p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19669063
4425220
Bestiary
210
Hydra
Hydras are multiheaded, foul-tempered serpentine beasts with voracious appetites,
widely feared for their regeneration abilities.
HYDRA
CREATURE 6
N
HUGE
BEAST
Perception +17; low-light vision, scent (imprecise) 30 feet
Skills Athletics +17, Stealth +12 (+15 in water)
Str +7, Dex +4, Con +5, Int –3, Wis +2, Cha –1
AC 23; all-around vision; Fort +15, Ref +12, Will +10
HP (body) 90, hydra regeneration
HP (head) 15, head regrowth; Immunities area damage; Weaknesses slashing 5
Attack of Opportunity Ǻȓ
Head Regrowth A hydra ordinarily has ﬁve heads. A creature can attempt to sever one of
the hydra’s heads by speciﬁcally targeting it and dealing damage equal to the head’s
Hit Points. A head that is not completely severed returns to full Hit Points at the end
of any creature’s turn.
A hydra can regrow a severed head using Hydra Regeneration. A creature can prevent
this regrowth by dealing acid or ﬁre damage to the stump, cauterizing it. Single-target
acid or ﬁre eﬀects need to be targeted at a speciﬁc stump, but eﬀects that deal splash
damage or aﬀect areas covering the hydra’s whole space cauterize all stumps if they
deal acid or ﬁre damage. If the attack that severs a head deals any acid or ﬁre damage,
the stump is cauterized instantly. If all ﬁve heads are cauterized, the hydra dies.
Hydra Regeneration The hydra has regeneration equal to 3 × the number of heads it has. If
a hydra’s body is missing any heads and the remaining stumps have not been cauterized,
the hydra attempts a DC 25 Fortitude save after it regains Hit Points from regeneration.
On a success, one uncauterized stump regrows two heads; on a critical success, two
uncauterized stumps regrow into two heads each. The hydra can never grow more
than double the number of heads it ordinarily has. The hydra’s regeneration only fully
deactivates if all its heads are severed and all stumps are cauterized, at which point it dies.
Multiple Opportunities A hydra gains an extra reaction per round for each of its heads
beyond the ﬁrst, which it can use only to make Attacks of Opportunity. It can’t use
more than 1 reaction on the same triggering action, even if a creature leaves several
squares within its reach, and the hydra must use a diﬀerent head for
each Attack of Opportunity it makes. Whenever one of the
hydra’s heads is severed, the hydra loses 1
of its extra reactions per round.
Speed 25 feet, swim 25 feet
Melee Ȱɵ fangs +16 (reach 10 feet), Damage
2d6+7 piercing
Focused
Assault
ʚʖ
The
hydra
attacks a single target with its heads,
overwhelming its foe with multiple
attacks and leaving almost nowhere to
dodge. The hydra Strikes with its fangs.
On a successful attack, the hydra deals damage from its
fangs Strike to the target, plus an additional 1d6 damage
for every head it has beyond the ﬁrst. Even on a failed
attack, the hydra deals the damage from one fangs Strike
to the target creature, though it still misses completely on
a critical failure. This counts toward the hydra’s multiple
attack penalty as a number of attacks equal to the number of
heads the hydra has.
Storm of Jaws ʚʖ The hydra makes a number of Strikes up to
its number of heads, each against a diﬀerent target. These attacks
count toward the hydra’s multiple attack penalty, but the multiple attack penalty
doesn’t increase until after the hydra makes all its attacks.
VARIANT HYDRAS
Scholars of bestial lore can
describe several hydra variations.
Though rare, hydras with more
than ﬁve heads live in very
isolated areas, sometimes guarding
incredibly powerful artifacts.
Explorers who have visited colder
swamps and frozen glaciers tell
tales of hydras with blue-tinged
scales that are immune to the
cold and can exhale clouds of icy
death. Similar stories describe
ﬁery hydras that breathe gouts of
ﬂame and swim in the molten lava
of active volcanoes.
p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19669063
4425220
