p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19669047
4425204
Bestiary
194
Griffon
Griffons are regal beasts revered as symbols of freedom and strength in many
cultures. They are physically striking, with the hindquarters of a lion and the
head, wings, and forelimbs of a great bird of prey—typically an eagle, but some
instead bear the features of a hawk, falcon, or even osprey or vulture. In rare
cases, the griffon’s hindquarters may resemble those of a different great cat,
such as a leopard or tiger. The variations seem to conform to the environment
in which the griffon lives—for instance, the especially rare griffons of northern
Avistan have the hindquarters of a Grungir lynx and the upper body of a snowy
owl—though this is not always the case. Some griffons lack wings altogether.
These wingless griffons, known as alces, result from a rare mutation. Among a
clutch of other griffons, the alce is typically considered the runt, so few of these
offshoots survive their ﬂedgling stage. Those alces that do make it to adulthood
tend to be tougher, more violent, and more aloof than most griffons.
Wild griffons rely on their powerful wings to hold them aloft and their keen
eyesight to spy out prey. The speed with which they plunge toward the ground
and grab up their victims is shocking. They may tear open victim’s ﬂesh with
their razor-sharp beaks, but usually just take their prey to a high, secluded
location where they can enjoy their feast without interruptions. On the ground,
they take cover and leap out to ambush prey, then ﬂy off with their prize. The
exception to this is when a griffon is hunting to feed its offspring, in which case
it will almost never purposefully bring a living creature back to its nest for fear
of endangering its chicks.
Skilled animal trainers long ago learned how to raise griffons as mounts
for military forces or powerful individuals. Such mounts are known for their
strength, bravery, and unfailing loyalty. They are among the smartest of animals
and possess a wisdom not normally afforded most animals; it is
thought that a griffon chooses its rider as much as a rider chooses
the griffon. The process of training a griffon to accept and carry
a rider in ﬂight is a long and expensive ordeal. Griffon trainers
charge rich sums for their services, and a ruler who can
boast of owning a stable of griffons is the subject of great
respect and envy.
GRIFFON
CREATURE 4
N
LARGE
ANIMAL
Perception +11; darkvision, scent (imprecise) 60 feet
Skills Acrobatics +11, Athletics +12, Survival +9
Str +4, Dex +3, Con +3, Int –4, Wis +1, Cha –1
AC 21; Fort +13, Ref +13, Will +7
HP 60
Speed 25 feet; ﬂy 60 feet
Melee Ȱɵ beak +14 (deadly 1d10), Damage 2d8+4
piercing
Melee Ȱɵ talon +14 (agile), Damage 2d6+4
piercing
Melee Ȱɵ wing +14 (reach 10 feet), Damage
2d6+4 bludgeoning
Flying Strafe ʚʖ The griﬀon Flies
up to its ﬂy Speed and makes two
talon Strikes at any point during that
movement. Each Strike must target a
diﬀerent creature. The attacks take the normal multiple
attack penalty.
Pounce Ȱɵ The griﬀon Strides and makes a talon Strike at the
end of that movement. If the griﬀon began this action hidden, it
remains hidden until after the attack.
THE FIRST GRIFFONS
The combination of two symbolic
and recognizable predators of
the land and air (the lion and
the eagle) is the result of devout
prayer among ancient cultures to
an equally ancient deity—a now
long-dead god named Curchanus,
who once held domain over the
beasts of the world. These ﬁrst
griﬀons were believed to be much
more intelligent and guardians
of the faith, but when Curchanus
was slain by Lamashtu,
the surviving griﬀons
regressed to little
more than beasts.
p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19669047
4425204
