p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19668908
4425065
A-C
55
Introduction
A-C
D
E-G
H-K
L-N
O-R
S-T
U-Z
Appendix
Cauthooj
These large, ﬂightless birds are deceptively agile, considering their long bodies and
awkward, hopping gait. Solitary predators, they use their hypnotic warbling song
to drive prey into a wild frenzy, manipulating them into attacking one another so
that the cauthooj can then feast on the remains.
Known to some scholars as the puppet master bird, and to others as the shrill
shrike, cauthoojs are widely reviled by most intelligent humanoids, in part because
the birds seem to prefer humanoids to other prey. Cauthooj sightings typically
lead to the creation of hunting parties to track the creature down before it can kill
again, with would-be hunters typically stufﬁng their ears full of wax in an effort
to avoid being affected by its cry. Those who have survived the creature’s song
report that the experience is uniquely unnerving, and almost all accounts agree
that there is no other sound as terrible.
While one might assume the cauthooj is a dumb animal, these creatures are in fact
quite a bit smarter than they look. Cauthoojs stalk the perimeter of remote settlements
in hopes of ﬁnding a lone traveler they can feast upon. These patient creatures will wait
in ambush as long as they must to sate their hunger. They
can even understand a few rudimentary words in Sylvan,
although they are incapable of clearly speaking themselves.
This doesn’t stop the cauthooj from attempting to mimic
the sounds it hears, but when it does so, its eerie primal
nature enhances the attempt, leading to the bird’s signature ability
to manipulate minds and encourage conﬂict, a trait the cauthooj is just
barely smart enough to understand—and enjoy.
CAUTHOOJ
CREATURE 12
N
MEDIUM
BEAST
Perception +22; thoughtsense (imprecise) 60 feet
Languages Sylvan (can’t speak any language)
Skills Athletics +24, Stealth +25
Str +6, Dex +4, Con +7, Int –3, Wis +2, Cha +0
Thoughtsense (divination, mental, occult) The cauthooj senses a
creatures mental essence at the listed ranged.
AC 33; Fort +25, Ref +20, Will +18
HP 215; Resistances sonic 15
Hop-Dodge Ǻȓ (move) Trigger The cauthooj is the target of a melee
Strike and is adjacent to another enemy that is also within the
reach of the melee Strike. Eﬀect The cauthooj nimbly hops aside,
redirecting the triggering Strike against the adjacent enemy. The
cauthooj Strides up to half its Speed, and this movement does not trigger reactions.
Speed 35 feet
Melee Ȱɵ beak +26 (agile, deadly 1d12, reach 10 feet), Damage 2d12+12 piercing
Staccato Strike Ȱɵ (mental, primal, sonic) With subtle alterations in the pitch and tone
of its song, the cauthooj directs one creature confused by its Warbling Song to make
a Strike. This works like other Strikes made by confused creatures, except that the
cauthooj chooses the target. If no target is in reach or range, or the creature is
unable to Strike for any other reason, this ability has no eﬀect.
Warbling Song ʚʖ (auditory, incapacitation, mental, primal) The cauthooj gives a
strange, ululating cry that causes nearby creatures to lash out violently and without
control. Each creature within a 120-foot emanation that can hear the cauthooj must
attempt a DC 32 Will save to resist the eﬀect.
Critical Success The target is unaﬀected and is temporarily immune for 1 minute.
Success The target is unaﬀected.
Failure The target is confused for 1 round.
Critical Failure The target is confused for 1 round and immediately attacks itself (in
the normal fashion for attacking oneself while confused). This Strike doesn’t give
the creature a ﬂat check to recover from the confusion.
CAUTHOOJ TREASURE
Like magpies, cauthoojs are
attracted to shiny baubles, and
they often pick up choice treasures
from their victims, depositing
these trinkets in large piles in their
lairs. Not all that glitters is gold,
however, and adventurers will ﬁnd
as many colorful bits of string,
broken mirror shards, and pieces
of costume jewelry as they ﬁnd
coins, magic weapons, and other
valuable treasures.
CAUTHOOJ LOCATIONS
Cauthoojs make their lairs in
small caverns, alcoves, and similar
out-of-the-way places, but claim
large stretches of territory and
wander many miles from their lairs
in search of food. They often hunt
in plains, prairies, and other large,
open expanses.
p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19668908
4425065
