p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19668981
4425138
Bestiary
128
Dragon Turtle
When sailors warn others of the terrible threats of the open sea, they seldom
forget to mention dragon turtles—immense aquatic dragons with rocky
shells similar to those of tortoises and ﬂippers powerful enough to overturn
hardy vessels. These fearsome creatures enjoy being considered as dangerous
as storms or natural disasters by seafaring folk. Dragon turtles delight in
amassing treasure, although most prefer to receive tribute from passing sailors
and often store their hoards in the shipwrecks of vessels once crewed by those
unwilling to surrender their valuables. Dragon turtles are solitary creatures
and hunt in regions encompassing a hundred square miles or more. Although
they normally eat large ﬁsh, they are omnivorous and also eat seaweed or even
foolhardy dragon hunters. Experienced sailors keep a keen eye out for dragon
turtles, preparing to ﬂee should one approach or offer it treasure in exchange
for safe passage.
Most dragon turtles are at least 20 feet wide and 50 feet long, although
some can grow substantially larger. These massive, ancient dragon turtles are
somnolent, and resemble rocky islands from a distance; their prodigious hoards
can be a source of truly ancient sea lore. Legends persist of truly immense
dragon turtles who spend centuries drifting on the surface of the ocean, far from
established shipping lanes or charted waters, with shells that serve as islands
capable of supporting entire ecosystems and even, some claim, small settlements
whose inhabitants know nothing of land that doesn’t drift across the sea.
DRAGON TURTLE
CREATURE 9
N
HUGE
AMPHIBIOUS
DRAGON
Perception +18; darkvision
Languages Aquan, Common, Draconic
Skills Athletics +21, Diplomacy +16, Intimidate +18, Stealth +13, Survival +17
Str +6, Dex +0, Con +4, Int +1, Wis +3, Cha +1
AC 29; Fort +19, Ref +15, Will +16
HP 140; Immunities ﬁre, paralyzed, sleep
Shell Block Ǻȓ Trigger A creature adjacent to the dragon turtle targets it with a melee
attack. Eﬀect The dragon turtle rolls its shell toward the triggering creature, gaining
a +2 circumstance bonus to its AC against the triggering attack.
Speed 20 feet, swim 30 feet
Melee jaws Ȱɵ +21 (reach 10 feet), Damage 2d12+9 piercing
Melee claw Ȱɵ +21 (agile), Damage 2d8+9 slashing
Breath Weapon ʚʖ (air, ﬁre, primal) The dragon turtle breathes
a massive blast of steam that deals 10d6 ﬁre damage to
creatures within a 50-foot
cone (DC 27 basic Reﬂex
save). This steam blast aﬀects
creatures within the water,
as well as outside. The
dragon turtle can’t use its
Breath Weapon again for 1d4
rounds or until it takes a critical
hit (whichever comes ﬁrst).
Capsize Ȱɵ (attack, move) The
dragon turtle tries to capsize an
adjacent aquatic vessel of its size
or smaller. The dragon turtle must
succeed at an Athletics check with
a DC of 30 or the pilot’s Sailing Lore
DC, whichever is higher.
Draconic Frenzy ʚʖ The dragon turtle makes two claw Strikes and one jaws
Strike in any order.
DRAGON TURTLE
TREASURE
Dragon turtles keep their
treasure in shipwrecks at the
bottom of the ocean. Their
hoards usually contain coins,
jewelry, and magic items that can
survive lengthy submersion.
DRAGON TURTLE
LOCATIONS
Although most dragon turtles hunt
in the open ocean, some live along
coastlines or even within large
inland lakes.
p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19668981
4425138
