p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19669126
4425283
O-R
273
Introduction
A-C
D
E-G
H-K
L-N
O-R
S-T
U-Z
Appendix
OTHER QUELAUNTS
Perhaps the most frightening tales
of quelaunts attribute them with
abilities beyond those detailed
here, suggesting that quelaunts
might be an entire category
of alien menace that has only
recently turned its awful attention
to humanity.
Quelaunt
This three-armed, three-legged monster has no discernible eyes, nose, ears, or mouth
or no visible means of ingesting food. Its limbs are distributed so evenly across its
body that it is all but impossible to tell which way the creature is oriented at any
given time. Few who witness the quelaunt linger on its alien looks for long though,
as the most pressing concern quickly becomes the invasion of their minds, as the
quelaunt sows doubt, sorrow, and rage. This monstrosity not only delights in the
negative emotions of its prey, but feeds on them, gaining strength and sustenance
from their dismay. For the quelaunt, no act is too terrible or cruel to inﬂict on its
victims, since the more a creature suffers, the more the quelaunt feasts.
Quelaunts are known to associate with other aberrant horrors, including brain
collectors and other creatures associated with the Dominion of the Black. However,
the more prevalent theory paints them as more alien—perhaps invasive beings from
another dimension of pure thought and feeling—and claims that in their natural
state they have no physical bodies at all. Few dare speculate further; the only known
autopsy of a quelaunt resulted in the researcher’s suicide just days afterward and all
the notes were mysteriously destroyed. Whatever secrets
there are to be unlocked in the anatomy of these bizarre
monsters are apparently important enough to warrant
great protection from quelaunts, even after death.
QUELAUNT
CREATURE 15
CE
LARGE
ABERRATION
Perception +29; tremorsense (imprecise) 60 feet
Languages Aklo (can't speak any language); telepathy
100 feet
Skills Deception +30, Intimidation +30, Occultism +27
Str +6, Dex +5, Con +4, Int +5, Wis +6, Cha +8
AC 36; Fort +27, Ref +26, Will +31 (+33 vs. emotion)
HP 305; Resistances mental 15
Speed 40 feet; air walk
Melee Ȱɵ claw +30 (agile, magical, reach 10 feet), Damage 3d8+12 slashing
Emotional Focus The quelaunt can cast the following cleric domain spells as 8th-level
occult innate spells at will without spending Focus Points: blind ambition (Core
Rulebook 389), captivating adoration (Core Rulebook 389), and delusional pride
(Core Rulebook 391).
Emotional Frenzy ̂ˬ The quelaunt casts up to three spells chosen from its
at-will innate spells and its emotional focus spells.
Feed on Emotion Ȱɵ (attack, emotion, incapacitation, mental); Frequency once per
round; Eﬀect The quelaunt feeds on the emotional unrest of a single creature
within 30 feet that’s under a harmful emotion eﬀect. The target must succeed
at a DC 37 Will save or take 4d10 mental damage and be stunned for
1 round. If the target fails its saving throw, the quelaunt regains the same
number of Hit Points and Feed on Emotion does not cost the quelaunt an
action, allowing it to use another action this turn.
Occult Innate Spells DC 39; 7th crushing despair (×3); 3rd fear (at will);
2nd hideous laughter; Constant (4th) air walk
Rapid Strikes ʚʖ (attack) The quelaunt makes three melee Strikes, each
against a diﬀerent target within reach. The multiple attack penalty
applies to each attack, but increases only after all the
attacks have been made.
Spiral of Despair Ȳ˓ (emotion, mental); Trigger A
creature fails a saving throw to resist one of the quelaunt's innate spells or emotional
focus spells. Eﬀect As the quelaunt invades the triggering creature's mind and plants
the seeds of negative emotions, it also strips away the target’s feelings of hope or
positivity. The quelaunt can immediately end a single emotion eﬀect
from which the triggering creature is beneﬁting.
p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19669126
4425283
