p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19668964
4425121
D
111
Introduction
A-C
D
E-G
H-K
L-N
O-R
S-T
U-Z
Appendix
DARALATHXYL
Known as the Sixth King of the Five
Kings Mountains, this red dragon
has lived in Droskar’s Crag for over
two millennia. Thankfully, this
powerful dragon slumbers for long
periods, but like a restless volcano,
he is due for a rampage.
Frightful Presence (aura, emotion, fear, mental) 90 feet, DC 37
Miasma (aura, poison); 20 feet. After the dragon uses its Breath Weapon, a cloud of
poison gas continues to emanate from its body for 1 round. Any creature that ends
its turn in the miasma takes 4d6 poison damage (DC 37 basic Fortitude save). Any
creature in the miasma is concealed and treats other creatures as concealed. The
dragon can see through this concealment.
Twisting Tail Ǻȓ As young green dragon.
Speed 50 feet, ﬂy 200 feet, swim 50 feet; trackless step, woodland stride
Melee Ȱɵ jaws +33 (magical, poison, reach 20 feet), Damage 3d12+15 piercing plus 4d4 poison
Melee Ȱɵ claw +33 (agile, magical, reach 15 feet), Damage 3d10+15 slashing
Melee Ȱɵ tail +31 (magical, reach 25 feet), Damage 3d10+13 bludgeoning
Melee Ȱɵ horn +31 (magical, reach 20 feet), Damage 2d10+13 piercing
Arcane Innate Spells DC 39; 6th dominate; 4th charm (at will), suggestion; 2nd
entangle (at will)
Breath Weapon ʚʖ (arcane, evocation, poison); The dragon breathes a toxic
cloud that deals 18d6 poison damage in a 60-foot cone (DC 37 basic
Fortitude save). The Breath Weapon also creates a miasma. The dragon
can’t use Breath Weapon again for 1d4 rounds.
Draconic Frenzy ʚʖ As young green dragon.
Draconic Momentum As young green dragon.
Trackless Step As adult green dragon.
Woodland Stride As young green dragon.
Red Dragon
The largest and most powerful of the chromatic dragons,
red dragons are a menace to civilizations everywhere, and
their strength is rivaled only by their arrogance. Red dragons
see themselves as regents and overlords of all dragonkind.
With their crowns of crimson spikes and their command of
blistering ﬂame, this is no haughty boast in their eyes—only
unquestioned fact.
Red dragons don’t deign to speak with lesser creatures; they
simply dominate and burn, enslaving weaker creatures to act as
servants and to look after their lairs while the dragons slumber
away. They take pleasure in dominating these creatures, and
they demand tribute from their supplicants. Those who anger or
disappoint end up eaten or reduced to ash. They command their
enslaved minions to constantly build onto their lairs, carving
out new tunnels and designing cunning traps that ensure the
dragon’s security.
Driven by their arrogance, red dragons are the most
likely of the chromatic dragons to ravage settlements.
They want the world to see them in their rightful
place as powerful tyrants, and they delight in
threatening all other creatures. They have no
qualms about bullying, manipulating, or killing
to complete their goals—or simply intimidating
others through a public display of brutality
and dominance.
As legendary as the brutishness of red dragons is the magniﬁcence
of their hoards of gold. Their lairs are often situated in dangerous
places, with volcanoes being a favorite spot, as they ﬁnd them
foreboding and the constant warmth is comfortable. No
matter the locale, red dragons sleep on a litter of coins and
other treasures, which they zealously guard. Sometimes,
the dragon’s internal heat causes these precious metals
to fuse together.
p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19668964
4425121
