p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19668918
4425075
A-C
65
Introduction
A-C
D
E-G
H-K
L-N
O-R
S-T
U-Z
Appendix
CLOAKER ALLIES
On the rare occasions that cloakers
associate with other creatures, they
tend to ally with those ulat‑kinis
(page 12) who are no longer the
thralls of the alghollthus and,
rarely, with deros (pages 84–85),
though they consider the latter
irrational and untrustworthy.
Cloakers never willingly associate
with alghollthus.
CLOAKER LOCATIONS
Cloakers isolate themselves within
the deeper parts of the Darklands
and are concentrated in Sekamina
and Orv. They tend to avoid Nar‑Voth
due to its proximity to the surface.
Cloaker
Weird and paranoid creatures that dwell in the Darklands, cloakers resemble
hideous, ﬂying manta rays. Crafty and careful hunters, their motivations, their
patterns of attack, and even their societies and history are often an inscrutable
jumble of contradicting reports, confused rumors, and terrifying accounts.
Like many of the stranger creatures of Golarion, cloakers were originally created
by the alghollthus, who bred them to spy on their Azlanti thralls. Upon the fall of
the Azlanti empire, the alghollthus cast out their cloaker creations, who, in turn,
ﬂed to the lower reaches of the Darklands. Amid the vaults and twisted corridors of
their new home, their attitudes—particularly regarding their apprehension toward
their former masters—changed dramatically. Suspicion became paranoia, egotism,
sadism, and much worse. Now, most cloakers lead solitary lives, stalking the
Darklands for easy prey and delving deeper into internal horrors. Their paranoia
is so great that they interact only rarely even with their own kind, encountering
another cloaker only brieﬂy to mate before ﬂitting back to isolation.
But there are exceptions. Every so often, a charismatic cloaker priest can call
together a dark cabal of these creatures and other Darklands denizens to worship
unspeakable ancient gods. These rare cloakers whip their acolytes and followers
into a frenzy of dark rituals and heinous acts. While these cults are depraved and
destructive, they rarely survive longer than their founder.
CLOAKER
CREATURE 5
CN
LARGE
ABERRATION
Perception +12; darkvision
Languages Aklo, Undercommon
Skills Deception +14 (+16 to Impersonate a cloak, sheet, or ray), Religion +12,
Stealth +14
Str +5, Dex +3, Con +4, Int +2, Wis +3, Cha +1
Shadow Shift Cloakers are concealed in dim light even to creatures with low-light vision
and darkvision.
AC 22; Fort +13, Ref +12, Will +12
HP 80
Speed 10 feet, ﬂy 30 feet
Melee Ȱɵ jaws +14, Damage 1d10+7 piercing
Melee Ȱɵ tail +14 (agile, reach 10 feet), Damage 2d6+7 slashing
Envelop Ȱɵ (attack, incapacitation) The cloaker makes an attack roll with
a +14 bonus against an adjacent creature’s Reﬂex DC. If it succeeds, it
envelops the target, who is restrained. Attacks that hit an enveloping
cloaker deal half their damage to the cloaker and half to the trapped
victim. The cloaker can’t Fly, and when it moves using its land
Speed it moves the enveloped creature with it. The cloaker can
make only jaws Strikes against the restrained creature but can
make tail Strikes against other creatures.
A creature that voluntarily puts on the cloaker becomes
engulfed automatically. A cloaker can engulf only Large or
smaller creatures, and no more than one creature at a time.
Infrasonic Moan ʚʖ (auditory, emotion, mental) The cloaker
lets out an infrasonic moan that has one of the eﬀects below.
A creature that succeeds at a DC 22 Will save is unaﬀected. Any
creature that attempts this save becomes temporarily immune for 1
hour. Because the moan is infrasonic, most humanoids don’t detect the source of
their plight if they aren’t already aware of the cloaker.
• 	 Fear (fear, incapacitation) Each creature within a 30-foot emanation becomes frightened
1 (or, on a critical failure, frightened 2 and ﬂeeing until the end of its next turn).
• 	 Nausea Each creature within a 30-foot emanation falls prone and become sickened 2.
• 	 Stupor The cloaker targets a single creature within 30 feet. The creature becomes
clumsy 1 and stupeﬁed 1 for 1 minute.
p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19668918
4425075
