p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19669087
4425244
Bestiary
234
MEDUSA INFILTRATORS
Rumors persist of disguised
medusas acting as prominent
members of criminal organizations
such as the Sczarni in Riddleport and
the Aspis Consortium in Port Peril,
and their kind is known to thrive
in metropolises including Absalom
and Katapesh. Because they are so
widespread, medusas resembling
humans of every major ethnicity can
be found in Avistan and Garund.
Medusa
Monstrous humanoids that resemble humans with snakes instead of hair,
medusas are best known for their petrifying gazes that—if lingered upon—can
permanently transform mortals to stone. Medusas are shrewd and manipulative
adversaries who collect and covet secrets, and who use threats and guile to
exploit the fears of weaker creatures. A medusa may seek out powerful magic
items, use divination magic to discover secret knowledge and unlock forbidden
power, or inﬁltrate a society to beguile inﬂuential politicians. Their ability to
worm their way into powerful organizations makes them natural leaders of
criminal outﬁts and thieves’ guilds, and their interest in magical phenomena
leads some to pursue careers as oracles who offer to help adventurers ﬁnd what
they seek—for a price. Of course, if wit and deception proves insufﬁcient, a
medusa can always simply turn rivals into ornate stone decorations with little
more than a glare.
Exceptionally agile and surprisingly hardy, a medusa rarely backs down from
a conﬂict even when cornered. Many adventurers who thought themselves
readied to resist the effects of a medusa’s gaze have nevertheless fallen to a
medusa, as these creatures are also often deadly archers able to riddle their
foes with venom-coated arrows from a distance. Still, a medusa may
barter for their life if no alternatives remain, and the secrets carried
by these powerful villains often make it more than worth sparing the
monster’s life.
MEDUSA
CREATURE 7
LE
MEDIUM
HUMANOID
Perception +16; darkvision
Languages Common
Skills Deception +16, Diplomacy +14, Stealth +16
Str +2, Dex +5, Con +4, Int +2, Wis +1, Cha +2
Items +1 composite shortbow (60 arrows), shortsword
AC 25, all-around vision; Fort +15, Ref +16, Will +14
HP 105
Petrifying Gaze (arcane, aura, transmutation, visual) 30 feet. When a creature
ends its turn in the aura, it must attempt a DC 25 Fortitude save. If the
creature fails, it becomes slowed 1 for 1 minute. The medusa can
deactivate or activate this aura by using a single action, which
has the concentrate trait.
Biting Snakes Ǻȓ Trigger A creature ends its turn
adjacent to the medusa. Eﬀect The medusa makes
a snake fangs Strike against the creature.
Speed 25 feet
Melee Ȱɵ shortsword +18 (agile, ﬁnesse, versatile S), Damage 1d6+8 piercing plus
serpent venom
Melee Ȱɵ snake fangs +16 (agile, ﬁnesse), Damage 1d4+8 piercing plus
serpent venom
Ranged Ȱɵ composite shortbow +19 (deadly 1d10, magical, propulsive, range
increment 60 feet, reload 0), Damage 1d6+7 piercing plus serpent venom
Focus Gaze Ȱɵ (arcane, concentrate, incapacitation, transmutation,
visual) The medusa ﬁxes their glare at a creature they can see within
30 feet. The target must immediately attempt a Fortitude save against
the medusa's petrifying gaze. If the creature was already slowed by
petrifying gaze before attempting its save, a failed save causes it to be
petriﬁed permanently. After attempting its save, the creature is then
temporarily immune until the start of the medusa's next turn.
Serpent Venom (poison); Saving Throw DC 25 Fortitude; Maximum
Duration 6 rounds; Stage 1 1d6 poison damage and enfeebled 1 (1
round); Stage 2 2d6 poison damage and enfeebled 2 (1 round)
p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19669087
4425244
