p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19669011
4425168
Bestiary
158
FAILED FLESHWARPS
Not every ﬂeshwarp emerges
from its vat capable of survival.
Many perish within minutes, as
organs fundamental for life simply
fail or collapse in on themselves.
Fleshwarpers can usually recycle
failed ﬂeshwarps back into the mix
quickly enough, but now and then,
remnants known as ﬂeshdregs are
stable enough to live pain-wracked
lives of their own. These foul
creatures often infest ﬂeshwarper
holdings, like rats or other vermin
do in less awful locations.
Fleshwarp
Some creatures, notably drow, are not happy with merely killing their enemies.
They revel in the total degradation of their foes through the horrifying
transformative technique known as ﬂeshwarping. Though the ﬂeshwarping
process was not created by the drow, many believe they perfected it. The drow
torture their enemies in vats of churning magical reagents, reshaping their ﬂesh
and psyche alike into horrid and monstrous things. The reconstitution of ﬂesh
results in countless variations of ﬂeshwarps, and the following are just a couple
of examples of these horrors.
Grothlut
Sluglike abominations, grothluts are ﬂeshwarps that were once humans. While
their head and torsos are vaguely human, their arms are rubbery and move
awkwardly at their sides. Wretched creatures, they moan piteously when other
creatures are near, perhaps as the last remnants of their shattered human
consciousness pleads to be free from their horrid warped form.
Many ﬂeshwarpers consider the grothlut to be a failure of a creation, as the
transformation all but stamps out the human consciousness. Others disagree,
arguing that warping the creature’s mind makes it all the more useful, since
its stupidity makes it pliable and easy to herd. Drow typically use grothluts
as guardians that slowly patrol the edges of their enclaves. Once in position,
grothluts can be used as crude shock troops, unleashed to soften enemy forces
before more-valuable warriors wade in and cut down the enemies who have been
nauseated by the grothluts’ exploded organs and ﬂesh.
GROTHLUT
CREATURE 3
N
MEDIUM
ABERRATION
MINDLESS
Perception +5; darkvision
Skills Athletics +11
Str +4, Dex –2, Con +4, Int –5, Wis +0, Cha –3
AC 19; Fort +11, Ref +5, Will +7
HP 50; Immunities acid, mental
Disgusting Demise (acid, poison) When the grothlut is reduced to 0 Hit Points, its
digestive organs rupture, unleashing alchemical acid and poison upon all creatures in
a 30-foot emanation. Each creature in the area must succeed at a DC 19 Fortitude save
or take 2d6 acid damage and become sickened 1 (double damage
and sickened 2 on a critical failure).
Piteous Moan (aura, auditory, emotion, mental, occult) 60 feet.
Each non-grothlut creature that enters or starts its turn within
the area must succeed at a DC 17 Will saving throw
or become sickened 1 (sickened 2 on a critical
failure). The creature then becomes temporarily
immune for 1 minute. The grothlut can activate
or deactivate the aura by using a single
free action that has the concentrate trait. A
grothlut usually does not begin moaning until it
senses the presence of a non-grothlut creature,
and it usually stops once it doesn’t sense
any more such creatures.
Speed 20 feet
Melee Ȱɵ claw +11 (agile),
Damage 1d10+8 slashing
Ranged Ȱɵ digestive spew
+7 (acid, range increment
15 feet, splash), Damage
2d6 acid damage plus
1d6 splash acid damage
p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19669011
4425168
