p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19668864
4425021
A-C
11
Introduction
A-C
D
E-G
H-K
L-N
O-R
S-T
U-Z
Appendix
AC 45; Fort +32, Ref +31, Will +37; +1 status to all saves vs. magic
HP 335, regeneration 20 (deactivated by chaotic); Immunities negative, positive;
Weaknesses chaotic 20
Reality Twist Ǻȓ Trigger The pleroma critically fails the saving throw. Eﬀect The critical
failure becomes a normal failure.
Speed ﬂy 40 feet; freedom of movement
Melee Ȱɵ energy touch (agile, lawful, magical) +36, Damage 5d8+18 positive or negative
damage plus 1d6 lawful
Ranged Ȱɵ Sphere of Oblivion +37 (magical), Eﬀect see Sphere of Oblivion
Divine Innate Spells DC 47, attack +37; 10th alter reality; 9th banishment, blade barrier,
disjunction, overwhelming presence; 8th disintegrate (×2), unrelenting observation;
7th plane shift, retrocognition; 5th creation (at will); 4th create food (at will), shape
stone (at will); 3rd hypercognition (at will); 2nd detect alignment (at will), shape
wood (at will); 1st create water (at will); Constant (8th) true seeing; (4th) freedom
of movement
Energy Touch A pleroma’s touch deals its choice of positive or negative damage, but
neither energy can be used to heal a creature.
Sphere of Creation ʚʖ (incapacitation, magical) Three
times per day, a pleroma can manifest a 2-foot-
diameter sphere of white energy that hovers
above its left hand. By using a single action,
which has the concentrate trait, the pleroma can
cause the sphere to ﬂy 10 feet. The sphere can
move in any direction, ignoring diﬃcult terrain,
but it can’t move farther than 300 feet away from
the pleroma. Wherever the sphere travels, it leaves
behind a 5-foot-wide path of new matter, creating either
new terrain (the pleroma’s choice of normal, diﬃcult, or greater
diﬃcult terrain) or a 5-foot-square solid barrier of a single natural
substance (such as clay, wood, or stone). The sphere can enter the
space of a creature; when it does, the creature must succeed at a DC
43 Fortitude save or be absorbed into the sphere. On a successful
save, the creature is pushed to a space of the GM’s choice away
from the sphere. Those who fail take 20d6 positive damage (even
if they are living) and are pushed away as a success. Those who
critically fail, or are reduced to 0 HP by the damage from a failure,
become one with the new material and can be restored only via a
10th-level spell. A pleroma can have only one Sphere of Creation
in existence at a time, and the sphere automatically vanishes in a
ﬂash of blinding light after 1d4 minutes. All creatures within 30
feet of the sphere of creation when it vanishes must succeed at
a DC 43 Fortitude save or be permanently blinded.
Sphere of Oblivion ʚʖ (incapacitation, magical) Three times
per day, a pleroma can manifest a 2-foot-diameter sphere of
complete and utter darkness that hovers above its right
hand. It can move and control the sphere in the same
manner as its Sphere of Creation. The sphere is an
empty void that lasts for 1 minute before collapsing
in on itself and winking out of existence. Once
manifested, the sphere can be used as a ranged
attack, but it blinks out of existence immediately after that attack is resolved. Any
unattended object that touches the void is sucked in and completely destroyed.
Larger objects (such as ships or buildings) are destroyed at a rate of one 10-foot cube
per round of contact. The sphere can enter the space of a creature, with eﬀects similar
to the Sphere of Creation except that it deals negative damage (even to undead) on
a failure and annihilates rather than incorporating the creature into material. Such a
destroyed creature can be restored only by a 10th-level spell.
OTHER AEONS
Aeons are among the least
understood of the Great Beyond’s
immortal creatures, and they
have a wide range of powers
and abilities. Far more aeons
exist than those presented here,
including guardians of time like the
four-armed bythos and the weirdly
symmetrical theletos, which
moderates the duality between
freedom and fate.
p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19668864
4425021
