p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19669008
4425165
E-G
155
Introduction
A-C
D
E-G
H-K
L-N
O-R
S-T
U-Z
Appendix
ETHER SPIDER FOES
The Ethereal Plane is a sparsely
populated realm in comparison
to most, used more for traveling
than dwelling. Yet the deep mists
here conceal denizens such as
monstrous parasitic beings that
use humanoids as incubators for
eggs and ﬁends born from the
raw fears of mortal life, and ether
spiders are ever vigilant against
those foes’ machinations.
Ether Spider
Ether spiders are deadly predators from the Ethereal Plane resembling giant
arachnids. Rather than building webs of silk, ether spiders shape the raw
essence of the Ethereal Plane, weaving it in complex patterns that drift through
the misty void. From these ethereal nests, whole families of ether spiders can
scout the adjacent Material Plane, watching for easy prey in dark or remote
corners of the land of mortals. Once an ether spider has spotted a meal, it
anchors its nest and waits on the Ethereal Plane for its prey to draw near. As
soon as its victim is within reach, the ether spider shifts to the Material Plane,
clamps its fangs onto its prey, then shifts back to the Ethereal Plane to wait as
its venom works through the creature’s system. Ether spiders move between
the planes with ease, making them extremely dangerous to those who cannot
see or attack ethereal enemies.
Ether spiders are not mindless or evil—they are simply hungry. If a prospective
meal can sate an ether spider’s incredible appetite through other means, they
might be able to bargain for their life. Ether spiders are especially interested in
items, information, or allies who can help them against their enemies.
As many as half a dozen ether spiders might dwell in the same ether web.
Although ether spiders enjoy one another’s company, they don’t form the same
bonds as most humanoids, and they are more likely to feast on the
corpse of a fallen sibling than save one from certain doom.
Ether spiders dwell in vast nests adrift in the Ghost World,
where they are more likely to let down their guard. Travelers who
ﬁnd a ﬂoating ether spider commune should have an easier time of
making peaceful contact to trade with or even befriend these strange
arachnids. The nests drift on metaphysical currents and are rarely
seen in the same vicinity twice. Sometimes a point of interest on the
neighboring Material Plane compels them to tether their nest to an area,
creating a semipermanent home, and those who learn its location can
return to it repeatedly.
ETHER SPIDER
CREATURE 5
N
LARGE
BEAST
ETHEREAL
Perception +12; darkvision
Languages Aklo
Skills Athletics +12, Stealth +15
Str +5, Dex +4, Con +3, Int –2, Wis +1, Cha +7
AC 21; Fort +12, Ref +15, Will +10
HP 75
Speed 40 feet, climb 20 feet
Melee Ȱɵ fangs +15 (magical), Damage 1d10+7 piercing plus ether spider venom and Grab
Ranged Ȱɵ web +14 (magical, range increment 30 feet); Eﬀect ethereal web trap
Ether Spider Venom (poison); Saving Throw DC 22 Fortitude; Maximum Duration
6 rounds; Stage 1 1d6 poison damage and clumsy 1 (1 round); Stage 2 2d6 poison
damage, clumsy 2 and slowed 1 (1 round); Stage 3 3d6 poison damage, clumsy 3 and
slowed 2 (1 round)
Ethereal Step Ȱɵ The ether spider shifts to either the Ethereal Plane or the Material
Plane. The ether spider can remain on the Ethereal Plane indeﬁnitely without ill
eﬀect. While there, it can see clearly onto the Material Plane with a range of 60
feet. On its ﬁrst round in an encounter, the ether spider can use this ability once as
a free action.
Ethereal Web Trap A creature hit by the ether spider’s web attack is immobilized and
stuck to the nearest surface (Escape DC 22).
Web Burst ʚʖ Frequency once per day; Eﬀect The ether spider ﬂings a gout of stored
webs in a 30-foot cone. These webs can pass between the Material Plane and the
Ethereal Plane. Each creature in the area is immobilized, as ethereal web trap, unless
it succeeds at a DC 22 Reﬂex save.
p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19669008
4425165
