p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19668866
4425023
A-C
13
Introduction
A-C
D
E-G
H-K
L-N
O-R
S-T
U-Z
Appendix
Faceless Stalker (Ugothol)
Among the subtler of the alghollthu creations were the ugothols—also known as
faceless stalkers. These twisted beings used shapeshifting to inﬁltrate settlements
and assassinate key targets. They sowed discord and replaced leaders, causing
unwanted organizations to implode and bothersome people to lose face and
eventually disappear. Entirely terrestrial in nature, ugothols can easily extend
alghollthu plots above the waves for extended periods of time, giving their
aquatic masters enhanced reach into these unpleasantly dry realms. Today,
most faceless stalkers—like the less dangerous ulat-kinis—pursue programmed
goals without the guidance of alghollthu rule. Faceless stalkers prefer to live
as close to the sea coast as possible, although they are not aquatic creatures
themselves. Most dwell in tiny tribes in marshlands. Others live in the sewers
of coastal towns.
By instinct, faceless stalkers seek to sow discord. They replace leaders in
humanoid societies, then guide inﬁltrated settlements down paths of destruction.
Among humanoids who have wicked tendencies, a faceless stalker can become
a prominent trailblazer, leading a group to new heights of depravity and
violence. Inevitably, however, faceless stalker inﬁltrators lead their followers
to ruin. The ugothol eventually moves on—either because its true nature
is about to be discovered, or because it has despoiled or devastated all
local resources.
An ugothol gains nourishment only through its long, bloodsucking
tongue. Their prey bear distinctive triple puncture wounds near major
arteries. Corpses bearing such marks are typically the ﬁrst clues found
to uncover a faceless stalker’s presence, though sometimes they are
overlooked as marks belonging to a vampire or chupacabra.
FACELESS STALKER
CREATURE 4
CE
MEDIUM
ABERRATION
Perception +10; darkvision
Languages Alghollthu, Aquan, Common; tongues
Skills Acrobatics +12, Athletics +12, Deception +13, Stealth +13,
Thievery +9
Str +4, Dex +3, Con +3, Int +0, Wis +2, Cha +3
Items longsword, studded leather
AC 21; Fort +9, Ref +9, Will +12; +2 status to all saves vs. auditory
and visual
HP 60; Resistances bludgeoning 5
Speed 25 feet
Melee Ȱɵ longsword +14 (versatile P), Damage 1d8+6 slashing
Melee Ȱɵ claw +12 (agile), Damage 2d6+6 slashing plus Grab
Occult Innate Spells DC 19; Constant (5th) tongues
Assume Form (concentrate, occult, polymorph, transmutation) The
faceless stalker spends 10 minutes reshaping its appearance to
take on the shape of any Small or Medium humanoid. It gains a +4
circumstance bonus to Deception checks to pass as that creature.
Blood Nourishment Ȱɵ The faceless stalker uses its three-pronged tongue to drink
the blood of an adjacent restrained or unconscious creature. The creature gains
drained 1.
Compression When the faceless stalker successfully Squeezes, it moves through
the tight space at full speed. Narrow conﬁnes are not diﬃcult terrain for a
faceless stalker.
Revert Form Ȳ˓ Requirements The faceless stalker is in an assumed form. Eﬀect The
faceless stalker resumes its true form. Until the start of its next turn, it gains a +2
status bonus to attack rolls, damage rolls, saving throws, and skill checks.
Sneak Attack The faceless stalker deals 1d6 extra precision damage to
ﬂat-footed creatures.
ANCIENT INFLUENCES
The veiled masters inﬂuenced the
ancient Azlanti, and it was they who
invoked the apocalypse of Earthfall
to destroy Azlant when humanity
grew too prideful. That this act also
called down the magical Starstone,
an artifact capable of transforming
mortals into gods, was an ironic
turn of events considering the
alghollthus’ intolerance for faith.
p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19668866
4425023
