p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19669182
4425339
U-Z
329
Introduction
A-C
D
E-G
H-K
L-N
O-R
S-T
U-Z
Appendix
RETAINING HUMANITY
Werecreatures are notorious for
their murderous rampages in the
deep of the night—violence that is
often at odds with the aﬄicted’s
true nature. Even an honorable
town guard or priest could be
a murderous werewolf without
realizing it, for the werecreature’s
curse leaves the aﬄicted with
no memory of their nocturnal
murder sprees.
Jaws The creature gains a jaws Strike (an unarmed attack that deals piercing damage)
that inﬂicts its curse of the werecreature. If it had any non-agile attacks, the damage
dealt by its jaws should be roughly the same as the damage dealt by those attacks. If
it had only agile attacks, its jaws should deal one-third more damage.
Change Shape Ȱɵ (concentrate, polymorph, primal, transmutation) The werecreature
changes into its humanoid, hybrid, or animal shape. Each shape has a speciﬁc,
persistent appearance. A true werecreature’s natural form is its hybrid shape. In
humanoid shape, the werecreature uses its original humanoid size, loses its jaws and
claws Strikes, and gains a melee ﬁst Strike that deals bludgeoning damage equal to
the slashing damage dealt by its claw. In animal shape, its Speed and size change to
that of the animal, it gains any special Strike eﬀects of the animal that it didn’t already
have (such as Grab), and it loses its weapon Strikes.
Curse of the Werecreature (curse, necromancy, primal) This curse aﬀects only humanoids.
Saving Throw Fortitude DC is the standard DC for the werecreature’s new level – 1. On
each full moon, the cursed creature must succeed at another Fortitude save or turn into
the same kind of werecreature until dawn. The creature is under the GM’s control and
goes on a rampage for half the night before falling unconscious until dawn.
Moon Frenzy (polymorph, primal, transmutation) When a full moon appears in the
night sky, the werecreature must enter hybrid form, can’t Change Shape thereafter,
becomes one size larger, increases its reach by 5 feet, and increases the damage of
its jaws by 2. When the moon sets or the sun rises, the werecreature
returns to humanoid form and is fatigued for 2d4 hours.
Wererat
Wererats tend to be selﬁshly opportunistic, avaricious, and
paranoid as a result of their curse. Because wererats
typically dwell in metropolitan areas where they can
hide in plain sight, practically any city-goer could be a
wererat in disguise—from the quiet shopkeep to the
city’s criminal mastermind. The bustle of crowds and
countless rat-holes make ghettos and shantytowns
favored homes for wererats, especially since in these
poorer districts the wererat can kill out of greed or
fear with little chance of the authorities noticing. In
some cities, wererats operate entire thieves’ guilds
or organized crime rings, and membership requires
willfully submitting to the wererat’s cursed bite. Wererats look very
similar to ratfolk when in hybrid form, apart from potential
differences in size, but ratfolk have no love for these monsters.
WERERAT
CREATURE 2
LE
MEDIUM
BEAST
HUMAN
HUMANOID
WERECREATURE
Perception +8; low-light vision, scent (imprecise) 30 feet
Languages Common; rat empathy
Skills Acrobatics +8 Athletics +6 (+8 to Climb or Swim), Deception
+5, Society +4, Stealth +8
Str +2, Dex +4, Con +2, Int +0, Wis +2, Cha +1
Items hand crossbow (20 bolts), leather armor, shortsword
Rat Empathy (divination, primal) The wererat can communicate
with rodents.
AC 19; Fort +6, Ref +10, Will +8
HP 45; Weaknesses silver 5
Nimble Dodge Ǻȓ Trigger The wererat is targeted with
a melee or ranged attack by an attacker it can see.
Eﬀect The wererat gains a +2 circumstance bonus to
AC against the triggering attack.
Speed 25 feet
p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19669182
4425339
