p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19669068
4425225
H-K
215
Introduction
A-C
D
E-G
H-K
L-N
O-R
S-T
U-Z
Appendix
KROOTH GUTS
While krooth lairs can contain
valuables in the form of gear
and magic items found on dead
adventurers, the strange enzymes
and other chemicals found in the
internal organs of male krooths,
particularly the liver, pancreas,
and kidneys, are of great value
to alchemists who seek to
concoct elixirs and potions with
transmutation eﬀects. A single
male krooth’s organs, properly
harvested and preserved, can be
sold to an interested alchemist.
Krooth
Krooths, sometimes called crocodile eaters, are fast and vicious hunters of bogs and
wetlands. While they are known to hunt and eat crocodiles, alligators, and virtually
any creature with ﬂesh, their favorite prey are lizardfolk, boggards, and dinosaurs.
Krooths are found alone or in packs. Male krooths are solitary and territorial
creatures—ﬁerce, bold, and bloodthirsty. Female krooths, on the other hand, are
likely to shy away from potential predators but swiftly turn violent when their
brood is threatened. Because their offspring are so vulnerable, female krooths
gather in packs to raise their young, sending smaller groups to hunt for food
while the rest of the pack watches the brood. Krooths mate only once every 4
or 5 years, and the mating process is a curiously gruesome spectacle. An entire
pack of females will hunt as a group for a lone male krooth, claiming their prize
in an orgiastic frenzy that can last for an entire day and night. After the mating
has ﬁnished, the females slay their mate and devour his nutrient-rich ﬂesh, and
his organs in particular. These organs contain a unique chemical compound vital
to gestation. Many naturalists will pay handsomely for the fresh remains of a
male krooth so they can study the strange properties of the creature’s blood and
organs. In addition, krooths have poisonous, hollow teeth. When these creatures
bite their prey, a tooth breaks off and causes the victim to bleed profusely as their
blood pours through the hollow tooth.
Whether male or female, krooths seem to be repelled by goblinoid ﬂesh,
especially that of bugbears. This doesn’t mean krooths won’t kill goblinoids,
especially those threatening their young, but they typically do so using only
their claws and tails, and they take great care to clean themselves thoroughly
after such a killing.
KROOTH
CREATURE 8
N
LARGE
AMPHIBIOUS
ANIMAL
Perception +16; low-light vision, scent (imprecise) 60 feet
Skills Athletics +18, Stealth +18 (+20 in water), Survival +17 (+20 to Track a bleeding
creature)
Str +6, Dex +3, Con +6, Int –4, Wis +2, Cha +0
AC 26; Fort +20, Ref +17, Will +14, +4 status to all saves vs. fear
HP 150
Attack of Opportunity Ǻȓ Tail only.
Pain Frenzy Whenever the krooth is damaged by a critical hit, it gains a +2 status bonus
to attack and damage rolls until the end of its next turn. It can’t use reactions while
this frenzy lasts.
Speed 40 feet, swim 30 feet
Melee Ȱɵ jaws +20 (deadly 1d10, poison, reach 10 feet), Damage 2d12+9 piercing plus
Poison Tooth
Melee Ȱɵ claw +20 (agile), Damage 2d8+9 slashing
Melee Ȱɵ tail +20 (reach 15 feet), Damage 2d8+9 piercing
Aquatic Ambush Ȱɵ
Poison Tooth Ȱɵ (poison); Requirements The krooth
damaged a creature with its jaws on its most recent
action this turn. Effect The krooth snaps off one of
its teeth in the creature it hit. The creature takes
1d6 persistent bleed damage and is drained 1.
Neither can be healed while the tooth remains.
Removing the tooth safely requires a successful
DC 26 check to Administer First Aid. Instead of
ending bleeding or stabilizing,
this removes the drained
condition, but it doesn’t
automatically end the
bleed damage.
p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19669068
4425225
