p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19669185
4425342
Bestiary
332
OTHER WIGHTS
In addition to the wight presented
here, many other varieties exist.
For example, the covetous cairn
wight—ritually created to eternally
guard its own wealth or that of its
master—haunts barrows, ossuaries,
and mausoleums. Unlike other
wights, cairn wights can channel
their life-draining touch through
their melee weapons.
Wight
Wights are undead humanoids that, much like wraiths, can drain the life from
living creatures with but a touch. They arise as a result of necromantic rituals,
especially violent deaths, or the sheer malevolent will of the deceased.
As many types of wights exist as types of people from which they might be
created. Hulking brutes, skittering sneaks, and cunning tinkers all make for
different wights with different niches to ﬁll. Environment, too, plays a part in
determining a wight’s special abilities and defenses. Frost wights, for instances,
can be found in the parts of the world where exposure is a common end.
Regardless, wights typically haunt burial grounds, catacombs, or other places
of the dead. But their hunger is targeted toward the living—those individuals
who remind them of the shackles of mortality and whom they feel compelled
to “free” to the state of undeath.
A single wight can wreak a lot of havoc if it is compelled to rise from its tomb.
Because creatures slain by wights become wights as well, all it takes is a single
wight and a handful of unlucky graveyard visitors to create a veritable horde
of these undead. Thus, canny
priests and adventurers know
that the best solution to a
wight problem is swift and
total eradication. Care
must be taken, though,
to destroy wight spawn
before attempting to destroy
the parent wight, for spawn without a master
gain the ability to create spawn of their own.
Durable and sustained as they are by negative energy,
wights can last in harsh environments without decaying the
way some lesser undead do. They might dwell in high mountain
passes, sealed passageways, or submerged in bogs or lakes for decades
or even centuries before the passage of an unsuspecting traveler rouses
them from their rest.
WIGHT
CREATURE 3
LE
MEDIUM
UNDEAD
WIGHT
Perception +10; darkvision
Languages Common, Necril
Skills Athletics +11, Intimidation +9, Stealth +6
Str +4, Dex +1, Con +4, Int +0, Wis +3, Cha +2
AC 18; Fort +11, Ref +6, Will +10
HP 50, negative healing; Immunities death eﬀects, disease, paralyze, poison,
unconscious
Final Spite Ǻȓ Trigger The wight is reduced to 0 Hit Points. Eﬀect The wight makes
a Strike before being destroyed. It doesn’t gain any temporary HP from drain life
on this Strike.
Speed 25 feet
Melee Ȱɵ claw +12, Damage 1d6+4 slashing plus drain life
Drain Life (divine, necromancy) When the wight damages a living creature with its
claw Strike, the wight gains 3 temporary Hit Points and the creature must succeed
at a DC 17 Fortitude save or become drained 1. Further damage dealt by the wraith
increases the amount of drain by 1 on a failed save to a maximum of drained 4.
Wight Spawn (divine, necromancy) A living humanoid slain by a wight’s claw Strike rises
as a wight after 1d4 rounds. This wight spawn is under the command of the wight
that killed it. It doesn’t have Drain Life or Wight Spawn and becomes clumsy 2 for as
long as it is a wight spawn. If the creator of the wight spawn dies, the wight spawn
becomes a full-ﬂedged, autonomous wight; it regains its free will, gains Drain Life and
Wight Spawn, and is no longer clumsy.
p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19669185
4425342
