p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19669019
4425176
Bestiary
166
CUSTOM GHOSTS
Ghosts work best in adventures
when used sparingly. As they are
remnants of a past life and retain
their intelligence, ghosts can
convey long-lost information or
serve as a way to inform the PCs
of crucial story elements. In this
way, a ghost in an adventure can
provide a clue or even a complete
history of a site or event. Unlike
most other undead, ghosts can
retain the alignment they had in
life, but regardless they should
remain tragic and frightening
ﬁgures in play.
Ghost
When some mortals die through tragic circumstances or without closure, they can
linger on in the world. These anguished souls haunt a locale signiﬁcant to them in
life, constantly trying to right their perceived wrong or wrongdoings.
Creating a Ghost
While it’s best to create custom ghosts to ﬁll an adventure’s speciﬁc needs, you
can also use the following guidelines to turn existing living creatures into ghosts.
First, increase the creature’s level by 2 and change its statistics as follows.
•	 Increase AC, saves, Perception, DCs, and skill modiﬁers by 2. Increase
the most appropriate melee attack modiﬁer by 4 to become ghostly hand
(described below), and other attack modiﬁers by 2.
•	 A ghost has a Strength modiﬁer of –5 and a Constitution modiﬁer of +0.
•	 Do not modify the ghost’s Hit Points due to its new level.
GHOST ABILITIES
A ghost gains the incorporeal, spirit, and undead traits. Many become evil. If the
base creature has any abilities or traits that come from it being a living, corporeal
creature, it loses them. You might also need to adjust some abilities that conﬂict
with the theme of a ghost. All ghosts gain the following abilities.
Darkvision
Site Bound A typical ghost can stray only a short distance from where it was killed or the
place it haunts. A typical limit is 120 feet. Some ghosts are instead bound to a room,
building, item, or creature that was special to it rather than a location.
Negative Healing
Rejuvenation (divine, necromancy) When a ghost is destroyed, it re-forms after 2d4 days
within the location it’s bound to, fully healed. A ghost can be permanently destroyed
only if someone determines the reason for its existence and sets right whatever
prevents the spirit from resting.
Immunities death eﬀects, disease, paralyzed, poison, precision, unconscious
Resistances all damage 5 (except force, ghost touch, or positive; double resistance to
non-magical). This resistance increases to 10 at 9th level and 15 at 16th level.
Fly Speed equal to its Speed
Ghostly Hand All ghosts have a ghostly hand unarmed attack that deals negative
damage. It typically has the agile, ﬁnesse, and magical traits. Some ghosts wield
ghostly memories of weapons they held in life, but the eﬀect is the same.
SPECIaL ABILITIES
Select one or two of the following abilities, or potentially three if the ghost is
9th level or higher. These abilities should relate to the ghost’s death or its history.
You can also create new abilities or adapt those from monsters or classes to ﬁt the
theme. For DCs, use 2 + the DC of the ghost’s level (Core Rulebook 503).
Corrupting Gaze ʚʖ The ghost stares at a creature it can see within 30 feet. The target
takes 1d6 negative damage + 1d6 per 2 levels with a basic Will save. A creature that
fails its save is also stupeﬁed 1 for 1 minute.
Draining Touch ʚʖ With a touch, the ghost attempts to drain a living creatureʼs life
force. It makes a ghostly hand Strike but deals no damage on a hit. Instead, the target
becomes drained 1 for 1 day, and the ghost regains HP equal to half its own level.
Frightful Moan ʚʖ (auditory, divine, emotion, enchantment, fear, mental) The ghost
laments its fate, forcing each living creature within 30 feet to attempt a Will save.
On a failure, a creature becomes frightened 2 (or frightened 3 on a critical failure).
On a success, a creature is temporarily immune to this ghost’s frightful moan for
1 minute.
Inhabit Object Ȱɵ The ghost possesses an object of size Large or smaller within 20 feet,
making it an animated object (pages 20–21). This animated object’s level can be no
higher than the ghost’s level – 2. If the target object is being held by a creature, the
bearer can attempt a Will save to prevent the possession. This possession ends when
p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19669019
4425176
