p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19669196
4425353
343
Introduction
A-C
D
E-G
H-K
L-N
O-R
S-T
U-Z
Appendix
also grant additional spells to any coven they join. A coven
can also cast the control weather ritual (Core Rulebook 411),
with a DC of 23 instead of the standard DC.
If a coven member leaving the coven or the death of a
coven member brings the coven below three members,
the remaining members keep their elite adjustments for
24 hours, but without enough members to contribute the
necessary actions, they can’t cast coven spells.
Darkvision A monster with darkvision can see perfectly well
in areas of darkness and dim light, though such vision is in
black and white only. Some forms of magical darkness, such
as a 4th-level darkness spell, block normal darkvision. A
monster with greater darkvision, however, can see through
even these forms of magical darkness.
Disease When a creature is exposed to a monster’s disease, it
attempts a Fortitude save or succumbs to the disease. The
level of a disease is the level of the monster inﬂicting the
disease. The disease follows the rules for aﬄictions found
on page 457 of the Pathﬁnder Core Rulebook.
Engulf ʚʖ The monster Strides up to double its Speed and can
move through the spaces of any creatures in its path. Any
creature of the monster’s size or smaller whose space the
monster moves through can attempt a Reﬂex save with the
listed DC to avoid being engulfed. A creature unable to act
automatically critically fails this save. If a creature succeeds
at its save, it can choose to be either pushed aside (out of the
monster’s path) or pushed in front of the monster to the end of
the monster’s movement. The monster can attempt to Engulf
the same creature only once in a single use of Engulf. The
monster can contain as many creatures as can ﬁt in its space.
A creature that fails its save is pulled into the monster’s
body. It is grabbed, is slowed 1, and has to hold its breath
or start suﬀocating. The creature takes the listed amount
of damage when ﬁrst engulfed and at the end of each of
its turns while it’s engulfed. An engulfed creature can get
free by Escaping against the listed escape DC. An engulfed
creature can attack the monster engulﬁng it, but only with
unarmed attacks or with weapons of light Bulk or less. The
engulﬁng creature is ﬂat-footed against the attack. If the
monster takes piercing or slashing damage equaling or
exceeding the listed Rupture value from a single attack or
spell, the engulfed creature cuts itself free. A creature that
gets free by either method can immediately breathe and
exits the swallowing monster’s space.
If the monster dies, all creatures it has engulfed are
automatically released as the monster’s form loses cohesion.
Fast Healing A monster with this ability regains the given
number of Hit Points each round at the beginning of its turn.
Ferocity Ǻȓ Trigger The monster is reduced to 0 HP. Eﬀect The
monster avoids being knocked out and remains at 1 HP, but
its wounded value increases by 1. When it is wounded 3, it
can no longer use this ability.
Frightful Presence (aura, emotion, fear, mental) A creature that
ﬁrst enters the area must attempt a Will save. Regardless of
the result of the saving throw, the creature is temporarily
immune to this monster’s Frightful Presence for 1 minute.
Critical Success The creature is unaﬀected by the presence.
Success The creature is frightened 1.
Failure The creature is frightened 2.
Critical Failure The creature is frightened 4.
Grab Ȱɵ Requirements The monster’s last action was a
success with a Strike that lists Grab in its damage entry,
or it has a creature grabbed using this action. Eﬀect The
monster automatically Grabs the target until the end of the
monster’s next turn. The creature is grabbed by whichever
body part the monster attacked with, and that body part
can’t be used to Strike creatures until the grab is ended.
Using Grab extends the duration of the monster’s Grab
until the end of its next turn for all creatures grabbed by it.
A grabbed creature can use the Escape action to get out of
the grab, and the Grab ends for a grabbed creatures if the
monster moves away from it.
Greater Constrict Ȱɵ The monster deals the listed amount of
damage to any number of creatures grabbed or restrained
by it. Each of those creatures can attempt a basic Fortitude
save with the listed DC. A creature that fails this save
falls unconscious, and a creature that succeeds is then
temporarily immune to falling unconscious from Greater
Constrict for 1 minute.
Improved Grab, Improved Knockdown, or Improved Push Ȳ˓ The
monster can use Grab, Knockdown, or Push (as appropriate)
as a free action triggered by a hit with its initial attack. A
monster with Improved Grab still needs to spend an action
to extend the duration for creatures it already has grabbed.
Knockdown Ȱɵ Requirements The monster’s last action was
a success with a Strike that lists Knockdown in its damage
entry. Eﬀect The monster knocks the target prone.
Lifesense Lifesense allows a monster to sense the vital essence
of living and undead creatures within the listed range. The
sense can distinguish between the positive energy animating
living creatures and the negative energy animating undead
creatures, much as sight distinguishes colors.
Light Blindness When ﬁrst exposed to bright light, the
monster is blinded until the end of its next turn. After this
exposure, light doesn’t blind the monster again until after it
spends 1 hour in darkness. However, as long as the monster
is in an area of bright light, it’s dazzled.
Low-Light Vision The monster can see in dim light as though
it were bright light, so it ignores the concealed condition
due to dim light.
Poison When a creature is exposed to a monster’s poison, it
attempts a Fortitude save to avoid becoming poisoned. The
level of a poison is the level of the monster inﬂicting the
poison. The poison follows the rules for aﬄictions found on
page 457 of the Pathﬁnder Core Rulebook.
Push Ȱɵ Requirements The monster’s last action was a success
with a Strike that lists Push in its damage entry. Eﬀect The
monster automatically knocks the target away from the
monster. Unless otherwise noted in the ability description,
the creature is pushed 5 feet. If the attack was a critical hit,
this distance is doubled.
Regeneration This monster regains the listed number of Hit
Points each round at the beginning of its turn. Its dying
condition never increases beyond dying 3 as long as its
p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19669196
4425353
