p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19669193
4425350
Bestiary
340
CREATING ZOMBIES
To create a zombie creature, start
with a zombie of the appropriate
size. Then add any Strikes, Speeds,
or other abilities it would gain from
its shape. To create a Gargantuan
zombie, begin with the zombie hulk,
apply the elite adjustments, change
its size to Gargantuan, and increase
its reach by 5 feet.
Zombie
A zombie’s only desire is to consume the living. Unthinking and ever-shambling
harbingers of death, zombies stop only when they’re destroyed.
Zombie Abilities
You can modify zombies with the following zombie abilities. Most zombies have
one of these abilities; If you give a zombie more, you might want to increase its
level and adjust its statistics.
Disgusting Pustules (disease, necromancy) The zombie is covered in pustules that
rupture when it takes any piercing damage or any critical hit. In either case, adjacent
creatures are hit with vile ﬂuid, causing them to become sickened 1 unless they
succeed at a Fortitude save.
Feast ʚʖ (manipulate) If the zombie is adjacent to a helpless or unconscious creature,
or a deceased creature that died in the past hour, the zombie can feast upon its ﬂesh
to heal itself. This restores an amount of Hit Points equal to the zombie’s level. If the
creature is alive, the zombie deals damage equal to its jaws, ﬁst, or claw damage.
Plague-Ridden (disease, necromancy) The zombie carries a plague that can create more
of its own kind. This functions as the plague zombie’s zombie rot, except at stage 5,
the victim rises as another of the zombie’s type, rather than a plague zombie.
Rotting Aura (aura, disease, necromancy) The zombie emits an aura of rot and disease
that causes wounds to fester and turn sour. Any living creature that starts its turn
within 10 feet of the zombie and is not at full Hit Points takes 1d6 damage as its
wounds fester. This damage increases by 1d6 for every 6 levels the zombie has.
Creatures that take a critical hit from the zombie also take this damage immediately.
Unkillable This zombie is nigh unkillable. The zombie loses its weakness to slashing
and gains resistance against all damage equal to its level (minimum 3), and it gains
weakness equal to twice its level (minimum 6) to critical hits. Increase the zombie’s
level by 1 if you give it this ability.
Zombie Shambler
A zombie shambler is a slow-moving horror dangerous in larger groups.
ZOMBIE SHAMBLER
CREATURE –1
NE
MEDIUM
MINDLESS
UNDEAD
ZOMBIE
Perception +0; darkvision
Skills Athletics +5
Str +3, Dex –2, Con +2, Int –5, Wis +0, Cha –2
Slow A zombie is permanently slowed 1 and can’t use reactions.
AC 12; Fort +6, Ref +0, Will +2
HP 20, negative healing; Immunities death eﬀects, disease, mental, paralyzed,
poison, unconscious; Weaknesses positive 5, slashing 5
Speed 25 feet
Melee Ȱɵ ﬁst +7, Damage 1d6+3 bludgeoning plus Grab
jaws Ȱɵ (attack); Requirement The zombie has a creature grabbed or restrained.
Eﬀect The zombie makes a jaws unarmed melee Strike against the grabbed or
restrained creature with an attack modiﬁer of +7 that deals 1d8+3 piercing damage.
Plague Zombie
Plague zombies are infested with hideous contagions.
PLAGUE ZOMBIE
CREATURE 1
NE
MEDIUM
MINDLESS
UNDEAD
ZOMBIE
Perception +3; darkvision
Skills Athletics +7
Str +4, Dex –2, Con +3, Int –5, Wis +0, Cha –2
Slow As zombie shambler.
AC 13; Fort +6, Ref +3, Will +4
p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19669193
4425350
