p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19668943
4425100
Bestiary
90
INFERNAL CONTRACTS
The infernal contracts created by
contract devils are not the only
ways a devil can engage a mortal in
a binding agreement, but they are
the most convenient. Other devils
must perform complex rituals or
jump through bureaucratic hoops to
organize a contract with a mortal,
and in most cases the easiest
solution for devils in this situation
is to simply enlist the aid of a
contract devil.
prices seemingly lesser than their soul all at once, though in this case, the devil
carefully manipulates the price to drive the signatory toward the forces of
law and evil, and therefore ultimately to Hell anyway. Contract devils are tall
creatures with skin tones that range from bronze to crimson and large curving
horns extending from their bodies, over which they often drape favored or
important contracts.
PHISTOPHILUS
CREATURE 10
LE
MEDIUM
DEVIL
FIEND
Perception +21; greater darkvision
Languages Abyssal, Aklo, Celestial, Common, Draconic, Infernal, Undercommon;
telepathy 100 feet, tongues
Skills Arcana +19, Deception +23, Diplomacy +21, Intimidation +21, Legal Lore +25,
Religion +19, Society +19, Stealth +18
Str +3, Dex +4, Con +4, Int +7, Wis +5, Cha +5
AC 30; Fort +18, Ref +18, Will +23; +1 status to all saves vs. magic
HP 150; Immunities ﬁre, ward contract; Weaknesses good 10; Resistances physical
10 (except silver), poison 10
Ward Contract A signed contract carried by a living contract devil (including
draped over its horns) is immune to damage from all creatures other than
that contract devil. A contract devil is immune to mental eﬀects that would
make it destroy, nullify, or alter a contract.
Speed 25 feet
Melee Ȱɵ binding contract +23 (agile, disarm, evil, magical, reach 10 feet, trip),
Damage 3d6+11 slashing plus 1d6 evil, Grab, and infernal wound
Melee Ȱɵ horn +21 (magical), Damage 3d10+11 piercing and
infernal wound
Divine Innate Spells DC 31; 10th scrying (at will, see infernal
investment) 7th plane shift; 5th dimension door, ﬁreball,
illusory scene, lightning bolt, locate (at will), mind probe,
sending (at will); 4th dimension door (at will), private
sanctum, silence; 3rd mind reading (at will); Cantrips
(7th) detect magic; Constant (5th) tongues
Rituals DC 31; infernal pact
Draft Contract ̂ˬ (conjuration, divine, manipulate)
The contract devil produces an infernal contract for
a single living mortal. This contract can grant a wide
range of abilities and eﬀects, akin to the power of a
wish spell but fulﬁlled to the letter by the contract
devil. To receive any of those beneﬁts, the mortal must
willingly sign its true name to the contract. At that
point, the mortal’s soul is bound to the contract devil
and Hell.
	 While the contract is in eﬀect, the victim can’t be
restored to life except by wish or similar magic. If
the mortal is restored to life by those means, the
contract devil knows which mortal came to life and
can locate the creature or creatures who restored
the mortal to life for 1 year, gaining the eﬀects of a
locate spell with unlimited range. Avoiding the terms
of an infernal contract is diﬃcult and often dangerous.
Infernal Investment A contract devil can cast a 10th-level innate scrying spell
at will, but only to target a creature with which it has a contract. The target
automatically critically fails its save.
Infernal Wound (divine, necromancy) As barbazu, but the
persistent bleed damage is 3d6, and the counteract DC to
use healing magic is 29.
p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19668943
4425100
