p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19669128
4425285
O-R
275
Introduction
A-C
D
E-G
H-K
L-N
O-R
S-T
U-Z
Appendix
RAJA HEADS
Raja's heads often resemble those
of cats or snakes, but they can
also be similar to apes, jackals,
vultures, elephants, mantises,
lizards, rhinos, boars, and more are
possible. In most cases, the type
of head a raja rakshasa possesses
symbolizes its personality—a
tiger-headed one is stealthy and
ravenous, while a boar-headed one
might be gluttonous and crude.
Raja Rakshasa
When not disguised as a humanoid, the raja rakshasa has the head of an animal.
The hands of a raja rakshasa are more subtly unsettling, for the ﬁngers of these
ﬁends bend outward, away from the palms.
More than any other types of rakshasa, rajas scoff at religion. They understand
the power of the divine, yet they view themselves as the only things worthy
of worship from mortal creatures; not even their own immortals are deemed
deserving of such gloriﬁcation. Raja rakshasas often form close-knit families that
work together to bring down mortal cities or to rule them from the shadows
within. Such families of rakshasas often incorporate other breeds of the ﬁend,
often using dandasukas as favored servants or stealthy spies. Even though a raja
family works together to achieve a shared goal, inﬁghting and treachery among
their own is a constant threat.
RAJA RAKSHASA
CREATURE 10
LE
MEDIUM
FIEND
RAKSHASA
Perception +19; darkvision
Languages Common, Infernal, Undercommon
Skills Deception +23, Diplomacy +21, Intimidation +21, Performance +19, Occultism +18,
Stealth +20
Str +4, Dex +6, Con +4, Int +2, Wis +1, Cha +5
Items +1 striking kukri
AC 30; Fort +19, Ref +21, Will +18; +2 status to all saves vs. magic, +3 status to
all saves vs. divine magic
HP 155; Weaknesses good 10, Resistances physical 10 (except piercing)
Scoﬀ at the Divine Ǻȓ Trigger A creature within 30 feet casts a divine
spell or uses a divine ability. Requirements The raja rakshasa has an
unexpended spell slot that can be used to cast dispel magic. Eﬀect
The raja rakshasa expends a spell slot that could be used to cast
dispel magic and attempts to counteract the triggering spell or
ability. The raja rakshasa can’t Scoﬀ at the Divine for 1d4 rounds.
Speed 35 feet
Melee Ȱɵ kukri +23 (agile, ﬁnesse, magical, trip), Damage 2d6+10
slashing
Melee Ȱɵ fangs +20 (agile, magical), Damage 2d12+10 piercing
Melee Ȱɵ claw +22 (agile, ﬁnesse, magical), Damage 2d8+10 slashing
Occult Spontaneous Spells DC 31; 5th (3 slots) dispel magic,
hallucination, shadow blast; 4th (4 slots) clairvoyance, dispel magic, ﬂy,
suggestion; 3rd (4 slots) clairaudience, dispel magic, nondetection, vampiric touch;
2nd (4 slots) blur, hideous laughter, invisibility; 1st (4 slots) charm, illusory object,
item facade; Cantrips (5th) detect magic, ghost sound, mage hand, read aura, sigil
Occult Innate Spells DC 31; 3th mind reading (at will)
Change Shape Ȱɵ (concentrate, occult, polymorph, transmutation) The raja rakshasa
takes on the appearance of any Medium humanoid. This doesn’t change the
raja rakshasa’s Speed or its attack and damage modiﬁers with its Strikes but
might change the damage type its Strikes deal (typically to bludgeoning). It
typically loses its fangs Strike unless the humanoid form has fangs or a similar
unarmed attack.
Disturbing Vision Ȱɵ (concentrate, enchantment, mental, occult) The raja rakshasa’s
eyes ﬂash green as it projects a telepathic wave in a 30-foot emanation. All
creatures in the area are assailed by a vision of evil decadence from one of
the rakshasa’s past lives. Each non-evil creature in the area must succeed at
a DC 29 Will save or become sickened 1 (and stunned 1 on a critical
failure). The visions last 1d4 rounds, and while they do, the
raja rakshasa and all evil creatures in the area gain a
+1 status bonus to all checks. The raja rakshasa can
use this ability again only once the previous visions end.
p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19669128
4425285
