p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19668986
4425143
D
133
Introduction
A-C
D
E-G
H-K
L-N
O-R
S-T
U-Z
Appendix
Wyvern
A wyvern is a venomous drake with a well-earned reputation for impatience and
aggression. As much as 15 feet long and weighing up to 1,000 pounds, a wyvern’s
resilient body allows it to crash talons-ﬁrst into large prey without serious risk
to itself. A wyvern uses its momentum to stun its target before injecting it with
searing venom or carrying it over the side of a nearby cliff. Because a wyvern lacks
the strength to haul its prey all the way to its nest intact, it is far more likely to
lift and drop its victim over a gully or canyon and let gravity do its work before
it descends to pick apart the carcass.
Conversation is of little interest to a wyvern, as the creature
typically speaks only to taunt its prey, issue territorial claims, or
demand tribute. Even so, many wyverns enjoy grim humor and
tales of violent acts, particularly if those acts were committed by
the storyteller. A wyvern properly appeased with meat, entertainment,
and treasure sometimes agrees to provide assistance ranging
from giving directions to serving as a mount for a powerful
humanoid. However, these arrangements rarely last more than a
few weeks before the wyvern’s pride, malice, or insolence inspires
it to ﬂee or even betray its allies. Only the truly cruel can cow a
wyvern into servitude for an extended period, as most wyverns
are so self-interested that they go out of their way to avoid
helping others.
WYVERN
CREATURE 6
NE
LARGE
DRAGON
Perception +13; darkvision, scent (imprecise) 30 feet
Languages Draconic
Skills Acrobatics +14, Athletics +15, Stealth +12
Str +5, Dex +2, Con +4, Int –2, Wis +3, Cha +0
AC 24; Fort +16, Ref +12, Will +13
HP 95; Immunities paralyzed, unconscious
Attack of Opportunity Ǻȓ
Savage Ǻȓ Trigger A creature grabbed by the wyvern critically fails
a skill check to Escape. Eﬀect The wyvern makes a stinger Strike against the
triggering creature.
Speed 20 feet, ﬂy 60 feet
Melee Ȱɵ fangs +17, Damage 2d12+5 piercing
Melee Ȱɵ claw +17, Damage 2d8+5 slashing plus Grab
Melee Ȱɵ stinger +15 (agile, reach 10 feet), Damage 2d6+5 piercing plus
wyvern venom
Powerful Dive ʚʖ (move) The wyvern Flies up to its ﬂy Speed and must
both move forward at least 20 feet and descend at least 10 feet. If it
ends the movement within melee reach of at least one enemy its size
or smaller, it can make a claw Strike against that enemy. If the claw
hits, as a free action the wyvern can either automatically Grab the
target or knock it prone.
Punishing Momentum Ȱɵ Requirements The wyvern grabbed a creature this
turn using Powerful Dive. Eﬀect The wyvern can Fly at half Speed
while holding the creature in its claws, carrying
that creature along with it and dropping it at the
end of its movement. Alternatively, the wyvern
can Strike the creature with its stinger with a +2
circumstance bonus.
Wyvern Venom (poison); Saving Throw Fortitude DC 22;
Maximum Duration 6 rounds; Stage 1 5d6 poison damage
(1 round); Stage 2 6d6 poison damage (1 round); Stage 3 8d6 poison
damage (1 round)
ARE WYVERNS DRAKES?
Although commonly classiﬁed as
drakes, wyverns exhibit signiﬁcant
diﬀerences from most other types
of drakes. While scholars debate
the precise relationship between
them, none dispute that they
exhibit collegial behavior and
general deference to one another.
p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19668986
4425143
