p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19669163
4425320
Bestiary
310
JINX EATERS
In the pirate-controlled archipelago
of the Shackles, tengus occupy a
unique social niche, since many
pirates believe that a tengu’s
presence on board a ship wards
oﬀ bad luck. Known as “jinx
eaters,” these tengu are treated as
mascots by their pirate crews. Jinx
eaters don’t mind this treatment,
however, since it allows them
to escape much of the drudgery
associated with working on a
ship. When a tengu is sailing with
pirates afraid of ill fortune, the
claim that “hunger leads to bad
luck” secures comfort and respect
for the jinx eater more eﬀectively
than any bribe.
Tengu
Crow-like humanoids, tengus are a canny and clever people who can be found
across all of Golarion. Tengus are used to being minorities and facing suspicion
wherever they travel, so by necessity many possess a knack for languages as
well as for blades. They live on the fringes of society and tend to ﬂock toward
less-than-legal occupations, earning them their reputation for being streetwise
and unscrupulous—a label that, in turn, perpetuates the tengus’ oppressive cycle
of discrimination and illegitimate work.
Although humanoid, tengus have very distinct, birdlike features, and many
would say that they resemble crows more than they do humans. They have
strong, thick beaks, as well as sharp talons at the ends of their arms and legs.
Most of a tengu’s body is covered in small feathers that range in color from dark
brown and midnight blue to glossy black, with lighter colors being rare but not
unheard of. Like many avian creatures, tengus have hollow bones, making them
much lighter than other humanoids of their size, although few tengus possess the
wings necessary to ﬂy naturally. A tengu’s speech might be punctuated by quick
clucks or throaty cawing, and many tengus practice conversation diligently to rid
themselves of these involuntary ticks. Rufﬂing of the feathers and compulsive,
jerky movements of the neck are other trademark habits. Tengus reproduce by
laying eggs: the average tengu egg is about 11 inches in diameter and 16 inches
tall and takes 4 months to hatch.
Tengus are a people in diaspora and are almost always found within larger
kingdoms and communities of other races. Perhaps because they are more visually
distinctive than most other humanoid races, tengus tend to be distrusted and
persecuted more often than, for example, elves or dwarves. As a result, tengus
tend to gather in close-knit social groups composed of other outcasts and
people of uncommon ancestry. Few true tengu communities exist, and
those that do are often exiled to ghettos and other forgotten city
quarters. From an early age, tengus learn that the world is not a
friendly place and that they must look out for themselves.
TENGU SNEAK
CREATURE 2
CN
MEDIUM
HUMANOID
TENGU
Perception +6; low-light vision
Languages Common, Tengu, plus two others
Skills Acrobatics +8, Athletics +6, Deception +7, Diplomacy +5, Society
+5, Stealth +8, Thievery +8
Str +2, Dex +4, Con +1, Int +1, Wis +0, Cha +1
Items rapier, shortbow, studded leather armor
AC 19; Fort +7, Ref +10, Will +4
HP 27
Speed 25 feet
Melee Ȱɵ rapier +10 (deadly 1d8, disarm, ﬁnesse), Damage 1d6+2
piercing
Melee Ȱɵ beak +10 (ﬁnesse), Damage 1d4+2 piercing
Ranged Ȱɵ shortbow +10 (deadly 1d10, range increment 60 feet,
reload 0), Damage 1d6 piercing
Go for the Eyes Ǻȓ (incapacitation) Trigger The tengu critically hits with
a beak Strike. Eﬀect The tengu attempts to peck out its victim’s eyes. The
target must attempt a DC 17 Fortitude save.
Success Unaﬀected.
Failure Blinded for 1 round.
Critical Failure Blinded until healed to maximum HP.
Sneak Attack The tengu deals 1d6 extra precision damage to ﬂat-
footed creatures.
Surprise Attacker On the ﬁrst round of combat, creatures that haven’t
acted yet are ﬂat-footed to the tengu.
p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19669163
4425320
