p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19668899
4425056
Bestiary
46
DOMINION OF THE BLACK
Brain collectors typically hunt
alone, yet some adopt morbid
cults that include followers
who hope to have their own
brains harvested by these alien
invaders. The Dominion of the
Black includes a wide array of
monstrous aliens, of which the
brain collectors are merely the
most commonly encountered on
terrestrial worlds. Many of these
aliens have aﬃnities for stealing
thoughts, inhabiting bodies, or
feeding on memories—the focus
on the consumption of brains and
of identities suggesting disturbing
truths about their coalition.
Brain Collector
The grotesque brain collectors (or neh-thalggus, as they call themselves) originate
from worlds far beyond the known solar system, and are part of a conglomeration
of hostile aliens known collectively as the Dominion of the Black. Whether driven
by their own schemes or directives from sinister overlords, brain collectors arrive
in living starships to harvest the brains of intelligent creatures. These aberrations
draw no nutrition from brains, instead storing them for analysis and as vessels for
occult magical energies.
A brain collector’s form evokes that of a tailless scorpion, but the pulsing
brain-ﬁlled blisters that glisten along its back make them impossible to mistake
for merely oversized arachnids. Baleful eyes glare from the joints on their legs,
and the unsettling, intrusive whisper-thoughts they telepathically broadcast
into the minds of those they seek to feed on can be interpreted as threats or
promises alike.
Brain collectors have very little empathy for the denizens of any world they
visit, despite the fact that certain cults venerate them, or the Dominion they hail
from, as if they were gods. To brain collectors, terrestrial creatures are simply
resources for their magical needs and occult powers. They have little interest in
worshipping gods or being worshipped themselves, yet they do practice strange
forms of religion of their own, in which they consider the primordial forces of
deep space as worthy of faith and fear.
BRAIN COLLECTOR
CREATURE 8
UNCOMMON
CE
LARGE
ABERRATION
Perception +18; darkvision
Languages Abyssal, Aklo, Common, Draconic, Protean, Undercommon; telepathy 100 feet
Skills Acrobatics +17, Arcana +18, Athletics +16, Lore (all subcategories) +18,
Occultism +21, Stealth +17
Str +6, Dex +3, Con +5, Int +4, Wis +4, Cha +3
AC 26; Fort +15, Ref +13, Will +18; +1 status to all saves vs. magic
HP 140; Immunities confused; Weaknesses brain loss
Brain Blisters A brain collector has seven brain blisters on its back that it uses to house
stolen brains. A brain collector without all seven blisters full is stupeﬁed with a value
equal to the number of empty blisters.
Brain Loss If a brain collector takes 30 damage from a critical hit or takes
25 mental damage, it must succeed at a DC 26 save (Fortitude for critical
damage or Will for mental damage) or one of its brain blisters is destroyed.
Speed 25 feet, ﬂy 30 feet
Melee Ȱɵ jaws +20, Damage 2d12+6 piercing plus brain collector venom
Melee Ȱɵ claw +20 (agile), Damage 2d8+6 slashing
Occult Spontaneous Spells DC 26, attack +18; 4th (2 slots)
confusion, phantasmal killer; 3rd (3 slots) dispel magic,
haste, paralyze; 2nd (4 slots) humanoid form, invisibility,
mirror image, paranoia; 1st (4 slots) mindlink, ray of
enfeeblement, true strike, unseen servant; Cantrips
(4th) dancing lights, detect magic, mage hand,
prestidigitation
Brain Collector Venom (poison); Saving Throw
DC 26 Fortitude; Maximum Duration 6 rounds;
Stage 1 1d6 poison and enfeebled 1 (1 round);
Stage 2 1d6 poison, enfeebled 1, and slowed 1
(1 round); Stage 3 2d6 poison, enfeebled 2, and
slowed 1 (1 round)
Collect Brain Ȱɵ (manipulate) The brain collector
collects a brain of a creature that has been dead for no
more than 1 minute. It can then use an Interact action to secure the brain in one of its
empty brain blisters.
p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19668899
4425056
