p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19669200
4425357
347
Introduction
A-C
D
E-G
H-K
L-N
O-R
S-T
U-Z
Appendix
against all damage (except force damage and damage from
Strikes with the ghost touch property rune), with double
the resistance against non-magical damage.
Inevitable These constructed aeons were created by the
axiomites. Each type of inevitable is dedicated to a speciﬁc
task. Most inevitables have weakness to chaotic damage.
Kobold Kobolds are reptilian humanoids who are usually Small
and typically have darkvision.
Leshy Leshys are small plant creatures, roughly humanoid
in form.
Lizardfolk Lizardfolk are a family of reptilian humanoids.
Magical Something with the magical trait is imbued with
magical energies not tied to a speciﬁc tradition of magic.
A magical item radiates a magic aura infused with its
dominant school of magic.
Some items or eﬀects are closely tied to a particular
tradition of magic. In these cases, the item has the arcane,
divine, occult, or primal trait instead of the magical trait.
Any of these traits indicate that the item is magical.
Merfolk These aquatic humanoids have an upper body similar
to a human and a lower body similar to a ﬁsh.
Mindless A mindless creature has either programmed or
rudimentary mental attributes. Most, if not all, of their mental
ability modiﬁers are –5. They are immune to all mental eﬀects.
Monitor Creatures that hail from or have a strong connection
to the neutrally aligned planes are called monitors. Monitors
can survive the basic environmental eﬀects of planes in the
Outer Sphere.
Mummy A mummy is an undead creature created from a
preserved corpse.
Mutant The monster has mutated or evolved, granting it
unusual beneﬁts, drawbacks, or both.
Nymph This family of beautiful fey creatures has strong ties
to natural locations.
Ooze Oozes are creatures with simple anatomies. They tend
to have low mental ability scores and immunity to mental
eﬀects and precision damage.
Orc A creature with this trait is a member of the orc ancestry.
These green-skinned people tend to have darkvision. An
ability with this trait can be used or selected only by orcs.
An item with this trait is created and used by orcs.
Plant Vegetable creatures have the plant trait. They are
distinct from normal plants. Magical eﬀects with this trait
manipulate or conjure plants or plant matter in some way.
Those that manipulate plants have no eﬀect in an area with
no plants.
Protean A family of monitors spawned within the Maelstrom,
these creatures are guardians of disorder and are chaotic
neutral. They typically have darkvision, an amorphous
anatomy, and a weakness to lawful damage.
Psychopomp A family of monitors spawned within the Boneyard
to convey souls to the Outer Planes, most psychopomps are
true neutral. They typically have darkvision, lifesense, and
spirit touch, and they are immune to death eﬀects.
Rakshasa Reincarnations of evil souls, rakshasas are ﬁends
that live on the Material Plane.
Ratfolk Ratfolk are humanoids who resemble rats.
Sea Devil Evil ocean-dwelling humanoids, sea devils usually
have darkvision and wavesense.
Skeleton This undead is made by animating a dead creature’s
skeleton with negative energy.
Soulbound These constructs are mentally augmented by a
fragment of a once-living creature’s soul.
Spirit Spirits are ephemeral creatures deﬁned by their spiritual
essence. They often lack a material form.
Sprite A family of diminutive winged fey with a strong
connection to primal magic.
Swarm A swarm is a mass or cloud of creatures that functions
as one monster. Its size entry gives the size of the entire
mass, though for most swarms the individual creatures that
make up that mass are Tiny. A swarm can occupy the same
space as other creatures, and must do so in order to use
its damaging action. A swarm typically has weakness to
eﬀects that deal damage over an area (like area spells and
splash weapons).
Tengu Tengu are humanoids who resemble birds.
Troll Trolls are giant, brutish creatures and are well known for
their ability to regenerate.
Undead Once living, these creatures were infused after death
with negative energy and soul-corrupting evil magic. When
reduced to 0 Hit Points, an undead creature is destroyed.
Undead creatures are damaged by positive energy, are healed
by negative energy, and don’t beneﬁt from healing eﬀects.
Vampire Undead creatures who thirst for blood, vampires are
notoriously versatile and hard to destroy.
Water Eﬀects with the water trait either manipulate or
conjure water. Those that manipulate water have no eﬀect
in an area without water. Creatures with this trait are
primarily constituted of water or have a magical connection
to the element.
Werecreature These shapechanging creatures either are
naturally able to shift between animal, humanoid, and
hybrid forms or are aﬄicted with a curse that forces them
to shift involuntarily.
Xulgath These subterranean reptilian creatures tend to have
darkvision and smell awful.
Zombie These undead are mindless rotting corpses that
hunger for living ﬂesh.
New Rituals
Some creatures from the Outer Planes can use special
rituals to call their kin or transport themselves to another
plane. These are the rituals used by angels, demons,
and devils.
ABYSSAL PACT
RITUAL 1
UNCOMMON
CONJURATION
Cast 1 day
Primary Check Religion (expert; you must be a demon)
You call in a favor from another demon whose level is no more
than double Abyssal pact’s spell level, two demons whose
levels are each at least 2 less than double the spell level,
or three demons whose levels are each at least 3 less than
double the spell level.
p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19669200
4425357
