p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19669037
4425194
Bestiary
184
FLESH GOLEMS
Few buyers want anything to do
with the remains of a destroyed
ﬂesh golem. An adventurer’s best
bet for proﬁting oﬀ of a ﬂesh
golem body is to disassemble it
piece by piece, extract the few
contraptions of steel and copper
meant to harness electricity, and
sell the parts to tinkerers who ask
few questions.
Golem
Crafted of base materials and then magically animated into a powerful guardian, the
legendary golem is a living construct that mindlessly obeys its creator’s commands—
often continuing to do so for years or even centuries after its creator’s death. There
exist two known methods of animating a golem. The traditional method involves
harvesting and implanting an elemental soul or essence within the newly crafted host
statue, a procedure seen as vile and blasphemous to those who value the sanctity
of the soul; evil or amoral golem crafters tend to prefer this method. The other,
less disreputable technique involves siphoning pure positive energy into the statue
to artiﬁcially imitate the creation of a soul. The result does not give the golem a
true soul and is generally a more costly and time-consuming method of creation.
Regardless of the method used, the resulting golem functions the same. A golem’s
unique animating force leaves it susceptible to certain forms of magic, but apart from
these few weaknesses, it is impervious to magic and difﬁcult to damage with weapons.
Golems work best in play as foes to vanquish rather than allies to accompany
player characters on adventures. The process of creating a golem is time-consuming,
expensive, and difﬁcult, and only the most talented spellcasters or artisans can even
hope to accomplish such an undertaking. While certain magical texts—so-called
“golem manuals”—are said to aid golems crafters, for the most part the creation of
a golem should be something left in the hands of the Game Master.
Golems have components that can be harvested as trophies or magical
components; the value depends on the golem in question. Examples of components
that can be harvested from golems are listed in the sidebars.
Golem Antimagic
A golem is immune to spells and magical abilities other
than its own, but each type of golem is affected by a few
types of magic in special ways. These exceptions are
listed in shortened form in the golem’s stat block,
with the full rules appearing here. If an entry
lists multiple types (such as “cold and water”),
either type of spell can affect the golem.
•  Harmed By Any magic of this type that
targets the golem causes it to take the listed amount of damage (this damage
has no type) instead of the usual eﬀect. If the golem starts its turn in an area of
magic of this type or is aﬀected by a persistent eﬀect of the appropriate type, it
takes the damage listed in the parenthetical.
•	 Healed By Any magic of this type that targets the golem makes the golem
lose the slowed condition and gain HP equal to half the damage the spell
would have dealt. If the golem starts its turn in an area of this type of
magic, it gains the HP listed in the parenthetical.
•  Slowed By Any magic of this type that targets the golem causes
it to be slowed 1 for 2d6 rounds instead of the usual eﬀect. If the
golem starts its turn in an area of this type of magic, it’s slowed 1
for that round.
•
Vulnerable To Each golem is vulnerable to one or more
speciﬁc spells, with the eﬀects described in its stat block.
Flesh Golem
Made of odd scraps of skin and muscle, a ﬂesh golem
is a grotesque parody of life. Though it has no mind,
it can still go into a berserk rage when harmed, giving
it a faint semblance of emotion. Flesh golems guard
the laboratories and charnel houses of ﬂeshwarpers
and necromancers who feel no compunctions about
desecrating corpses for their own ends. Though the
ﬁrst ﬂesh golem is believed to have been a misguided
p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19669037
4425194
