p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19669048
4425205
E-G
195
Introduction
A-C
D
E-G
H-K
L-N
O-R
S-T
U-Z
Appendix
GRIKKITOG ORIGINS
Grikkitogs are the subject of
countless scary stories told among
denizens of the Plane of Earth,
many of which speculate upon
their origin. Some who remember
the wars between the elemental
lords believe the ﬁrst grikkitog
was an experiment created to
serve as a weapon for Ayrzul,
the evil Fossilized King of the
Elemental Plane of Earth, but its
hunger and power was so great
that it escaped containment,
infested an earth elemental
warden, and began to spread
throughout the plane.
Grikkitog
Grikkitogs, also known as “hungry earth,” are strange parasites from the Plane
of Earth that infest and possess earth, rock, and stone in order to feed their
endless hunger. A young grikkitog is a formless apparition until it corrupts an
earth elemental host, forming the grikkitog’s core. A grikkitog can then infest
the earth and stone nearby with its voracious essence, forming maws and eyes
all around it. These creatures are particularly dangerous to small creatures that
lair within gaps and holes among rocks, as well as mountain climbers searching
for the perfect handhold.
GRIKKITOG
CREATURE 14
NE
HUGE
ABERRATION
EARTH
Perception +29; darkvision, manifold vision, tremorsense (imprecise) 30 feet
Languages Terran
Skills Athletics +28, Deception +27 (+31 to imitate stone), Survival +25
Str +8, Dex +4, Con +5, Int +2, Wis +5, Cha +5
Implant Core ̂ˬ (manipulate) The grikkitog implants its core into an adjacent section
of earth or stone, melding seamlessly and changing its visual appearance to match
the surrounding rock. It’s immobilized but automatically succeeds at its Deception
check to Impersonate the stone around it; creatures actively searching for it can
still attempt Perception checks against its Deception DC as normal. A grikkitog can
release its implantation as a free action, which has the manipulate trait. A grikkitog’s
infestation aura and manifold vision are only active while implanted.
Manifold Vision While its core is implanted, the grikkitog can see through the eyes
it creates throughout the area of its infestation aura, gaining the beneﬁts of all-
around vision.
AC 36; Fort +28, Ref +23, Will +24
HP 200, Resistances 10 (except adamantine)
Infestation Aura (aura, earth, occult) 120 feet. While its core is implanted, a
grikkitog infests all earth and stone within 120 feet, as long as there
is a contiguous physical connection between the earth, including
stone objects touching on the ground. This eﬀect spreads even if
the grikkitog does not have line of eﬀect, though it can aﬀect
earth or stone on the surface and exposed to the air only
if at least part of its core is exposed as well. Within the
aura, it can grow maws and eyes everywhere. It can make
jaws attacks against any creature, originating from any
earth or stone in the aura adjacent to that creature.
Determine cover from the origin point of the attack,
not from the grikkitog’s core.
Speed 20 feet; burrow 20 feet
Melee Ȱɵ jaws +29 (magical), Damage 3d12+14
piercing plus barbed maw
Barbed Maw Upon Striking a creature with
its jaws, the grikkitog can extend its
barbed teeth, immobilizing the target
unless it succeeds at a DC 34 Reﬂex
save. While immobilized, the victim takes
3d8 persistent bleed damage and the
grikkitog feeds upon its ﬂesh. The creature is
immobilized until the grikkitog ends the eﬀect
as a free action or the target succeeds at a DC
38 check to Escape. The grikkitog can immobilize
any number of creatures with these maws.
Earth Glide The grikkitog can Burrow through dirt and
stone at its full burrow Speed, leaving no tunnels or
signs of its passing.
p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19669048
4425205
