p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19669045
4425202
Bestiary
192
GREMLIN BELLS
Superstitious societies sometimes
hang tiny bells made of
semiprecious metals in the belief
that such bells will dissuade
gremlins from destroying an
aﬃxed object or infesting a home.
Strangely enough, most gremlins
believe this superstition as well,
and even when a gremlin bell
hasn’t been magically enhanced,
a gremlin usually won’t risk
tinkering with objects that seem to
be protected in such a manner.
Gremlin
Gremlins are cruel fey tricksters and saboteurs who have fully acclimated to life
on the Material Plane, ﬁnding distinct niches for their inventive destructiveness.
All gremlins delight in ruining or breaking things, whether it’s something physical
like a device or vehicle or something intangible such as an alliance or relationship.
A gremlin’s greatest joy is watching the collapse of complex creations, preferably
after the lightest and slightest, carefully targeted push from the gremlin. Gremlins
tend to denigrate, bully, or even slaughter their lesser kin, particularly mitﬂits,
whom gremlins (and many others) derisively call “mites.”
Mitflit
Mitﬂits, also known as mites, are self-loathing and pitiful cowards, easily bullied
into servitude by other creatures or even slightly more powerful mitﬂit leaders.
They tame insects, spiders, and other such creatures to serve as faithful allies.
Mitﬂits have lost most of their ancestral gremlin magic, leaving these incomplete
beings full of doubt and insecurity. Mitﬂits ﬁnd companionship in the other base
creatures of the world, and forge bonds of friendship with vermin, the only other
beings that seem willing to accept them. A social structure, even one in which they
are bullied, partially ﬁlls the hole within mitﬂits’ personalities, and they rarely
rebel or rail out unless their rage hits a breaking point.
MITFLIT
CREATURE –1
LE
SMALL
FEY
GREMLIN
Perception +4; darkvision, scent (imprecise) 30 feet
Languages Undercommon
Skills Acrobatics +5, Diplomacy +1 (+7 vs. arthropods), Nature +3, Stealth +5, Thievery +5
Str –1, Dex +3, Con +0, Int –1, Wis +1, Cha –1
Self-Loathing (emotion, mental) A mitﬂit’s self-loathing makes it easy to inﬂuence. It
takes a –4 penalty to its Will DC against checks to Coerce, Demoralize, Make an
Impression, and Request.
Vermin Empathy Mitﬂits can use Diplomacy to Make an Impression on and Request things
of arthropods (insects, spiders, scorpions, crabs, and similar invertebrate animals). Most
arthropods have a starting attitude of indiﬀerent to mitﬂits.
Items dart (10), shortsword
AC 15; Fort +2, Ref +7, Will +4
HP 10; Weaknesses cold iron 2
Speed 20 feet; climb 20 feet
Melee Ȱɵ shortsword +8 (agile, ﬁnesse, versatile S),
Damage 1d6–1 piercing
Ranged Ȱɵ dart +8 (agile, range increment 20 feet,
thrown), Damage 1d4–1 piercing
Primal Innate Spells DC 16; 2nd speak with animals (at will;
arthropods only); 1st bane; Cantrips (1st) prestidigitation
Vengeful Anger (emotion, mental) As long as it isn’t frightened, a
mitﬂit gains a +2 status bonus to damage rolls against a creature that
has previously damaged or tormented it.
Pugwampi
Mean, dog-faced, and craven, pugwampis take disproportionate
enjoyment from the accidents and missteps of other creatures—something
that happens often due to the supernatural aura of ill fortune these gremlins
project. They enjoy preparing pranks involving spikes, excrement, pits full of
spiders, and the like. Pugwampis are somewhat deaf and thus often yell
loudly to each other when not hiding. Many pugwampis worship
gnolls as gods and aspire to be more like gnolls, although gnolls
hate pugwampis even more than most creatures do, due to their
sycophantic fawning.
p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19669045
4425202
