p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19668956
4425113
D
103
Introduction
A-C
D
E-G
H-K
L-N
O-R
S-T
U-Z
Appendix
INFILTRATING A PARTY
While incorporating a doppelganger
who inﬁltrates the adventuring
party into your game can lead to
many exciting narrative possibilities,
in practice, it’s not easy (or even
advisable) to pull oﬀ. If you wish
to try, it’s best to make sure you
know your players well and have
their trust. You can take a targeted
player aside to let them know
that, for a time, they’ll be playing a
doppelganger, but take care not to
remove the player’s agency from the
game for too long or too often, as
that can get old fast from the other
side of the GM screen!
Doppelganger
In their natural forms, doppelgangers are humanoid creatures with ﬂesh of
indeterminate color and features that lack ﬁne details, as if unﬁnished. As
masters of mimicry, they use their abilities to impersonate others in devious
ways, often inﬁltrating settlements and residing within them for years without
being detected.
Doppelgangers are incredibly secretive, with some nearing outright paranoia. They
choose their targets carefully and go to great lengths not to reveal their intentions
before their plans come to fruition. Doppelgangers usually inﬁltrate communities
in order to gain some manner of wealth or power, and assume the guises of other
(usually inﬂuential) persons to allow the creatures they’re impersonating to take the
fall for any negative consequences that may result from their actions.
Though most are not evil, doppelgangers are manipulative and self-serving. As
they don’t have their own society and aren’t monolithic in their motivations, an
individual doppelganger has its own unique interests and impulses, though many
are over-indulgent. Some doppelgangers enjoy the thrill of subtlety, while others
favor grander schemes, such as manipulating a nation’s political
infrastructure. Others seek to exploit merchant guilds to gain
immense wealth, while others use their shape-changing ability to
destroy relationships between close friends or families.
Doppelgangers are careful and patient creatures. They are willing
to slowly construct elaborate schemes that may require extended
periods of time—even decades—to yield results.
Doppelgangers often work alone, as they don’t trust potential cohorts
not to ruin their plans. There are rare times when doppelgangers might
reveal secrets to high-ranking individuals to ensure a successful inﬁltration.
When they do work with others, it’s because they’ve taken the shape of a
target group’s leader, unbeknownst to the organization’s members.
Doppelgangers can grow in power by learning skills and
abilities, and often make excellent rogues, spellcasters, or
ﬁghters. A doppelganger that has class abilities can often
effectively inﬁltrate and plague an adventuring group as a
powerful antagonist—but using a doppelganger like this in
your game should be handled with care (see the Inﬁltrating a Party sidebar
above for more information).
DOPPELGANGER
CREATURE 3
UNCOMMON
N
MEDIUM
HUMANOID
Perception +7; darkvision
Languages Common, two other languages
Skills Deception +11, Diplomacy +11, Society +8, Stealth +8
Str +3, Dex +3, Con +0, Int +1, Wis +2, Cha +4
AC 18; Fort +5, Ref +10, Will +11
HP 50
End the Charade Ǻȓ (attack); Trigger The doppelganger is transformed with Change
Shape and another creature moves adjacent to it or takes a hostile action against it.
Eﬀect The doppelganger reverts to its natural form and can make a Strike against the
triggering creature. If the creature was unaware the doppelganger was in disguise,
that creature is ﬂat-footed against this attack.
Speed 25 feet
Melee Ȱɵ claw +10 (agile), Damage 2d6+5 slashing
Arcane Innate Spells DC 21; 3rd mind reading (at will)
Change Shape Ȱɵ (arcane, concentrate, polymorph, transmutation) The doppelganger
takes on the speciﬁc appearance of any Small or Medium humanoid who it has seen
and whose appearance it remembers. This doesn’t change the doppelganger’s Speed
or its attack and damage bonuses with its Strikes but might change the damage type
its Strikes deal (typically to bludgeoning).
p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19668956
4425113
