p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19669134
4425291
O-R
281
Introduction
A-C
D
E-G
H-K
L-N
O-R
S-T
U-Z
Appendix
ROC RESOURCES
While most treasure a roc may
possess is incidental—the remains
of prey haphazardly scattered in
or around the nest—roc feathers,
especially white or gold ones, are
highly prized in certain markets.
Even more valuable are roc eggs,
especially to some giants who
enjoy their unique ﬂavor.
Roc
Legendarily massive raptors capable of carrying off elephants as prey, rocs are
typically about 30 feet long from beak to tail and have a wingspan of 80 feet
or more. While their beaks are hooked to rip ﬂesh from bone, their hunting
strategy involves grabbing their prey in their powerful talons and then dropping
it from great heights before feeding. This method creates a massive amount
of carrion, which guarantees that rocs are followed by ﬂocks of opportunistic
scavengers, such as ravens and buzzards, who ﬁnd it easy to steal bits of the
larger birds’ meals. Rocs, for the most part, don’t mind these creatures, which
sometimes get gobbled up along with the rest of the roc’s food.
Rocs usually nest among mountaintops and cliffs inaccessible to all but the
bravest of terrestrial dwellers. They are long-range predators that hunt both
land and sea in search for massive prey to sustain them and their young.
Rocs are antisocial and lone hunters who compete with each other in ﬁerce
aerial battles to protect territory. But about once a decade, a mating couple pairs
up to raise their chicks. Once the chicks are old enough to hunt on their own,
the parents separate to once again engage in lone hunting.
Particularly skilled druids or rangers might capture and train a roc to
serve as a ﬂying mount or hunting companion, though examples of such an
incredible feat of domestication are few and far between. The easiest way to
rear a roc is to do so from the moment it hatches, since the chick imprints
on the ﬁrst creature it sees. Acquiring a roc egg is by no means an easy feat,
though, and is often a death sentence for the would-be egg-snatcher.
ROC
CREATURE 9
N
GARGANTUAN
ANIMAL
Perception +18; low-light vision
Skills Acrobatics +15, Athletics +21
Str +8, Dex +2, Con +5, Int –4, Wis +1, Cha +0
AC 27; Fort +20, Ref +17, Will +16
HP 180
Wing Rebuﬀ Ǻȓ Trigger A creature moves from beyond the reach of the
roc’s wing to within the reach of the roc’s wing. Eﬀect The roc makes a wing
Strike against the triggering creature. If the roc Pushes the creature, it disrupts the
triggering move action.
Speed 20
feet, ﬂy 60 feet
Melee Ȱɵ beak +21 (reach 15 feet),
Damage 2d10+12 piercing
Melee Ȱɵ talon +21 (agile, reach 15 feet), Damage
2d8+12 slashing plus Improved Grab
Melee Ȱɵ wing +21 (agile, reach 30 feet), Damage 2d6+10
bludgeoning plus Improved Push 10 feet
Flying Strafe ʚʖ The roc Flies up to its Speed and makes two talon Strikes at any point
during that movement. Each Strike must target a diﬀerent creature. Each attack takes
the normal multiple attack penalty.
Snack A roc gains a +2 circumstance bonus to hit with its beak Strike if the target is
grabbed or restrained in its talon.
Snatch A roc can Fly at half Speed while it has a creature grabbed or restrained in either
or both of its talons, carrying that creature along with it.
p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19669134
4425291
