p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19669074
4425231
L-N
221
Introduction
A-C
D
E-G
H-K
L-N
O-R
S-T
U-Z
Appendix
LICH TREASURE
The lair of a lich is usually ﬁlled
with several magical treasures,
particularly items that the undead
can use based on its spellcasting
abilities. Scrolls, wands, and
staves are quite common,
as are books of lore and
tomes containing entirely
new spells.
AlTERNaTE LICH ABIlITIES
Although the abilities on page 220 are standard for a lich, you can create a
more unusual lich by substituting any one of the following abilities for frightful
presence, hand of the lich, Drain Phylactery, or paralyzing touch.
Blasphemous Utterances (arcane, aura, enchantment, mental) 10 feet. The lich is
accompanied by a constant echo of blasphemous murmurs and tainted whispers. A
creature in the aura takes a –2 circumstance penalty to saves against mental eﬀects
and can’t take actions that have the concentrate trait unless they succeed at a DC 10
ﬂat check. Failing this check wastes the action.
Cold Beyond Cold The lich’s hand Strike deals cold damage instead of negative, and
instead of being paralyzed, the target is slowed 2. A successful Fortitude save reduces
this to slowed 1 (or negates it on a critical success).
Dark Deliverance The lich has resistance to positive equal to its level.
Siphon Life Ǻȓ Trigger The lich deals damage with its hand Strike. Eﬀect The lich regains
Hit Points equal to half the damage dealt.
Void Shroud (aura, death, necromancy) 30 feet. The lich is surrounded by an aura of death,
drawing forth souls to be consumed by the lich’s constant hunger. Living creatures in
the emanation take a –2 status penalty to saves against fear and death eﬀects. In
addition, any creature that starts its turn in the area gains the doomed 1 condition
unless it succeeds at a Will save against the lich’s spell DC – 4.
Lich
A wizard whose insatiable desire for arcane power eclipsed their
mortal life, the lich is a truly devious and versatile spellcaster.
LICH
CREATURE 12
RARE
NE
MEDIUM
UNDEAD
Perception +20; darkvision
Languages Abyssal, Aklo, Common, Draconic, Elf, Infernal, Necril,
Undercommon
Skills Arcana +28, Crafting +24 (can craft magic items), Deception +17,
Diplomacy +19, Religion +22, Stealth +20
Str +0, Dex +4, Con +0, Int +6, Wis +4, Cha +3
Items potion of invisibility, scroll of teleport, greater staﬀ of ﬁre
AC 31; Fort +17, Ref +21, Will +23; +1 status to all saves vs. positive
HP 190, negative healing, rejuvenation; Immunities death eﬀects, disease,
paralyzed, poison, unconscious; Resistances cold 10, physical 10 (except
magic bludgeoning)
Frightful Presence (aura, emotion, fear, mental) 60 feet, DC 29
Counterspell Ǻȓ Trigger A creature casts a spell the lich has prepared. Eﬀect
The lich expends a prepared spell to counter the triggering creature’s
casting of that same spell. The lich loses its spell slot as if it had cast the
triggering spell. The lich then attempts to counteract the triggering spell.
Speed 25 feet
Melee Ȱɵ hand +24 (ﬁnesse, magical), Damage 4d8 negative plus
paralyzing touch
Arcane Prepared Spells DC 36, attack +26; 6th chain lightning, dominate,
vampiric exsanguination; 5th cloudkill, cone of cold (×2), wall of ice; 4th
dimension door, dispel magic, ﬁre shield, ﬂy; 3rd blindness, locate, magic
missile, vampiric touch; 2nd false life, mirror image, resist energy, see invisibility;
1st ﬂeet step, ray of enfeeblement (×2), true strike; Cantrips (6th) detect magic,
mage hand, message, ray of frost, shield
Drain Phylactery Ȳ˓ 6th level
Paralyzing Touch (arcane, curse, incapacitation, necromancy) DC 32
Steady Spellcasting If a reaction would disrupt the lich’s spellcasting
action, the lich attempts a DC 15 ﬂat check. On a
success, the action isn’t disrupted.
p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19669074
4425231
