p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19668867
4425024
Bestiary
14
Alghollthu Master (Aboleth)
Aboleths form the core of alghollthu society, and while they are the “common folk”
of their own societies, they see themselves as masters of all others. Unlike their
leaders, who mask their actions using magical disguises, aboleths revel in their
monstrous forms, appearing as primeval ﬁsh with tentacles. Masters of psychic
manipulation, they are a species so ancient that they were present in the world when
it was young, before the gods had turned their attention to the planet. They see all
other life as something they have the right to control, so the idea that potential
slaves might have faith in a higher power other than themselves enrages aboleths.
ALGHOLLTHU MASTER
 CREATURE 7
UNCOMMON
LE
HUGE
ABERRATION
AQUATIC
Perception +17; darkvision
Languages Aklo, Alghollthu, Aquan, Common, Undercommon
Skills Athletics +16, Deception +15, Intimidation +15, Lore (any one subcategory) +14,
Occultism +16
Str +5, Dex +1, Con +6, Int +3, Wis +5, Cha +4
Mucus Cloud (aura, disease) 5 feet. While underwater, an aboleth exudes a cloud of
transparent slime. An air-breathing creature adjacent to an aboleth must succeed at a
DC 25 Fortitude save each round or lose the ability to breathe air but gain the ability
to breathe water for 3 hours.
AC 23; Fort +15, Ref +10, Will +16
HP 135
Speed 10 feet, swim 60 feet
Melee Ȱɵ tentacle +16 (agile, magical, reach 15 feet), Damage 2d8+10 bludgeoning plus slime
Occult Innate Spells DC 25; 7th project image (at will), veil (at will); 6th dominate (×3),
illusory scene (at will); 5th illusory object (at will); 4th hallucinatory terrain (at will);
3rd hypnotic pattern (at will)
Slime (curse, occult, virulent) Saving Throw Fortitude DC 25; Stage 1 no ill eﬀect (1 round);
Stage 2 the victim’s skin softens, inﬂicting drained 1 (1 round); Stage 3 the victim’s
skin transforms into a clear, slimy membrane, inﬂicting drained 2 until
the curse ends; every hour this membrane remains dry, the
creature’s drained condition increases by 1 (permanent).
A remove disease spell can counteract this curse, but
immunity to disease oﬀers no protection against it.
Veiled Master (Vidileth)
The powerful vidileths are the insidious
veiled masters of the alghollthus. These
manipulators of mind and body alike
lead their species in the open, using
their ability to change form to walk
among and deceive humans and
other sapient species. Many veiled
masters are even more powerful than
the typical specimen presented here and can
use a wide range of arcane or occult spells and rituals.
While veiled masters command signiﬁcant
combat prowess and impressive magical skills,
the greatest danger they pose to others is their
uncanny ability to inﬁltrate into societies much
different than their own. The most paranoid of
adventurers and conspiracy scholars worry that every major city has been
infested by secret cabals of vidileths, while others dismiss this as hogwash
and fearmongering. The truth is likely somewhere in between, but it doesn’t
take many veiled masters pulling the strings behind the scenes to wreak havoc
upon an entire nation!
ALGHOLLTHU TREASURE
Although most alghollthus lack
the greed that tempts most
mortals, they do gather wealth
and magical tools to use in their
schemes. A given aboleth or
veiled master might also wear
magical jewelry and other objects.
Faceless stalkers and other
humanoid servants of alghollthus
use weapons and armor, such as
the faceless stalker’s sword or
ulat-kini’s trident, as well as other
tools. These servitor races can be
as acquisitive as other humanoids.
p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19668867
4425024
