p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19669035
4425192
Bestiary
182
GOBLIN DOG STORIES
Goblins adore their goblin dog
pets, and crafting stories about
goblin dog antics is a time-
honored pursuit among many
goblin clans. Goblins often seek to
outdo prior stories by increasing
the audacity, ridiculousness,
and surreality of their tales.
Examples of popular goblin dog
tales include goblin dogs holding
fancy dinners in high society
among unwitting humans, goblin
dogs tainting dwarven ale in
unmentionable ways, and goblins
who transform into barghests
as a result of a goblin dog bite.
This last plot, in particular, has
some truth to it, as many credible
accounts point to the existence
of goblin dog werecreatures in
certain goblin tribes.
Goblin Dog
Goblins’ eponymous pets aren’t true canines at all, but rather large, blunt-nosed
rodents with thin bodies and long legs. As cowardly as they are ugly, goblin dogs
prefer to lurk behind bushes or in deep shadows, pouncing upon lone or wounded
prey. Goblin dogs frequently lair and roam in packs, but they are likely to ﬂee
from a ﬁght if injured, even if it means abandoning their pack-mates.
Goblin dogs take their name from their long association with goblins, who
breed the beasts as guard animals and mounts. Most goblins take issue with
the name, as the average goblin is appalled at the suggestion that these, their
favored mounts, have anything at all to do with actual dogs. Of course, being
goblins, they haven’t bothered to come up with their own, unique name for
goblin dogs.
Even the most pampered goblin dogs have itchy mange and proliﬁc dander
that tenaciously affects those who come in contact with them. This “goblin
pox” causes itchy hives and festering sores that are as unsightly as they are
irritating and distracting. Goblin dog dander causes allergic reactions in nearly
all other creatures that don’t share the goblin dogs’ terrible hygiene—with the
notable exception, of course, of goblins, who remain entirely immune to the
disease regardless of cleanliness.
Hunger can drive goblin dogs to bouts of uncharacteristic violence; many
goblins purposefully starve their pets to make them more aggressive in battle.
Goblin dogs subsist on whatever organic material they can scavenge, and they
particularly enjoy fresh carrion. Although goblins are far from picky eaters,
they value goblin dogs as pets because the noisome animals will consume
food that even goblins won’t dare to eat. “Will it eat?” is one of several games
goblins enjoy playing with their goblin dog pets, where a wide range of mouth-
sized morsels (not always edible or safe to consume) are dangled before a
goblin dog’s snout. “Will it die?” is often a game played after “Will it eat?”
Goblin dogs who survive the second game earn renown for their digestive
prowess and often become favored tribal pets treated better than most of the
rank-and-ﬁle goblins.
GOBLIN DOG
CREATURE 1
N
MEDIUM
ANIMAL
Perception +6; low-light vision, scent (imprecise) 30 feet
Skills Athletics +6, Stealth +7
Str +3, Dex +2, Con +2, Int –4, Wis +1, Cha –1
AC 17; Fort +8, Ref +8, Will +5
HP 17
Buck Ǻȓ DC 17
Irritating Dander A creature that hits the goblin dog
with an unarmed attack, tries to Grapple it, or otherwise
touches it is exposed to goblin pox.
Juke Ǻȓ Requirement A creature must be mounted on the goblin
dog. Trigger The rider issues a command to the goblin dog. Eﬀect
The goblin dog Steps before following the command.
Speed 40 feet
Melee Ȱɵ jaws +9, Damage 1d6+3 piercing plus goblin pox
Goblin Pox (disease); Goblins and goblin dogs are
immune to goblin pox. Saving Throw DC 17 Fortitude;
Stage 1 sickened 1 (1 round); Stage 2 sickened 1 and
slowed 1 (1 round); Stage 3 sickened 2 and
can’t reduce its sickened value below 1
(1 day).
Scratch ʚʖ (manipulate) The goblin
dog vigorously scratches itself, exposing
all adjacent creatures to goblin pox.
p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19669035
4425192
