p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19668862
4425019
A-C
9
Introduction
A-C
D
E-G
H-K
L-N
O-R
S-T
U-Z
Appendix
Melee Ȱɵ shortsword +9 (agile, ﬁnesse, lawful, magical, versatile S), Damage 1d6+1 piercing
plus 1d4 lawful
Divine Innate Spells DC 17; 4th read omens; 1st command, detect alignment (at will,
chaotic only), mending (×3)
Electrical Burst ʚʖ (divine, electricity, evocation) The arbiter releases an electrical burst
from its body that deals 3d6 electricity damage (DC 17 basic Reﬂex save). Following
such a burst, the arbiter becomes stunned for 24 hours.
Axiomite
According to the axiomites, their kind rose from the raw mathematical
underpinnings of the universe, manifesting as great builders who created the
ancient, colossal cities of the Outer Planes and gave life to the mechanical
inevitables. According to the aeons, axiomites are part of the Monad, having
both risen from and rebelled against it long ago. Since the Convergence, most
axiomites have recognized this as a fundamental truth, particularly after the aeons
showed the axiomites how the Utopian language has formed as an amalgam of
aeon envisioning and formulaic mathematical
expression. Most axiomites live in the perfect
city of Axis, which they continually act to improve,
thus reﬁning the concept of perfection itself.
A particular axiomite may look like any
humanoid creature, though the particular form it takes
on does not affect its abilities. Beneath this assumed form,
all axiomites are the same—clouds of glowing, crystalline
dust that constantly swirls and congeals into complex
tangles of symbols and equations, evincing their existence
as literal creatures of pure mathematical law.
Axiomites arise from the souls of lawful neutral mortals, particularly those
who were, in life, mathematicians, architects, crafters, or philosophers.
While these souls do not retain any memories of their lives in the transition
into axiomites, their life skills and experiences nevertheless serve a valuable
metaphysical resource during formation.
AXIOMITE
CREATURE 8
LN
MEDIUM
AEON
MONITOR
Perception +19; darkvision
Languages Abyssal, Celestial, Common, Draconic, Infernal, Utopian
Skills Acrobatics +16, Axis Lore +17, Craft +21, Diplomacy +15, Occultism +17,
Religion +17
Str +5, Dex +4, Con +3, Int +5, Wis +5, Cha +3
Items sterling artisan’s tools, +1 striking warhammer
AC 26; Fort +13, Ref +16, Will +18; +1 status to all saves vs. magic
HP 155; Immunities disease, emotion, fear; Weaknesses chaotic 10,
Resistances electricity 10, mental 10
Speed 25 feet
Melee Ȱɵ warhammer +20 (lawful, magical, shove), Damage 2d8+11
bludgeoning plus 1d6 lawful
Melee Ȱɵ ﬁst +17 (agile, lawful, magical), Damage 1d8+5 bludgeoning plus 1d6 lawful
Divine Innate Spells DC 27, attack +17; 5th telekinetic haul; 4th dispel magic, divine
wrath (lawful), lightning bolt (×3); 3rd haste (×3), paralyze; 2nd telekinetic maneuver;
1st true strike (at will); Cantrips (4th) telekinetic projectile
Crystalline Dust Form Ȱɵ (polymorph) The axiomite shifts between its humanoid form and
that of a cloud of crystalline dust in which strange symbols and equations ﬂash. In this
form it gains a ﬂy Speed of 40 feet and can ﬁt through even tiny apertures, similarly
to gaseous form. It can cast spells, but it can’t make melee or ranged attacks
in this state. It can return to its humanoid form by using this action while in
crystalline dust form.
AXIOMITES IN AXIS
On the planar metropolis of Axis,
an axiomite ﬁlls one of three roles:
construction and maintenance of
inevitables, building and repairing
Axis’s buildings, and exploring the
laws and constants that underlie all
of reality.
p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19668862
4425019
