p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19669131
4425288
Bestiary
278
REDCAP TREASURE
A redcap’s boots and cap are of
little value to other creatures, but
it carries a scythe and various
valuable trophies from its kills.
Redcap
Redcaps are sadistic and capricious fey who thrill in bloodletting and murder.
While they are most famous for appearing as wizened, bearded men, redcap
women are no less fearsome or cruel. Redcaps are ultimately craven bullies,
cowed by anything more powerful than themselves, a trait that leads them to fear
and despise the symbols of good deities. Many fairy tales explain how the redcaps
draw power from dipping the hats for which they are named in fresh blood. Just as
iconic to these cruel little fey are their iron-clad boots, and the clanging sound of
their metal soles clanking on stone ﬂoors is both discordant and disconcerting—
especially to those who recognize the sound for what it is. Redcaps typically stand
only 3 feet tall, with hunched frames, pointed ears, crooked teeth, and long, white,
tangled hair.
REDCAP
CREATURE 5
CE
SMALL
FEY
Perception +12; low-light vision
Languages Common, Sylvan
Skills Acrobatics +13, Athletics +15, Deception +11, Intimidation +13, Nature +10,
Stealth +13
Str +4, Dex +4, Con +2, Int +1, Wis +1, Cha +2
Items iron boots, red cap, scythe
Red Cap (necromancy, primal) A redcap’s woolen hat is dyed with the blood of its victims.
If the redcap loses its cap, it no longer beneﬁts from fast healing and takes a –4 status
penalty to its damage rolls. It can create a new cap in 10 minutes, but that cap doesn’t
grant its powers until the redcap has turned it red with Blood Soak. A cap has
no beneﬁt for creatures other than the redcap who made it.
AC 21; Fort +11, Ref +15, Will +10
HP 60, fast healing 10; Weaknesses cold iron 5, divine revulsion
Divine Revulsion (emotion, fear, mental) If a redcap sees a creature
brandish a religious symbol of a good deity (which requires an
interact action by that creature) or use one to cast a divine
spell, the redcap must attempt a DC 19 Will save. It then
becomes temporarily immune to all brandished religious
symbols for 10 minutes.
Critical Success The redcap is unaﬀected.
Success The redcap is frightened 2.
Failure The redcap gains the ﬂeeing condition for 1 round and
is frightened 4.
Speed 50 feet
Melee Ȱɵ scythe +15 (deadly 1d10, trip),
Damage 1d10+10 slashing
Melee Ȱɵ boot +13 (agile, versatile B),
Damage 1d6+8 piercing
Blood Soak Ȱɵ (manipulate) The redcap dips its
cap in the blood of a slain foe. The foe must have
died in the last minute, and the redcap must have
helped kill it. The redcap gains a +4 status bonus
to damage rolls for 1 minute.
Deadly Cleave Ǻȓ Trigger The redcap reduces a creature to 0 Hit
Points with a scythe Strike. Eﬀect The redcap makes another
scythe Strike against a diﬀerent creature, using the same multiple
attack penalty as the scythe Strike that triggered this reaction.
This counts toward its multiple attack penalty.
Stomp Ȱɵ The redcap Strides up to half its Speed and makes
a boot Strike at any point during that movement. If the boot
Strike hits a prone creature, it deals an extra 2d6 persistent
bleed damage.
REDCAP LOCATIONS
Unlike some fey, redcaps don’t
embody a particular natural
feature or environment, so they
can be found almost anywhere.
They tend to prefer areas that
allow them to hide or at least
get behind cover with their
quick movement, such as
forests, mountains,
and underground
tunnels and
caverns.
p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19669131
4425288
