p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19669109
4425266
Bestiary
256
MEGAFAUNA MOUNTS
Orcs are known for riding strange
and fearsome beasts, particularly
megafauna like dire wolves
(page 334) and smilodons (page
53). Given the opportunity, orcs
also enlist drakes, manticores, and
anything else big and frightening
enough to suit their needs.
Orc
Orcs are violent, monstrous humanoids that live by the rule that might makes
right. They amass in brutal warbands both large and small, decimating and
robbing those unlucky enough to cross their path. Countless small settlements,
outposts, and forts have fallen at the hands of orc raiders, whose fecundity and
sheer destructiveness leave an indelible mark on the lands they conquer. Survivors
of orc invasions are as likely to be fed to the orcs’ war beasts as they are to be
taken as slaves. Unspeakable atrocities await any outsiders brought back to orc
encampments, and to many, death is a far more preferable outcome compared to
capture by orcs.
Physically, orcs tower over most humanoids and look practically
custom-made for violence with their rough ﬂesh, sturdy bone, and iron‑hard
muscle. For all their tough looks, however, orcs are far from invincible.
They lack the discipline to conduct large-scale campaigns, for one thing,
and they typically lose their heads in the heat of battle. Even their skin scars
easily—though this is a source of pride to the orc people, since scars signify
strength and experience in battle. To orcs, the crisscross of old wounds are a
much a badge of pride and honor as any beheaded foe or claimed trophy.
Orcs are a people of violent passions in all that they do, not just war. Bonds
of blood are especially strong among orcs,
and lineage is important. The strongest
orc bands are typically made up of
brothers and sisters in more than
arms; orcs ﬁght harder when they
are protecting their own kinsfolk, and
orc warriors will ﬁght tirelessly to avenge fallen
family members. This emphasis on bloodlines is not
an altruistic one, however, and is in fact a double-edged
sword. Orcs whose families have been killed ﬁnd themselves
at the bottom of the clan’s totem pole, and even a famous
chieftain can become powerless overnight if their brethren aren’t there to
back them up.
The chaotic and fractious nature of orc culture results in a great
variety of beliefs, superstitions, and legacies among different clans. This
cultural divergence causes substantial inﬁghting among orc bands,
in many cases preventing the rise of larger orc nations. It can also
frustrate many attempts at diplomacy, as the taboos of one band
may be commonplace and thoroughly accepted practices among
others. Navigating a speciﬁc band’s culture can often mean the
difference between life and death to those who deal with
orcs off the ﬁeld of war. Although orcs, as a rule, rarely
deal with outsiders, they recognize the beneﬁts of trade
and willingly swap resources with other violent peoples
like hobgoblins, drow, and many humans.
Orc Brute
If orc armies are rarely well organized, this shortcoming can
likely be traced to the furious and undisciplined rank-and-ﬁle
brutes who make up the bulk of an orc warband.
ORC BRUTE
CREATURE 0
CE
MEDIUM
HUMANOID
ORC
Perception +5; darkvision
Languages Orc
Skills Athletics +5, Intimidation +2
Str +3, Dex +2, Con +3, Int –1, Wis +1, Cha +0
Items shoddy breastplate, javelin (3), orc knuckle dagger (2)
p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19669109
4425266
