p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19668907
4425064
Bestiary
54
Catfolk
Lithe and agile, with catlike features and long tails, the amurruns are wanderers,
explorers, and extroverts who share a gregarious nature and an unbridled
curiosity. This latter characteristic leads many individual amurruns into trouble,
yet this inquisitiveness is paired with a penchant for good fortune that offsets
much of their self-induced peril. They accept the term “catfolk” as a name for
their people with grace and a hint of amusement.
Ever eager to explore and learn, catfolk have spread to other parts of the world
from their native nations in the southern tropics, yet never in large groups. A lone
catfolk can be found anywhere in the world, but it’s rare to ﬁnd a settlement beyond
their traditional national borders. This is due to their innate wanderlust and insatiable
wonder. As many a catfolk might say, “I’ve lived with my people my whole life, but
you? You’re new and different! There’s so much to learn from you!”
Longstanding amurrun legends claim the catfolk were ﬁrst created as guardians
and were then charged with protecting the world from those sinister forces
that exist at its fringes. Often, this charge manifests as a longstanding
opposition to cultists of demon lords, archdevils, and other
ﬁendish demigods. Many catfolk worship the spirits
of creation, using serendipitous rituals to attract
good fortune and banish ill luck in the spirits’
name, while others venerate their own
small pantheon of divinities. Those who
travel often ﬁnd comfort in the worship
of Desna, whose teachings closely match
their own predilections.
Catfolk adapt well to adventuring roles,
and can be quite diverse in their areas
of study and specialization. Those who
follow the traditions of rangers and rogues are
perhaps the most commonly encountered, but not
overwhelmingly so. Their natural curiosity leads some
catfolk to take up mystical arts, training as wizards or following
a divine path to become clerics.
catfolk pouncer
Catfolk pouncers travel the world in search of new experiences.
CATFOLK POUNCER
CREATURE 1
CG
MEDIUM
CATFOLK
HUMANOID
Perception +6; low-light vision
Languages Amurrun, Common
Skills Acrobatics +7, Athletics +6, Nature +4, Stealth +7, Survival +4
Str +3, Dex +4, Con +1, Int –1, Wis +1, Cha +1
Items greataxe, leather armor, spear (3)
AC 17; Fort +6, Ref +9, Will +4
HP 19
Cat’s Luck Ǻȓ (fortune) Trigger The catfolk pouncer fails or
critically fails a Reﬂex saving throw. Frequency Once per day. Eﬀect Reroll
that saving throw and take the better result.
Speed 30 feet
Melee Ȱɵ greataxe +8 (sweep), Damage 1d12+3 slashing
Melee Ȱɵ dagger +9 (agile, ﬁnesse, versatile S), Damage 1d4+3 piercing
Ranged Ȱɵ dagger +9 (agile, thrown 10 feet, versatile S), Damage 1d4
+3 piercing
Sudden Charge ʚʖ The catfolk pouncer Strides up to double their
Speed. If the catfolk ends their movement within melee reach of at
least one enemy, they can make a melee Strike against that enemy.
THE CATFOLK NATION
Catfolk claim to hail from a far-
oﬀ nation called Murraseth in
southern Garund. It is a nation
rumored to hold a dark secret at
its center, the details of which
its discreet inhabitants do not
willingly divulge to outsiders.
Indeed, few adventurers from the
Inner Sea region have managed
to gain entrance to Murraseth, let
alone discover any of its mysteries.
p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19668907
4425064
