p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19668901
4425058
Bestiary
48
BULETTE APPETITES
Although bulettes will eat almost
any living creature that they
can catch within their vicious
jaws, most of them have a
particular fondness for the ﬂesh
of halﬂings or horses. Lacking
other food, a bulette might gnaw
upon vegetable matter or even
inanimate objects, although they
don’t gain actual nourishment from
doing so, this need to feed being
merely an extension of a deeply
compelling instinct.
Bulette
Bulettes are fearsome predators that roam just beneath the surface of desolate
wilderness areas. When they burrow through the ground, only the ﬁn of their
thickly armored backs protrudes above—at least until they are ready to leap out
and strike their prey. Their appearance, appetite, and iconic dorsal ﬁn have earned
the nickname “landshark.”
A typical bulette claims a territory of approximately 500 square miles.
When it ﬁnds an area rich in food, such as a farming village, it adds that
area to its regular patrol route. Over the course of a few months, it can wipe
entire settlements off the map. Bulettes are ﬁercely competitive creatures that
battle relentlessly with other predators in their territory. They actively avoid
contact or conﬂict with other members of their kind unless seeking a mate.
Bulette pairs share territory and mate for life—a mated pair of bulettes being
the only known exception to the creature’s penchant for solitude. They rear
their young for a short period of time. The mated pair instruct the young
bulette how to hunt, teaching their spawn which creatures are easiest to kill
and which creatures to avoid. The mated pair drive off their young after its
ﬁrst successful hunt.
The ﬁrst bulettes were magically created guardians, intended to serve as
frightening pets for a power-hungry and sadistic wizard. The technique for
their creation, as well as their original purpose, has since been lost to history,
and multiple conﬂicting accounts of ancient texts exist with dozens of wizards
claiming to have been the ﬁrst inventor of the notorious beast. Some sages
postulate that the original inventor may have been an elf—a theory born out
of little more than the curious fact that bulettes, for all their ravenous nature,
seem to ﬁnd elf ﬂesh unpalatable. Unfortunately for elves who stumble into a
bulette’s path, bulettes are no less likely to kill them than any other intruder,
simply leaving the bodies unconsumed where they fall.
BULETTE
CREATURE 8
N
HUGE
ANIMAL
Perception +16; darkvision, scent (imprecise) 30 feet
Skills Acrobatics +16, Athletics +21
Str +7, Dex +2, Con +6, Int –4, Wis +2, Cha –2
AC 30; Fort +20, Ref +16, Will +14
HP 120
Speed 40 feet, burrow 30 feet; powerful jumper
Melee Ȱɵ jaws +21, Damage 2d10+10 piercing
Melee Ȱɵ claw +21 (agile), Damage 2d8+10 slashing
Favored Prey A bulette gains a +1 circumstance
bonus to attack and damage rolls with its jaws
against a speciﬁc type of creature designated
as its favorite food. Unless otherwise stated,
a bulette’s favored prey is halﬂings. Elves
are never a favored prey for bulettes.
Leaping Charge ʚʖ The bulette attempts a
High Jump or Long Jump. If it’s adjacent to an
enemy at the apex of its High Jump or at the end of
its Long Jump, it can make a claw Strike against the
enemy at that moment. If the bulette jumps at least
5 feet vertically or at least 20 feet horizontally, it can
attempt two claw Strikes instead of one. The bulette’s
multiple attack penalty doesn’t increase until it
has made all the claw Strikes that are part of its
Leaping Charge.
Powerful Jumper A bulette jumps 10 feet up on a
successful High Jump, or 20 feet up on a critical success.
p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19668901
4425058
