p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19669147
4425304
Bestiary
294
SHULN RESOURCES
Adventurers who fear encounters
with cave worms might seek out a
shuln and attempt to lure it along
or magically compel it to aid in
the ﬁght to come, but the shulnʼs
stubborn personality makes such
eﬀorts diﬃcult and unreliable.
More often, acquiring the shulnʼs
saliva is an easier tactic, although
the poison must be alchemically
preserved if it is to be used as
an injury poison, for this foul-
smelling liquid breaks down
quickly once it drools from the
shuln’s toothy maw.
Shuln
Scourges of the upper Darklands, these enormous, mole-like monstrosities slice
and burrow through solid stone with massive forearms and adamantine-strong
claws. Shulns grow to about 20 feet long and have four tiny, nearly imperceptible
eyes; a long, pale snout; four thick-muscled legs that end in long, serrated claws;
and a stubby pink tail. As a young shuln matures, its unique metabolism produces
adamantine that becomes infused throughout its skeletal system. In addition to
making their claws and fangs nearly unbreakable, this unique physiological trait
makes shulns unparalleled burrowers and highly sought by monster hunters who
hope to harvest the precious material from their corpses.
Shulns have a ravenous appetite and eat nearly anything they can catch, but
their preferred diet consists almost entirely of large invertebrates, especially
cave worms. They rely on tiny sensory whiskers that cover their snout  and
allow them to detect subtle movements in the air and ground without the
use of vision. When it detects suitable prey, a shuln bites the target at the ﬁrst
opportunity, injecting it with a potent paralytic toxin present in its saliva. So
strong is this poison that it is capable of subduing even the near-unstoppable
purple worm, making the shuln a valuable (if dangerous) companion to have
for anyone making excursions into worm-infested regions of the Darklands.
Shulns’ notoriously ill-tempered dispositions and their knack for digging into
areas of an underground settlement where digging ought not occur makes them
frustrating creatures to keep around, but when the alternative is an unpredictable
but deadly visit from an enormous, hungry cave worm, the annoyances are well
worth the trouble.
Encounters with much larger shuln-like entities on the Plane of Earth suggest
that these creatures may have originated from that place. The larger shulns still
retain their elemental qualities, are quite a bit smarter, and have their own suite
of earth-themed innate primal spells—but for all that, they still love the taste of
cave worm.
SHULN
CREATURE 12
RARE
N
HUGE
BEAST
Perception +20; scent 30 feet, tremorsense (imprecise) 60 feet
Skills Athletics +25, Survival +22
Str +7, Dex +4, Con +6, Int –3, Wis +4, Cha +1
AC 33; Fort +25, Ref +19, Will +21
HP 195; Resistances physical 10 (except
adamantine or bludgeoning), poison 15
Speed 40 feet, burrow 20 feet;
unstoppable burrow
Melee Ȱɵ adamantine claw +25 (agile,
reach 15 feet), Damage 3d8+10 slashing
Melee Ȱɵ adamantine fangs +25 (reach 15 feet),
Damage 3d10+10 piercing plus shuln saliva
Armor-Rending Any time the shuln scores a critical
hit with a melee Strike, it also deals the same amount
of damage to the target’s armor, bypassing any Hardness lower
than 10, like adamantine.
Shuln Saliva
(incapacitation,
poison);
Saving Throw DC 32 Fortitude; Maximum
Duration 6 rounds; Stage 1 2d6 poison
damage and slowed 1 (1 round); Stage 2 3d6
poison damage, and slowed 1 (1 round); Stage 3 4d6 poison damage
and paralyzed for 2d6 hours. Shuln saliva overcomes the inexorable ability.
Unstoppable Burrow Shulns can burrow into solid rock and any metal with a hardness
less than that of adamantine like it is soil or loose rubble, leaving a tunnel 10 feet
in diameter.
p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19669147
4425304
