p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19669015
4425172
Bestiary
162
Genie
A unique type of genie exists for each Elemental Plane, and the bodies of genies
are formed out of elemental matter corresponding to their native plane: djinn
are formed from wind, clouds, and storms; efreet are ﬁre made ﬂesh; marids are
beings of water; and shaitans are composed of metal, gems, and stone. Lastly, the
jann are formed out of all four elements, and are the weakest of geniekind.
Genie Nobles
Genie nobles with titles unique to their kind (as detailed in each sidebar) rule genie
society. Genie nobles are generally at least 5 levels higher than a typical example
of their kind. In addition to the increased statistics afforded by their higher levels,
genie nobles gain additional spells. But the most wondrous (and
notorious) of a genie noble’s powers is their ability to grant
wishes. Any genie noble (save for jann, who lack this power)
can grant a mortal or undead creature up to three wishes within
a year’s time. Many unscrupulous creatures compel genie nobles
to serve them, tricking them or entrapping them with magic. However,
once a genie noble grants a third wish to a single creature, they are
freed from service to that creature forever.
Janni
Jann are genies composed of all four elements, meaning they are not
quite home on any of the Elemental Planes. Instead, jann reside on the
Material Plane, making only brief forays to the other parts
of the Inner Sphere. Although they are human in size and
appearance, jann are not at all related to humans and
bristle at any claims to this effect. They are a proud people
and take great care to maintain their honor—restoring that
honor with the edge of a sword, if necessary.
JANNI
CREATURE 4
N
MEDIUM
ELEMENTAL
GENIE
Perception +11; darkvision
Languages Common, one elemental language (Aquan,
Auran, Ignan, or Terran), one planar language (Abyssal,
Celestial, or Infernal); telepathy 100 feet
Skills Acrobatics +8, Arcana +10, Crafting +8,
Deception +7, Survival +11
Str +4, Dex +2, Con +2, Int +2, Wis +3, Cha +1
Items composite shortbow (20 arrows), scimitar
AC 20; Fort +12, Ref +10, Will +11
HP 60; Resistances ﬁre 5
Elemental Endurance A janni can survive on any Elemental
Plane for up to 48 hours, after which it takes 1 damage per hour
until it leaves or dies.
Speed 20 feet, ﬂy 15 feet
Melee Ȱɵ scimitar +14 (forceful +1, sweep), Damage 1d6+10 slashing
Melee Ȱɵ ﬁst +14 (agile, magical, nonlethal), Damage 1d4+10 bludgeoning
Ranged
Ȱɵ
composite
shortbow
+12
(deadly
1d10,
propulsive,
range increment 60 feet, reload 0), Damage 1d6+5 piercing
Arcane Innate Spells DC 21; 7th plane shift (to Astral Plane,
Elemental Planes, or Material Plane only); 2nd create food,
invisibility (×3), speak with animals; 1st create water
Change Size ʚʖ (arcane, concentrate, polymorph, transmutation);
Frequency Once per day. Eﬀect The janni changes a creature’s
size. This works as a 4th-level enlarge or shrink spell but can target
an unwilling creature (DC 21 Fortitude save negates).
DJINNI VIZIERS
Djinni viziers prefer to manifest
wishes in physical, often gaudy
displays, but cut corners in
quality. Wished-for gold, for
example, might only be gold
plated (and still valuable), not
solid gold. Djinni viziers add the
following to their innate spells:
5th summon giants, tongues.
p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19669015
4425172
