p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19669059
4425216
Bestiary
206
HOBGOBLINS AND MAGIC
Hobgoblins generally distrust magic,
especially arcane magic, which
they derisively call “elf magic.”
In the absence of magic, they
wholeheartedly embrace alchemy,
combining it with their natural
aptitude for engineering to great
destructive eﬀect. They grudgingly
accept divine magic, due to a
grudging respect for the power of
healing magic in times of war.
Hobgoblin
Hobgoblins may appear to outsiders to be the most civilized of goblinkind, but
their civilization is hardly one of kindness and equality—instead, they revel
in all that is militaristic, tyrannical, cruel, and destructive. Hobgoblins are
singularly devoted to war, and their entire culture is built upon fostering and
maintaining conﬂict while simultaneously proving their superiority in battle.
Hobgoblins are highly organized, and they work efﬁciently and effectively in
groups, whether that group is a small raiding party, a roving war band, or
a fully regimented army. Hobgoblin rulers require little provocation before
declaring war, and more often than not, such wars are waged to gain slaves or
territory. Physically, hobgoblins stand about as tall as humans and have gray,
ashen skin.
Hobgoblin society is organized along military lines, and every hobgoblin
is effectively a member of the army. Each hobgoblin in a community has a
rank in the military hierarchy, and individuals are naturally ambitious and
obsessed with advancement. Hobgoblins are constantly expected to prove that
they’re fearless, ruthless, cunning, and strong. Demonstrating such aptitudes
is an individual hobgoblin’s best hope for promotion through the ranks, but
failure leads only to cruel exploitation at the hands of their superiors. Though
brutal, hobgoblin society is a true meritocracy, and all hobgoblins, regardless
of age, gender, or birth, wield authority and earn respect from their peers
based on their skill in battle. Even those individuals who serve in non-combat
roles in hobgoblin society—blacksmiths, builders, cooks, messengers,
quartermasters, and the like—know that they perform vital jobs that
support the larger hobgoblin army, though they rarely rise above the
rank of common soldier. Everyone contributes to the larger
whole, ensuring that hobgoblin society is the strongest and
most efﬁcient it can be, and anyone who fails to do so
is culled from the army and this hobgoblin society as
dead weight. Hobgoblins don’t usually engage in trade
with other races, or even with other hobgoblin tribes,
preferring to take what they want by force.
Hobgoblin Soldier
Soldiers make up the bulk of hobgoblin society,
whether that society is a village or a military unit.
HOBGOBLIN SOLDIER
CREATURE 1
LE
MEDIUM
GOBLIN
HUMANOID
Perception +7; darkvision
Languages Common, Goblin
Skills Athletics +6, Stealth +6
Str +3, Dex +3, Con +2, Int +0, Wis +2, Cha –1
Items hide armor, longsword, shortbow (10 arrows), wooden
shield (Hardness 3, HP 12, BT 6)
AC 18 (20 with shield raised); Fort +5, Ref +6, Will +5
HP 20
Attack of Opportunity Ǻȓ
Shield Block Ǻȓ
Formation When it’s adjacent to at least two other allies, the
hobgoblin soldier gains a +1 circumstance bonus to AC
and saving throws. This bonus increases to +2 to Reﬂex
saves against area eﬀects.
Speed 25 feet
Melee Ȱɵ longsword +8 (versatile P), Damage 1d8+3 slashing
Ranged Ȱɵ shortbow +8 (deadly 1d10, range increment 60
feet, reload 0), Damage 1d6 piercing
p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19669059
4425216
