p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19668865
4425022
Bestiary
12
Alghollthu
In bygone millennia, aquatic monsters known as alghollthus used their occult
powers to conquer and rule vast parts of the world. Their empires contained
countless mortal slaves treated as little more than cattle. Alghollthus shaped their
slaves and other creatures using mental manipulation and physically transformative
magic. Aberrant horrors from faceless stalkers to mimics can be traced back to this
meddling. The rulers of the alghollthu race, the so-called veiled masters, further
shaped entire societies by assuming the forms of those they controlled. From the
heights of power to the shadows of poverty, the veiled masters manipulated these
societies according to their own dark designs, enslaving, killing, or horriﬁcally
transforming those who discovered their plans or acted against them.
In time, the alghollthus grew frustrated with their increasingly upstart slave
societies and sought to wipe the slate clean—both starting anew and punishing
those who had become too willful and rebellious. They used incredible magical
power to call forth a cataclysm, hoping to destroy the rebellious societies they’d
manipulated. Yet they miscalculated the strength of faith and will to survive of
their pawns and slaves, and in time the world and its empires recovered and grew
strong once again—this time without alghollthu inﬂuence.
Today, the alghollthus have retreated from their mass-scale manipulation
of the surface world, and they have mostly remained within the deep aquatic
realms where they still rule without question. Yet they have not abandoned their
plots entirely, and the reemergence of servitor races like ugothols points to a
frightening possibility—that the alghollthus have turned their hateful eyes to the
surface once again.
Skum (Ulat-Kini)
The most numerous of the alghollthus are the
ulat-kinis, a servitor race created from human stock
to serve as rank-and-ﬁle soldiers in alghollthu armies.
At the zenith of alghollthu power, ulat-kinis formed
massive legions and enjoyed signiﬁcant power over other species. When the
alghollthus retreated from the world, they abandoned teeming hordes of ulat-
kinis. Although these erstwhile soldiers tried to continue their conquering
ways, their numbers declined rapidly in battleﬁeld defeats and purposeful
exterminations enacted by their enemies. Ulat-kini society
degenerated, so that now only a few enclaves exist
in the depths of the earth or along isolated
coastlines. Few remember their own species’
name, instead using the epithet their foes
gave them: “skum.”
SKUM
CREATURE 2
LE
MEDIUM
AMPHIBIOUS
HUMANOID
Perception +6; darkvision
Languages Alghollthu, Undercommon
Skills Athletics +8, Intimidation +4, Stealth +7
Str +4, Dex +1, Con +3, Int +0, Wis +0, Cha –2
Items trident
AC 16; Fort +7, Ref +7, Will +4
HP 40; Resistances cold 5
Speed 20 feet, swim 40 feet
Melee Ȱɵ trident +10, Damage 1d8+4 piercing
Melee Ȱɵ claw +10 (agile), Damage 1d6+4
slashing
Melee Ȱɵ fangs +10, Damage 2d4+4 piercing
Ranged Ȱɵ trident +7 (thrown 20 feet),
Damage 1d8+3 piercing
ALGHOLLTHU DOMAINS
The ruling castes of the alghollthu
species dwell in oceanic depths
or underground waterways, while
their servitors like ulat-kinis and
ugothols can often be found in
coastal regions and marshes.
p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19668865
4425022
