p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19669093
4425250
Bestiary
240
ASSOCIATED MONSTERS
A mummy guardian might serve
alongside a mummy pharaoh or
with zombies, skeletons, animated
objects, or any other undead or
constructs that might be found in
their tomb lairs.
Mummy
While many cultures practice mummiﬁcation of the dead for benign reasons,
undead mummies are created through foul rituals, typically to provide eternally
vigilant guardians.
Mummy Guardian
The majority of mummies were created by cruel and selﬁsh masters to serve as
guardians to protect their tombs from intruders. The traditional method of creating
a mummy guardian is a laborious and sadistic process that begins well before the
poor soul to be transformed is dead, during which the victim is ritualistically
starved of nourishing food and instead fed strange spices, preservative agents,
and toxins intended to quicken the desiccation of the ﬂesh. The victim remains
immobile but painfully aware during the ﬁnal stages, where its now-useless entrails
are extracted before it’s shrouded in funerary wrappings and entombed within a
necromantically ensorcelled sarcophagus to await intrusions in
the potentially distant future. While it’s certainly possible
to use other methods to create a mummy guardian from
an already-deceased body, those who seek to create these
foul undead as their guardians in the afterlife often feel
that such methods result in inferior undead—the pain and
agony of death by mummiﬁcation being an essential step in
the process.
Regardless of the method of their creation, mummy guardians are
more than just physical shells of ﬂesh and bone—they retain fragmented,
distorted versions of their minds, with only enough memories of their
living personality remaining to fuel their undead anger and jealousy of
those who yet live. This burning rage only intensiﬁes over the centuries of
waiting within a crypt for the chance to actually act, and thus when most mummy
guardians are awoken by tomb robbers or adventurers, they stop at nothing in
pursuit of glorious slaughter.
MUMMY GUARDIAN
CREATURE 6
LE
MEDIUM
MUMMY
UNDEAD
Perception +16; darkvision
Languages Necril, plus any one ancient language
Skills Athletics +15, Stealth +11
Str +4, Dex +0, Con +2, Int –2, Wis +4, Cha +2
AC 23; Fort +14, Ref +10, Will +16
HP 110, negative healing; Immunities death eﬀects, disease, paralyzed, poison,
unconscious; Weaknesses ﬁre 5
Despair (aura, divine, emotion, enchantment, fear, incapacitation, mental) 30 feet. Living
creatures are frightened 1 while in a mummy guardian’s despair aura. They can’t
naturally recover from this fear while in the area but recover instantly once they
leave the area. When a creature ﬁrst enters the area, it must succeed at a DC 22 Will
save (after taking the penalty from being frightened) or be paralyzed for 1 round. The
creature is then temporarily immune for 24 hours.
Speed 20 feet
Melee Ȱɵ ﬁst +16, Damage 2d6+7 bludgeoning plus mummy rot
Mummy Rot (curse, disease, divine, necromancy, negative) This disease and any
damage from it can’t be healed until this curse is removed. A creature killed by
mummy rot turns to dust and can’t be resurrected except by a 7th-level resurrect
ritual or similar magic. Saving Throw DC 22 Fortitude; Stage 1 carrier with no ill
eﬀect (1 minute); Stage 2 4d6 negative damage and stupeﬁed 1 (1 day)
Mummy Pharaoh
While mummy guardians are undead crafted from the corpses of
sacriﬁced—usually unwilling victims—and retain only fragments of their
p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19669093
4425250
