p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19668860
4425017
7
Introduction
A-C
D
E-G
H-K
L-N
O-R
S-T
U-Z
Appendix
Languages
The languages listed in a creature’s entry are what a typical
creature of that type knows. However, you might want to
vary these based on the speciﬁc creature. For instance, if
a creature is interested in speaking with or understanding
the people in its region, it would most likely know the
language those people speak. This language is most often
Common, but you can give it a more appropriate language
depending on what region the creature lives in (such as
Undercommon if the creature lives in the Darklands).
Beings from other planes are unlikely to know any
languages from the Material Plane unless they frequently
travel there. If such a creature knows a mortal language,
then that creature likely is interested in communicating
with mortals. This language is most often Common,
although such keep in mind that such a creature should
speak Common only if it speciﬁcally travels to or studies
your campaign’s world and region above others.
The languages in Pathﬁnder can be found on
page 65 of the Pathﬁnder Core Rulebook and in the
New Languages section of this book (page 348).
Gear
Some creatures rely on gear, like armor and weapons. You
might need statistics for such a creature that doesn’t have
its gear. For example, a creature could be Disarmed, it
might be ambushed while it’s out of its armor, or one of its
worn magic items could be disabled with dispel magic. In
most cases, you can simply improvise, but if you want to be
more exacting, use these guidelines for weapons and armor.
If a creature loses its weapon, it might draw another
weapon or use an unarmed attack. If it uses a Strike it
doesn’t have listed in its stat block, ﬁnd a Strike entry
for the creature that most closely matches the substitute,
reduce the attack modiﬁer by 2, and use the damage
dice for the new Strike. If the creature needs to make an
unarmed attack and doesn’t have one listed in its stat
block, it uses the statistics for a ﬁst (Core Rulebook 280).
If the creature loses a weapon with a weapon potency
rune, you usually should reduce the attack modiﬁer by 2
plus the bonus granted by the weapon’s potency rune for
the new weapon. For example, if the creature is Disarmed
of its +1 mace, then you would reduce the attack modiﬁer
by 3 instead of 2 for the new Strike.
If a creature doesn’t have its armor, ﬁnd the armor in
its Items entry and reduce the creature’s AC by that
armor’s item bonus (Core Rulebook 275). If the armor
has a potency rune, increase the reduction as appropriate;
for example, if the creature has a suit of +2 chain mail in
its statistics, and the characters catch the creature without
its armor, you would reduce the creature’s AC by 6 instead
of 4. If the armor has a resilient rune, reduce the creature’s
saves based on the rune’s type (1 for resilient, 2 for greater
resilient, or 3 for major resilient).
Skills, Perception, and Proficiency
In some situations, such as when a creature is trying to
Disable a PC’s snare, you need to know the creature’s
proﬁciency rank. Creatures are trained in the skills listed in
their stat blocks. Because monsters aren’t created using the
same rules as PCs, they are untrained in skills that aren’t
listed. A creature usually has expert proﬁciency in its listed
skills around 5th level, master proﬁciency around 9th level,
and legendary proﬁciency around 17th level. A creature
might need a certain proﬁciency rank in Perception to detect
certain things. Many creatures have expert proﬁciency in
Perception, and improve to master proﬁciency around 7th
level and legendary proﬁciency around 13th level.
At your discretion, creatures with world-class aptitude at
a particular skill or in Perception, such as a doppelganger
with Deception, might have a higher rank in that skill
or Perception.
Sidebar Icons
Each sidebar in a creature section is marked with an icon
identifying the type of information it contains.
Advice and Rules
Related Creatures
Additional Lore
Treasure and Rewards
Locations
p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19668860
4425017
