p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19668889
4425046
Bestiary
36
Barghest
Barghests are lupine ﬁends with goblinoid faces and humanoid hands. They stalk
the Material Plane in search of souls to sate their demonic hunger. Eons ago,
barghests dwelled in the pits of Hell and served Asmodeus, but after Lamashtu
abducted and adopted the four most powerful of their kind to serve as pets (and in
time, as a pantheon of hero-gods worshipped by evil goblins), barghests’ loyalties
and philosophical nature changed signiﬁcantly. Today, while barghests retain their
connection to goblinoids, they serve none but their own appetites.
Barghest
Typical barghests are ravenous gluttons of life who feed and grow on the fat of
mortals, their bodies changing in ways none can predict as they use the ﬂesh and
blood of their victims to achieve grisly transformations into greater barghests.
Barghests often make use of their shapechanging abilities to rule tribes of
goblinoids or to discreetly hunt in rural areas in the guise of unnaturally intelligent
wolves. They do not work well together, as each barghest wants all the kills for
itself; cannibalism is the typical result of too many barghests in one small area.
BARGHEST
CREATURE 4
CE
MEDIUM
FIEND
Perception +12; darkvision, scent (imprecise) 30 feet
Languages Abyssal, Common, Goblin
Skills Acrobatics +10, Deception +12, Diplomacy +9, Intimidation +11, Stealth +10,
Survival +8
Str +5, Dex +2, Con +3, Int +2, Wis +2, Cha +3
AC 21; Fort +11, Ref +12, Will +8
HP 50; Resistances ﬁre 5, physical 5 (except magical)
Attack of Opportunity Ǻȓ
Speed 25 feet
Melee Ȱɵ jaws +13, Damage 2d8+5 piercing
Melee Ȱɵ claw +13 (agile), Damage 2d6+5 slashing
Divine Innate Spells DC 21; 4th blink (at will), confusion, dimension door (self
only); 3rd levitate (at will); 1st charm
Change Shape Ȱɵ (concentrate, divine, polymorph, transmutation)
The barghest takes on the shape of a goblinoid (a goblin, hobgoblin,
or bugbear) or a wolf, or it transforms back into its true form. When
the barghest is a goblinoid, it loses its jaws and claw Strikes, it
becomes Small if it is a goblin, and its Speed changes to 20 feet.
When the barghest is a wolf, its Speed changes to 40 feet and
its jaws gain Knockdown. Each individual barghest has only one
goblinoid form and one wolf form.
Feed Once per month, a barghest can spend 1 minute to devour a
corpse, gaining a permanent +1 status bonus to its checks and DCs.
Each subsequent time it feeds, this bonus increases by 1. The fourth
time a barghest feeds, it sheds its skin and mutates into a greater
barghest, and the status bonus ends.
Greater Barghest
Once a barghest has eaten enough to grow into a
greater barghest, it typically seeks a method to
leave the Material Plane and return to the Abyss,
there joining other ﬁends as yet another of that
plane’s horrors. As barghests have no innate
ability to travel the planes, though, the
time it takes for most greater barghests
to engineer such a return can
usually be measured in years, if
BARGHEST HERO-GODS
The four barghests stolen from
Hell’s kennels by the deity
Lamashtu were not the originals of
their kind, but they were then and
remain today the most powerful.
Now they are denizens of the
Abyss, dwelling in their own realm
adjacent to Lamashtu’s domain,
and are heavily worshipped by
goblins across multiple worlds as
“hero-gods.” These four barghests
include Hadregash the slaver,
Venkelvore the torturer, Zarongel
the dog slayer, and Zogmugot
the scavenger.
p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19668889
4425046
