p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19668924
4425081
D
71
Introduction
A-C
D
E-G
H-K
L-N
O-R
S-T
U-Z
Appendix
cacodaemon grows a ﬁst-sized soul gem (Hardness 2, HP 8) in its gut and can regurgitate
it at any time as an Interact action. Destroying the gem frees the soul within but does
not return the deceased creature to life. The caster of a spell to return a creature to life
whose soul is trapped within a soul gem must succeed at a DC 30 Religion check. On a
success, the soul gem shatters and the creature is returned to life as normal for the spell.
By using an Interact action, a ﬁend can ingest a soul gem it is holding, condemning
the soul to the ﬁend’s home plane. The ﬁend gains fast healing 5 for 1 minute.
Ceustodaemon (Guardian Daemon)
Ceustodaemons are formed from the souls of vile mortals, particularly those who
took efforts to hasten their own death, their willingness shaping them into daemonic
servants. Their otherworldly senses make them useful for protecting vaults and similar
locations on the Material Plane. Ceustodaemons are created to serve, but always
seek ways to subvert their bindings, so they can rend their mortal summoners’
ﬂesh. The worst type of conjurer calls upon ceustodaemons merely to set them
free into the world in hopes of currying favor with the powers of Abaddon.
CEUSTODAEMON
CREATURE 6
NE
LARGE
DAEMON
FIEND
Perception +14; darkvision, see invisibility
Languages Common, Daemonic; telepathy 100 feet
Skills Deception +15, Intimidation +13, Stealth +12, Survival +10
Str +5, Dex +2, Con +4, Int +0, Wis +2, Cha + 3
AC 23; Fort +16, Ref +12, Will +12
HP 130; Immunities death eﬀects;
Weaknesses good 10
Speed 25 feet
Melee Ȱɵ jaws +16 (evil, reach 10 feet),
Damage 2d10+5 piercing plus 1d6 evil
and vicious wounds
Melee Ȱɵ claw +16 (agile, evil, magical, reach 10 feet), Damage 2d6+5 slashing plus
1d6 evil and vicious wounds
Divine Innate Spells DC 23; 7th ﬂy, 4th dimension door (at will), 3rd dispel
magic (×2), paralyze, 1st detect alignment (at will; good only); Constant
(2nd) see invisibility
Breath Weapon ʚʖ (divine, evocation, ﬁre) The ceustodaemon
breathes ﬂames in a 30-foot cone. Creatures in the cone take
7d6 ﬁre damage (DC 24 basic Reﬂex save). The ceustodaemon
and each creature that fails the save catch ﬁre, taking 2d6
persistent ﬁre damage. The breath weapon can’t be used
again for 1d4 rounds.
Drawn to Service When bringing a ceustodaemon to another
plane with eﬀects like a planar binding or planar ally ritual,
the primary and secondary skill DCs are reduced by 5, and the
ceustodaemon demands only half the normal cost for its service.
Vicious Wounds On a successful jaws or claw Strike, the ceustodaemon
viciously tears into its victim as similar wounds appear on its
own body. The target takes an extra 1d6 amount of damage,
and the ceustodaemon takes the same extra damage. If this
extra damage to the target is doubled, due to a critical
hit, the ceustodaemon takes double damage as well.
Leukodaemon (Pestilence Daemon)
These skull-headed, vulture-winged daemons are harbingers of
pestilence and servants of their patron Horseman, Apollyon. Manifestations of evil
souls who perished from disease in life, leukodaemons work tirelessly to spread
disease across all the worlds of the multiverse. More than any other daemon,
SOUL GEMS AS TREASURE
Soul gems are traded in illicit
markets, a tradition celestials and
psychopomps alike ﬁnd vile. Soul
gems’ value varies, but is generally
worth an amount relative to the
level of a gem’s captive soul.
p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19668924
4425081
