p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19669095
4425252
Bestiary
242
NAGAS AND OTHERS
Dark nagas might rule over goblins
(page 180), orcs (page 256),
xulgaths (page 336), or decadent
folk, especially corrupt aristocrats.
Guardian nagas might be found
with other goodly creatures of any
sort, from fey in natural sites to
constructs in ancient vaults.
Naga
Nagas are serpentine beings with magical powers and keen, nearly inscrutable
intellects. Physically, they resemble massive snakes with eerie visages that resemble
those of humans. Nagas use their innate magic and poisonous fangs to keep all
but the most stalwart foes at bay. Beyond the natural weapons they use to ward
away foes, little is understood of the naga’s unsettling physiology.
Nagas are intelligent creatures with powerful needs to pursue, be they the
accumulation of knowledge, the collection of rare art, or the rule of an entire
nation. On Golarion, the nation of Nagajor is one such society—an entire empire
ruled by nagas and populated by reptilian humanoids who serve their naga rulers
with a patriotic pride that borders on worship.
Still, most adventurers interact with nagas on a much smaller scale, encountering
them as dangerous guardians in remote locations or not-so-abandoned ruins.
In many cases, these nagas have heard of distant Nagajor, but they are usually
unwilling to abandon their own pursuits to seek out a land where they might be
worshipped as gods.
Dark Naga
Dark nagas are wicked, jealous creatures that crave power and wealth. Indeed,
the dark naga sees such ideals as spiritual expressions of an essential truth: if
one can take something, that something is theirs to have. The dark naga sees
other creatures as lessers worthy only of subjugation or as rivals who must
be eliminated.
Dark nagas dwell in remote places other creatures have forsaken,
searching abandoned ruins for wealth and potent magic items. Those
unlucky trespassers into a dark naga’s lair typically ﬁnd themselves as
the naga’s slaves or playthings, put to sleep with the monster’s poison or
incinerated by its deadly magic. Some dark nagas are more disposed
toward socializing than others; in these cases, they may become
wicked despots who rule over enclaves of captive or unsuspecting
subjects. Subtler dark nagas, especially those who crave ﬁner
luxuries, dwell in or under the wealthy settlements and use their
wiles to garner a decadent following, forming something
akin to a cult with the naga as the jewelry-bedecked object
of worship.
DARK NAGA
CREATURE 7
UNCOMMON
LE
LARGE
ABERRATION
Perception +15; mind reading 30 feet, darkvision
Languages Aklo, Common
Skills Acrobatics +17, Arcana +16, Athletics +13, Deception +16,
Intimidation +16, Stealth +19
Str +2, Dex +6, Con +4, Int +3, Wis +2, Cha +3
AC 27; Fort +15, Ref +17, Will +15; guarded thoughts
HP 115
Guarded Thoughts (abjuration, occult) Dark nagas are immune to
any form of mind reading.
Speed 30 feet
Melee Ȱɵ fangs +19 (agile, ﬁnesse), Damage 2d8+5 piercing plus
dark naga venom
Arcane Spontaneous Spells DC 26, attack +18; 4th (3 slots) blink,
wall of ﬁre; 3rd (4 slots) dispel magic, haste, lightning bolt; 2nd
(4 slots) illusory creature, invisibility, magic missile; 1st (4 slots)
feather fall, illusory object, longstrider; Cantrips (4th) daze,
detect magic, mage hand, read aura, shield
Occult Innate Spells DC 25; Constant (3rd) mind reading
Dark Naga Venom (incapacitation, poison) Saving Throw
p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19669095
4425252
