p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19669057
4425214
Bestiary
204
HARPY EXILES
Most harpies are cruel and
sadistic, but now and then a harpy
manages to escape from its family
and becomes exposed to the
wider world. Eyes opened, these
harpy exiles are almost always
more mild-mannered,
cleanly, and open
to non-combat
interactions.
Harpy
Harpies are ﬁlthy amalgamations of human and bird, resembling feral humans
with wings, talons, and mouths full of sharp teeth. They use captivating songs
to lure creatures in, then murder them while they stand transﬁxed. They enjoy
causing confusion and fear in their prey before they strike, believing it creates a
savory ﬂavor in the ﬂesh. Harpies can eat most creatures but strongly prefer sapient
prey—humans and elves are their favorite. Although harpies will eat goblins if
sufﬁciently hungry, they dislike their ﬂavor and avoid eating them if possible. This
doesn’t comfort goblins, of course, who have a particularly strong fear of harpies.
Because their aeries often reek with the gore of their kills and careless spatters
of guano, harpies carry a distinctly vile scent that canny travelers associate with
danger. Harpies who roost close to civilization make better efforts to keep
clean, though these efforts have mixed results.
Harpies live in family groups or larger clans. They
are lightweight despite their size, standing 5 feet tall
and weighing only around 90 pounds. While most use
relatively simple weapons, some harpies take pride in
learning and mastering the use of more complex tools of
war such as swords and slings. Those who master the use of
the bow, in particular, are often regarded as heroes among
their kind and terrors among their victims.
HARPY
CREATURE 5
CE
MEDIUM
HUMANOID
Perception +12; darkvision
Languages Common
Skills Acrobatics +13, Deception +13, Intimidation
+11, Performance +14 (+16 singing)
Str +1, Dex +4, Con +0, Int –1, Wis +1, Cha +4
Items club
AC 22; Fort +9, Ref +15, Will +12
HP 68
Speed 20 feet, ﬂy 60 feet
Melee Ȱɵ club +12, Damage 1d6+4 bludgeoning
Melee Ȱɵ talon +15 (agile, ﬁnesse), Damage
2d6+4 slashing
Ranged Ȱɵ club +15 (thrown 10 feet), Damage 1d6+4
bludgeoning
Captivating
Song
Ȱɵ
(auditory,
concentrate,
enchantment, incapacitation, mental, primal) The
harpy cries out an eerie, compelling melody. Each
non-harpy creature within a 300-foot aura must attempt
a DC 21 Will save to avoid becoming captivated by the
harpy’s song. The eﬀect lasts for 1 round, but if
the harpy uses this ability again on subsequent
rounds, it extends the duration by 1 round
for all aﬀected creatures. Once a creature
succeeds at any save against Captivating
Song, that creature is temporarily immune
to Captivating Songs for 24 hours.
Success The creature is unaﬀected.
Failure The creature is fascinated, and it must spend each of its actions to move closer to
the harpy as expediently as possible, while avoiding obvious dangers. If a captivated
creature is adjacent to the harpy, it stays still and doesn’t act. If attacked by the harpy,
the creature is freed from captivation at the end of the harpy’s turn.
Critical Failure As failure, but if attacked by the harpy, the creature can attempt a new
save at the start of its next turn, rather than being freed at the end of the harpy’s turn.
p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19669057
4425214
