p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19669119
4425276
Bestiary
266
PROTEAN DIVINITIES
The most powerful of all proteans
are a group of demigods known
collectively as protean lords.
Yet even their vast might pales
in comparison to that of the
mysterious Speakers of the
Depths. The Speakers are the most
enigmatic of the Maelstrom’s gods—
even their exact nature is unknown,
and scholars disagree as to whether
they are even divinities or just
aspects of the Maelstrom itself.
Protean
Guardians of disorder and natives of the primal plane of chaos known as the
Maelstrom, proteans consider it their calling to spread bedlam and hasten entropic
ends. The most powerful proteans are demigods known collectively as the protean
lords, although they are mysterious entities whose cults on the Material Plane
tend to be obscure and secretive.
Proteans divide themselves into a loose caste system and possess a dizzying
variety of powers. Most proteans have a serpentine body with the head of a
primeval beast. Scholars have long been intrigued by this fact—that scions of
dissolution and disorder would share so many features—pointing out that even in
the purest chaos there is some semblance of order. Others note that the serpentine
form is one of the most primeval shapes, perhaps suggesting that in a reality at the
dawn of time, such shapes were all that could exist. The proteans themselves have
little to say on the matter, which, perhaps ironically, only adds to the confusion
and lack of consensus surrounding their kind. After all, if even chaos cannot be
trusted to be chaotic, would that not be the purest form of entropy?
Warpwaves
Many proteans can subject their foes to disorienting alterations perceived in time and
space by creating ripples of unstable reality in the environment called warpwaves.
When a creature fails its saving throw and is affected by a warpwave, roll 1d8 and
consult the table below for the speciﬁc effect on that creature. Unless indicated
otherwise, a warpwave effect lasts for 1d4 rounds, and a new warpwave effect
negates any previous warpwave effect already affecting a creature.
D8
Warpwave Eﬀect
1
Clumsy 2 (3 on a critical failure)
2
Confused and gains 4d6 temporary Hit Points
3
Dazzled (permanent on a critical failure)
4
Enfeebled 2 (3 on a critical failure)
5
Immobilized by ﬁlaments of energy
6
Quickened (Stride, Strike, or Step only)
7
Slowed 1
8
Stupeﬁed 2 (3 on a critical failure)
Voidworm
Other proteans don’t consider the ﬂying, iridescent beings known as voidworms
to be part of a protean caste at all, but instead merely a shameful side effect of
the Maelstrom’s constantly churning energy. To call a voidworm a protean in
the presence of a more powerful protean is as sure a way to instigate combat
as any.
Voidworms themselves have little interest in whether anyone sees them as
proteans. They maintain a thriving ecology in the Maelstrom, frolicking in
schools of up to 20 and playing in the chaos of constantly shifting realities.
Elsewhere (such as on the Material Plane), voidworms are mesmerized by the
principle of object permanence; many latch onto speciﬁc features of a region
(such as a hillside or pond) and ﬂit through the air around it for months or even
years as they wait for the object of their curiosity to change. Minor changes—
such as a tree’s change of color in the fall, a corpse’s slow decay, or periodic
venting of steam from a geyser—all fascinate voidworms. A voidworm is about
2 feet long and weighs 2 pounds.
VOIDWORM
CREATURE 1
CN
TINY
MONITOR
PROTEAN
Perception +4; entropy sense (imprecise) 30 feet, darkvision
PROTEAN NAMES
Individual proteans have two
names: a traditional name in
their hissing, confusing language;
and an honorary title. The latter
is easily translated to other
languages, but a protean’s
traditional name can only rarely be
uttered in any tongue other than
Protean. As such, most proteans
tend to go by their titles when
dealing with outsiders, referring to
themselves as, for example, “Song
of Gentle Poison” or “Sibilant Cry
of the Storm.”
OTHER PROTEANS
Many other proteans beyond
those presented here dwell in the
Maelstrom, including the spectral
pelagastrs, the nearly humanoid
shapechanging ourdivars, and the
incredibly powerful izﬁitars.
p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19669119
4425276
