p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19669197
4425354
Bestiary
344
regeneration is active. However, if it takes damage of a type
listed in the regeneration entry, its regeneration deactivates
until the end of its next turn. Deactivate the regeneration
before applying any damage of a listed type, since that
damage might kill the monster by bringing it to dying 4.
Rend Ȱɵ A Rend entry lists a Strike the monster has.
Requirements The monster hit the same enemy with two
consecutive Strikes of the listed type in the same round.
Eﬀect The monster automatically deals that Strike’s damage
again to the enemy.
Retributive Strike Ǻȓ Trigger An enemy damages the
monster’s ally, and both are within 15 feet of the monster.
Eﬀect The ally gains resistance to all damage against the
triggering damage equal to 2 + the monster’s level. If the foe
is within reach, the monster makes a melee Strike against it.
Scent Scent involves sensing creatures or objects by smell, and
is usually a vague sense. The range is listed in the ability,
and it functions only if the creature or object being detected
emits an aroma (for instance, incorporeal creatures usually
do not exude an aroma).
If a creature emits a heavy aroma or is upwind, the GM
can double or even triple the range of scent abilities used to
detect that creature, and the GM can reduce the range if a
creature is downwind.
Shield Block Ǻȓ Trigger The monster has its shield raised and
takes damage from a physical attack. Eﬀect The monster snaps
its shield into place to deﬂect a blow. The shield prevents the
monster from taking an amount of damage up to the shield’s
Hardness. The monster and the shield each take any remaining
damage, possibly breaking or destroying the shield.
Sneak Attack When the monster Strikes a creature that has
the ﬂat-footed condition with an agile or ﬁnesse melee
weapon, an agile or ﬁnesse unarmed attack, or a ranged
weapon attack, it also deals the listed precision damage. For
a ranged attack with a thrown weapon, that weapon must
also be an agile or ﬁnesse weapon.
Swallow Whole Ȱɵ (attack) The monster attempts to swallow
a creature of the listed size or smaller that it has grabbed in
its jaws or mouth. If a swallowed creature is of the maximum
size listed, the monster can’t use Swallow Whole again.
If the creature is smaller than the maximum, the monster
can usually swallow more creatures; the GM determines
the maximum. The monster attempts an Athletics check
opposed by the grabbed creature’s Reﬂex DC. If it succeeds,
it swallows the creature. The monster’s mouth or jaws no
longer grab a creature it has swallowed, so the monster is
free to use them to Strike or Grab once again. The monster
can’t attack creatures it has swallowed.
A swallowed creature is grabbed, is slowed 1, and has to
hold its breath or start suﬀocating. The swallowed creature
takes the listed amount of damage when ﬁrst swallowed and
at the end of each of its turns while it’s swallowed. If the victim
Escapes this ability’s grabbed condition, it exits through the
monster’s mouth. This frees any other creature grabbed in the
monster’s mouth or jaws. A swallowed creature can attack
the monster that has swallowed it, but only with unarmed
attacks or with weapons of light Bulk or less. The engulﬁng
creature is ﬂat-footed against the attack. If the monster takes
piercing or slashing damage equaling or exceeding the listed
Rupture value from a single attack or spell, the engulfed
creature cuts itself free. A creature that gets free by either
Escaping or cutting itself free can immediately breathe and
exits the swallowing monster’s space.
If the monster dies, a swallowed creature can be freed by
creatures adjacent to the corpse if they spend a combined
total of 3 actions cutting the monster open with a weapon
or unarmed attack that deals piercing or slashing damage.
Swarm Mind This monster doesn’t have a single mind
(typically because it’s a swarm of smaller creatures), and is
immune to mental eﬀects that target only a speciﬁc number
of creatures. It is still subject to mental eﬀects that aﬀect all
creatures in an area.
Telepathy (aura, divination, magical) A monster with telepathy
can communicate mentally with any creatures within the
listed radius, as long as they share a language. This doesn’t
give any special access to their thoughts, and communicates
no more information than normal speech would.
Throw Rock Ȱɵ The monster picks up a rock within reach or
retrieves a stowed rock and throws it, making a ranged Strike.
Trample ̂ˬ The monster Strides up to double its Speed and
can move through the spaces of creatures of the listed size,
Trampling each creature whose space it enters. The monster
can attempt to Trample the same creature only once in a single
use of Trample. The monster deals the damage of the listed
Strike, but trampled creatures can attempt a basic Reﬂex
save at the listed DC (no damage on a critical success, half
damage on a success, double damage on a critical failure).
Tremorsense Tremorsense allows a monster to feel the
vibrations through a solid surface caused by movement. It is
an imprecise sense with a limited range (listed in the ability).
Tremorsense functions only if the monster is on the same
surface as the subject, and only if the subject is moving along
(or burrowing through) the surface.
Wavesense This sense allows a monster to feel vibrations caused
by movement through a liquid. It’s an imprecise sense with a
limited range (listed in the ability). Wavesense functions only
if monster and the subject are in the same body of liquid, and
only if the subject is moving through the liquid.
Creature Traits
Some of these traits appear in the Pathﬁnder Core
Rulebook, while others are new to this book.
Rarity Traits
Unless the creature is common, its trait list starts with a
rarity trait. Creatures that don’t start with a rarity trait
have the common rarity.
Common A creature of this rarity is generally known and can
be summoned with the appropriate summon spell.
Uncommon Less is known about uncommon creatures than
common creatures. They typically can’t be summoned. The
DC of Recall Knowledge checks related to this creature is
increased by 2.
Rare As the name suggests, these creatures are rare. They
p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19669197
4425354
