p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19668883
4425040
Bestiary
30
AZATA DIVINITIES
The most powerful of all azatas
belong to the cast of demigods
known as empyreal lords. These
lesser deities maintain many cults
across many Material Plane worlds,
and count among their kind such
diverse demigods as Ashava, a
protector of lost spirits and dancer
in the moonlight; Black Butterﬂy,
a mysterious agent of Desna and
patron of the depths of outer space;
and Sinashakti, joyful wanderer and
deliverer of wisdom to vagabonds.
Azata
Azatas are manifestations of freedom—kindly celestials with a penchant for
curious exploration, spontaneous revelry, and whimsical quests. Born of the
untamable wilds of Elysium, azatas are passionate and mercurial, but also ﬁercely
loyal to those they hold dear. Azatas act quickly and directly against ﬁendish and
otherworldly inﬂuences, but they tend to stay out of mortal affairs otherwise,
allowing them the ultimate freedom to choose their own destiny. While all
azatas cherish freedom, each type exempliﬁes a particular freedom above others.
Many of their kind hold strange knightly and courtly titles that defy mortal
classiﬁcation and shift and change with time and on different occasions rather
than following a strict hierarchy. This bafﬂes archons and other more lawful
creatures who haven’t had much contact with azatas. In actuality, the azatas use
their titles as personal ﬂourishes and points of pride, rather than as excuses to
order each other around.
Lyrakien (Wanderer Azata)
Lyrakiens are musical messengers and embodiments of free travel. They serve
Desna and other deities and empyreal lords of Elysium, but are quite fond of
the concept of free time and are always on the hunt for opportunities to pause
in their duties to enjoy music or appreciate a moment of beauty.
They love contests, stories, and songs, and they often challenge
mortals to musical contests or pester them to share grand tales of
their exploits. Lyrakiens rely on their agility to avoid conﬂicts, but
they do their best to defend places of great natural beauty, especially
against lawful or evil foes they can damage with their starlight.
Lyrakiens have an innate wanderlust and rarely stay in the same place
for very long. Some travel alongside adventurers, ofter writing songs
about their quests and feats of derring-do.
Though light-hearted creatures, lyrakiens don’t let their whimsical
personalities get in the way of protecting breathtaking natural
locations. Often called “glistenwings” by gnomes and halﬂings, they
are frequently mistaken for sprites or similar fey, a bit of confusion
that many lyrakiens ﬁnd amusing and fertile ground for shenanigans
involving those they deem deserving of a bit of unexpected fun and
discord in their lives.
LYRAKIEN
CREATURE 1
CG
TINY
AZATA
CELESTIAL
Perception +8; darkvision
Languages Celestial, Common, Draconic, Infernal
Skills Acrobatics +9, Diplomacy +6, Performance +8, Religion +6, Stealth +7
Str –2, Dex +4, Con +1, Int +1, Wis +3, Cha +3
AC 17; Fort +4, Ref +7, Will +6
HP 25; Weaknesses cold iron 3, evil 3
Speed 25 feet, ﬂy 50 feet
Melee Ȱɵ ﬁst +9 (agile, chaotic, ﬁnesse, good, magical), Damage 1d4–2 bludgeoning
plus 1 chaotic and 1 good
Ranged Ȱɵ starlight ray +9 (chaotic, good, light, range 10 feet), Damage 1d4
chaotic and 1d4 good
Divine Innate Spells DC 17; 4th read omens; 1st detect alignment (at will; evil
only), heal, illusory object; Cantrips (1st) dancing lights, daze, detect magic;
Constant (4th) freedom of movement
Starlight Blast ʚʖ (chaotic, good, light) The lyrakien unleashes a blast
of holy starlight in a 5-foot burst centered on itself. Creatures in the
area take 1d6 chaotic damage and 1d6 good damage (DC 17 basic
Reﬂex save). The lyrakien can’t use Starlight Blast or its starlight
ray ranged attack for 1d4 rounds.
p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19668883
4425040
