p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19669171
4425328
Bestiary
318
BUILDING VAMPIRES
Because vampires can inﬂict their
nature upon any creature whose
blood they drink, practically any
living monster can become one
of these undead horrors. When
you need to create a vampire for
your game, you can do so in two
ways. In most cases, it’s more
eﬀective to build the vampire
from the ground up, using the
standard rules for monster
creation (this is how the vampire
count, vampire spawn, and
vampire mastermind presented
on these pages were built). Or you
can use the guidelines presented
under Creating a Vampire to turn
an existing creature (or even a
player character!) into a vampire,
adjusting the monster as you see
ﬁt. In either case, speciﬁc vampire
abilities like coﬃn restoration,
Mist Escape, and Drink Blood work
the same.
Vampire
Vampires are undead creatures that feed on the blood of the living.
Creating a Vampire
You can turn an existing living creature into a vampire using the following steps.
Increase the creature’s level by 1 and change its statistics as follows.
•	 It gains the undead and vampire traits, and usually becomes evil.
•	 Increase AC, attack bonuses, DCs, saving throws, and skill modiﬁers by 1.
•	 Increase damage with Strikes and other offensive abilities by 1. If an ability
can be used only a small number of times (such as a dragon’s breath weapon),
increase the damage by 2 instead.
•	 Reduce HP by the amount listed on the table.
•	 The vampire gains fast healing and resistance to physical damage (except
silver) as indicated in the table. These abilities are the reason the vampire
has less HP.
Starting Level
HP Decrease
Fast Healing/Resistance
3–4
–20
5
5–7
–30
7
8–14
–40
10
15+
–60
15
BASIC VAMPIRE AbILITIES
All vampires gain the following abilities. If the base creature has any abilities that
speciﬁcally come from it being a living creature, it loses them. It also loses any
traits that represented its life as a living creature, such as human and humanoid.
You might also need to adjust abilities that conﬂict with the vampire’s theme.
Negative Healing
Immunities death eﬀects, disease, paralyze, poison, sleep
Coﬃn Restoration (divine, necromancy, negative) Unlike other undead, a vampire isn’t
destroyed at 0 HP. Instead, it falls unconscious. If its body rests in its coﬃn for 1 hour,
the vampire gains 1 HP, after which its fast healing begins to function normally.
Vampire Weaknesses All vampires possess the following weaknesses.
•	 Compulsions Vampires are creatures of strange and unknowable compulsions. A
typical vampire can’t voluntarily cross running water unless it is transported while it
hides within its coﬃn, nor can it enter a private dwelling unless invited in by someone
with the authority to do so. At your discretion, vampires might have diﬀerent
compulsions—a pirate vampire might not be able to set foot on solid ground without
being invited, for example. The vampire can still be forced to do these things and
might be able to overcome its compulsion just as it does its revulsion (see below).
•	 Revulsion A vampire can’t voluntarily come within 10 feet of brandished garlic or a
brandished religious symbol of a non-evil deity. To brandish garlic or a religious symbol,
a creature must Interact to do so for 1 round (similar to Raising a Shield). If the vampire
involuntarily comes within 10 feet of an object of its revulsion, it gains the ﬂeeing
condition, running from the object of its revulsion until it ends an action beyond 10 feet.
After 1 round of being exposed to the subject of its revulsion, a vampire can attempt
a DC 25 Will save as a single action, which has the concentrate trait. On a success, it
overcomes its revulsions for 1d6 rounds (or 1 hour on a critical success).
•	 Stake A wooden stake driven through a vampire’s heart drops the vampire to 0
HP and prevents it from healing above 0 HP, even in its coﬃn. Staking a vampire
requires three actions and works only if the vampire is unconscious. If the stake is
removed, the vampire can heal above 0 HP again, and if it’s in its coﬃn the 1-hour
rest period begins once the stake is removed. If the vampire’s head is severed and
anointed with holy water while the stake is in place, the vampire is destroyed.
•	 Sunlight If exposed to direct sunlight, a vampire immediately becomes slowed 1. The
slowed value increases by 1 each time the vampire ends its turn in sunlight. If the
p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19669171
4425328
