p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19668993
4425150
Bestiary
140
Dullahan
Riding on a horse as black as night, the headless hunter known as the dullahan
tracks down and takes the heads of those it deems unﬁt to continue living. When
closing in for the kill, the dullahan ﬁrst whispers its victim’s name, then swiftly
collects its prize, casting a pall of dread upon all who witness the grim execution.
A dullahan manifests when a particularly violent warrior is beheaded and
the warrior’s soul stubbornly clings to material existence (or is refused entry
to the afterlife). Most dullahans return to their former homelands, where
they can exact vengeance those they feel wronged them in life (or their living
descendants). A dullahan’s concept of justice is swift and merciless, and once it
has selected a target, it is unwavering in its cause.
Perhaps even more than revenge on the living, a dullahan desires its own rotted
head. An individual who wields the head of a dullahan is powerful indeed, for a
dullahan will grudgingly serve such a master in the hopes of reclaiming its missing
skull. Mighty ﬁends such as devils command dullahans to harvest souls or lead
armies for them, while a mortal might use such an undead warrior to fulﬁll a
personal vendetta. No matter its master’s rank or station, however, a dullahan won’t
hesitate to kill its liege and reclaim its head when the opportunity presents itself.
Most dullahan lairs are abandoned, overgrown ruins or other dilapidated
places where severed heads and other trophies line the walls. Some dullahans,
on the other hand, are content to simply commit their foul deeds and leave the
remains of their decapitated victims in the streets, strewn among a copse of dead
trees, or unceremoniously tossed in a bog hole.
DULLAHAN
CREATURE 7
UNCOMMON
LE
MEDIUM
UNDEAD
Perception +14; lifesense 60 feet
Languages Common, Necril
Skills Athletics +15, Intimidation +17, Stealth +13, Survival +15
Str +6, Dex +2, Con +2, Int +2, Wis +3, Cha +4
Items full plate, +1 hatchet, +1 longsword
AC 28; Fort +13, Ref +15, Will +17
HP 95, fast healing 5; Immunities fear, death eﬀects, disease,
poison, paralyzed, unconscious; Weaknesses good 5
Frightful Presence (aura, emotion, fear, mental)
30 feet, DC 23
Attack of Opportunity Ǻȓ
Speed 20 feet
Melee Ȱɵ keen longsword +18 (magical,
versatile P), Damage 1d8+10 slashing
Melee Ȱɵ keen returning hatchet +17 (agile, sweep),
Damage 1d6+10 slashing
Melee Ȱɵ ﬁst +18 (agile, nonlethal), Damage
1d4+10 bludgeoning
Ranged Ȱɵ keen returning hatchet +14 (agile,
thrown 10 feet), Damage 2d8+10 slashing
Head Hunter Any slashing weapon a dullahan
wields becomes keen, and any hatchet it wields
becomes returning. If the dullahan kills a creature with a critical hit using a slashing
weapon, the target is decapitated as though the dullahan had used Reap on the target.
These eﬀects remain only while the dullahan holds the weapon.
Reap ʚʖ The dullahan removes the head of a dead creature within reach. Each creature
within the area of the dullahan’s frightful presence must attempt a new save, even if
they are temporarily immune.
Summon Steed ʚʖ (conjuration, occult) The dullahan summons a warhorse (page 209)
with elite adjustments (page 6) and the ﬁend trait. This steed remains until it is
slain, the dullahan Dismisses it, or the dullahan summons another steed.
DULLAHAN LEGENDS
In Ustalav, residents recite legends
of a cadre of dullahans who
drive the “Coach of the Silent,” a
macabre funeral carriage pulled
by a team of spectral horses. To
the west, among the Lands of the
Linnorm Kings, Ulfen warriors
whisper of dullahans who hunt
down their victims using packs of
hellish ebony hounds. And along
the western coasts of Garund,
pirates and merchants alike insist
of the existence of a black-sailed
ship crewed entirely by headless
undead sailors.
p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19668993
4425150
