p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19669039
4425196
Bestiary
186
CLAY GOLEMS
The remains of clay golems are
worth more to archaeologists
and scholars than to merchants.
The magniﬁcent treasures
often guarded by these ancient
wardens, however, are another
matter entirely.
Alchemical Rupture When an alchemical golem takes physical damage from a critical hit
or is aﬀected by a shatter spell, one glass chamber within its body shatters, spewing
alchemical liquid in a 5-foot emanation. Roll on the alchemical chambers list (see
above) to determine which one shatters—on a roll of 1–5, creatures in the area take
10d6 damage of the appropriate type (DC 28 basic Reﬂex). On a roll of 6, creatures
must instead save against the sickness eﬀect.
Golem Antimagic harmed by sonic (5d8, 2d6 from areas or persistent damage); healed
by acid (area 2d4 HP); slowed by cold
Vulnerable to Shatter Casting a shatter spell on an alchemical golem aﬀects the golem
normally, but also causes an alchemical rupture (see above).
Speed 25 feet
Melee Ȱɵ syringe +22 (magical, reach 10 feet), Damage 2d10+6 piercing plus
alchemical injection
Ranged Ȱɵ bomb +20 (magical, thrown 20 feet), Damage see Generate Bomb
Alchemical Injection When an alchemical golem hits a creature with a syringe Strike,
roll 1d6 on the alchemical chambers list to determine the additional eﬀect of the
attack. The syringe deals an additional 2d6 damage of the appropriate type (or
exposes the target to the sickness eﬀect, as appropriate).
Generate Bomb Ȱɵ (manipulate) The golem ﬁlls an empty vial from one of its alchemical
chambers to create a bomb and then makes a bomb Strike. Determine the type of bomb
created by rolling 1d6 on the alchemical chambers list above. On a roll of 1–4, it creates
the corresponding greater alchemical bomb: an acid ﬂask from chamber 1, a frost vial
from chamber 2, bottled lightning from chamber 3, or alchemist’s ﬁre from chamber 4.
On a roll of 5, it creates a poisonous bomb that deals 3d10 poison damage and 3 poison
splash damage with no other eﬀects. On a roll of 6, it creates a sickness bomb, which
exposes the target and all creatures in the splash radius to the sickness eﬀect; creatures
hit by only the splash receive a +2 circumstance bonus to their Fortitude saves.
Clay Golem
Traditionally, clay golems are crafted in the image of a deity and used as
guardians of tombs or sacred crypts. Clay golems have the power to lay curses
upon their victims as punishment for intrusion, leading many to believe that
these oft-ancient constructs have a touch of the divine to them. While
this idea has little basis in reality, superstitious folk still tread lightly
around statues that resemble clay golems even in the slightest.
The animating force within a clay golem is unusually unstable,
making the golem prone to entering a berserk frenzy when
damaged. Entire treasuries have been totally ruined as a result of a
rampaging clay golem, so crafters do well to make sure their golems
are maintained and in good working order—or otherwise place them on the other
side of the door from the treasures they wish to protect.
CLAY GOLEM
CREATURE 10
UNCOMMON
N
LARGE
CONSTRUCT
GOLEM
MINDLESS
Perception +16; darkvision
Skills Athletics +24
Str +6, Dex –1, Con +6, Int –5, Wis +0, Cha –5
AC 29; Fort +23, Ref +16, Will +17
HP 175; Immunities acid, bleed, death eﬀects, disease, doomed, drained, fatigued,
healing, magic (see below), mental, necromancy, nonlethal attacks, paralyzed, poison,
sickened, unconscious; Resistances physical 10 (except adamantine)
Berserk A severely damaged clay golem has a chance of going berserk. If it has 50 or
fewer Hit Points at the start of its turn, the golem must succeed at a DC 5 ﬂat check
or go berserk. A berserk golem wildly attacks the nearest living creature, or
the nearest object if no creatures are nearby.
Golem Antimagic harmed by cold and water (5d10, 2d6 from areas or
persistent damage); healed by acid (area 2d6 HP); slowed by earth
p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19669039
4425196
