p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19668962
4425119
D
109
Introduction
A-C
D
E-G
H-K
L-N
O-R
S-T
U-Z
Appendix
ATHERVOX
As green dragons are
contemplative and seek scholarly
endeavors, Athervox is no
diﬀerent. An astronomer by trade,
this great wyrm green dragon
maintains an observatory near
Senara in the Whisper Woods of
Cheliax. There, she struck a deal
with House Thrune where she
agreed to instruct a handful of
apprentices. After a few years of
instruction, these "apprentices"
vanished one night, taking
volumes of the dragon’s crucial
notes—a slight she has not
forgotten and plans to seek
vengeance for.
Draconic Frenzy ʚʖ As young blue dragon.
Draconic Momentum As young blue dragon.
Mirage Whenever the dragon uses Breath Weapon while the illusory image from its
innate project image spell persists, it can cause the Breath Weapon to originate from
itself or the image.
Storm Breath Ȱɵ (arcane, concentrate, electricity, evocation); Frequency Once per round;
Requirement A storm cloud created by Breath Weapon is within 500 feet, and the
dragon can see the cloud. Eﬀect The dragon calls down a lightning bolt from a storm
cloud created by its Breath Weapon. This creates a vertical line of lightning to the ground
that deals 6d12 electricity damage to all enemies in its path (DC 40 basic Reﬂex save).
Green Dragon
Green dragons are the most contemplative of the chromatic dragons as well as
the most approachable. The key to understanding green dragons is to understand
their obsession with knowledge and self-discipline. Any careful approach that
takes advantage of a green dragon’s ﬁxations may end in a diplomatic outcome,
but any misstep or slight can provoke a savage attack. Like most chromatic
dragons, green dragons do not suffer fools—and the threshold for what they
consider foolish is very low.
Though more open than their chromatic cousins to dealing with other creatures
and dragons, green dragons prefer an isolated and quiet life. They tend to lair in the
most forbidding parts of a forest, surrounded by tangled thickets, or else at the heart
of some dismal gulch. If the terrain is suitable, some green dragons make their home
in natural caves, which they expand to suit their needs.
Green dragons’ pride leads them to see to the preservation of
their forest homes. They feel that a verdant and lush forest is
something that they alone have cultivated. This leads some
green dragons to follow the path of druidism, though most
prefer to study the arcane arts and occult lore. Most of
them delve deeply into one particular ﬁeld of study, and
correspond with other scholars in the ﬁeld by adopting
a pen name that hides their true nature. Regardless
of their chosen focus, green dragons seek to improve
themselves, and their desire for knowledge makes
them more likely to deal diplomatically with other
creatures in order to obtain new information.
Their hoards are typically well kept,
organized, and ﬁlled with tomes of lore and
scrolls of magic along with antiquities they
collect for their own inscrutable reasons.
Many of these treasures come from across
the globe, and many an adventurer has
survived an encounter with a green dragon
by stroking its ego and plying it with rare
artifacts or lost lore from ancient cultures.
YOUNG GREEN DRAGON
CREATURE 8
LE
LARGE
AMPHIBIOUS
DRAGON
Perception +16; darkvision, scent (imprecise)
60 feet
Languages Common, Draconic
Skills Acrobatics +13, Arcana +16, Athletics +17,
Deception +14, Diplomacy +16, Intimidation
+16, Nature +14, Occultism +17, Society +14,
Stealth +15
Str +5, Dex +1, Con +3, Int +2, Wis +2,
Cha +4
p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19668962
4425119
