p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19668919
4425076
Bestiary
66
COCKATRICE TREASURE
Cockatrice lairs sometimes include
discarded gear from past victims
or smooth, pretty stones disgorged
from the creature’s craw. Gem
workers especially prize precious
stones that have been polished to
perfection in a cockatrice’s crop,
and may pay a high price for these
so-called "cockatrice rocks." Soft
materials suitable for nesting, such
as cloth and leather, rarely survive
a cockatrice’s attentions, but metal
goods are often left in ﬁne working
order, since cockatrices seem to
have little interest in anything
shiny they can’t ﬁt in their gullet.
Cockatrice
Ugly and aggressive, the dread cockatrice stalks garbage pits and hillside dumps in
search of prey that it can turn to stone with its petrifying beak and subsequently
consume piece by broken piece. Cockatrices resemble gaunt and sickly roosters
with bat wings and serpentine tails, and they rarely grow more than 2 feet tall
and twice as long. Their absentminded clucking gives smart prey ample warning
of their presence, and when angered cockatrices let out a shrill crow like that
of a rooster. Their peck releases a magical toxin that causes ﬂesh to quickly
calcify, and any creature pecked repeatedly by an irritable cockatrice eventually
transforms into a stone statue of itself.
The ﬁrst cockatrice is rumored to have hatched from a rooster’s egg incubated
on a dung hill by a toad. Whether or not the rumor is true, the cockatrice’s
monstrous appearance certainly doesn’t contradict its strange and ﬁlthy origin
story, and these creatures are more than capable of propagating on their own.
Cockatrices are remarkably fecund and gather in ﬂocks of up to a dozen
members. Each ﬂock contains only a few females. The males—which differ in
appearance from the females by having warty wattles and gnarled combs—
often ﬁght with each other, with lower-ranking males eventually driven away
to ﬁnd their own lairs or compete among other ﬂocks. Most creatures who run
afoul of a solitary cockatrice do so with one of these surly outcasts.
Cockatrice lairs are often littered with fragments of statuary from past
victims—although these are as likely to be remnants of frogs, lizards, and insects
as people. Curiously, weasels and ferrets, who inﬁltrate cockatrice lairs to steal
their eggs, are immune to the creatures’ petrifying bites. For unknown reasons,
cockatrices are both terriﬁed of and enraged by conventional roosters, and they
are equally likely to ﬂee or attack when confronted by one.
Particularly brave (or foolhardy) individuals sometimes keep cockatrices as pets
or guard animals. In their natural habitat among plains, forests, and sewers near
humanoid settlements, cockatrices are content to live off vermin or scraps of waste,
but their greatest pleasure is consuming warm meals of freshly petriﬁed ﬂesh.
COCKATRICE
CREATURE 3
N
SMALL
BEAST
Perception +8; darkvision
Skills Acrobatics +11
Str –2, Dex +4, Con +1, Int –3, Wis +1, Cha –1
AC 19; Fort +8, Ref +11, Will +6
HP 45; Immunities calciﬁcation
Speed 20 feet, ﬂy 40 feet
Melee Ȱɵ beak +13 (ﬁnesse, magical), Damage 1d8–2 piercing
plus calciﬁcation
Calciﬁcation (incapacitation, primal, transmutation)
A peck from a cockatrice hardens the ﬂesh
of the creature struck. The target must
succeed at a DC 20 Fortitude save or
become slowed 1 (or slowed 2 on a
critical failure). Further failed saves
against calciﬁcation increase the slowed
condition. Once a creature’s actions
are reduced to 0 by calciﬁcation, that
creature becomes petriﬁed.
Every 24 hours after it was petriﬁed,
the victim can attempt a DC 20 Fortitude
save to recover. On a success, it becomes ﬂesh again, but is slowed 1 for the next
24 hours. On a critical success, the creature recovers and isn’t slowed. On a failure,
the creature remains petriﬁed, but can try again in 24 hours. On a critical failure,
the petriﬁcation is permanent, and the creature can’t attempt any more saves.
p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19668919
4425076
