p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19669041
4425198
Bestiary
188
IRON GOLEMS
An iron golem can be melted down
for scrap or traded to ﬁre giants
for repurposing into armor for a
Large creature.
its movement. A creature can attempt to bar the way by succeeding at a DC 34
Fortitude save. On a critical success, the resisting creature takes no damage;
otherwise it is damaged as if hit by the golem’s ﬁst.
Slowing Pulse Ȱɵ (arcane, concentrate, transmutation) Each creature in a 10-foot
emanation must succeed at a DC 30 Fortitude save or be slowed 1 for 1 minute. The
golem can’t use Slowing Pulse again for 1d4 rounds.
Iron Golem
Traditionally crafted into the forms of giant suits of armor or powerful animals,
iron golems are products of exquisite artistry and skill. Their articulated joints
and sturdy armored bodies require great care and mathematical precision to craft,
and regular cleaning and oiling ensure they don’t rust over the ages. With proper
care, iron golems can remain in good shape for thousands of years, being
passed down for generations, as long as they aren’t destroyed by meddlesome
adventurers. In addition to their incredible strength, iron golems possess a
potent toxic breath weapon that is often more than enough to dispatch entire
groups of opponents.
IRON GOLEM
CREATURE 13
UNCOMMON
N
LARGE
CONSTRUCT
GOLEM
MINDLESS
Perception +21; darkvision
Skills Athletics +30
Str +8, Dex –1, Con +4, Int –5, Wis +0, Cha –5
AC 34; Fort +26, Ref +21, Will +22
HP 190; Immunities bleed, death eﬀects, disease, doomed, drained, fatigued, ﬁre,
healing, magic (see below), mental, necromancy, nonlethal attacks, paralyzed,
poison, sickened, unconscious; Resistances physical 15 (except adamantine)
Golem Antimagic harmed by acid (6d10, 2d8 from areas and persistent
damage); healed by ﬁre (area 2d8 HP); slowed by electricity
Vulnerable to Neutralize Poison Casting neutralize poison on the golem
deactivates its Breath Weapon for 1 minute.
Vulnerable to Rust Magical rusting eﬀects, like a rust monster’s
antennae, aﬀect the iron golem normally.
Speed 20 feet
Melee Ȱɵ ﬁst +28 (magical, reach 10 feet), Damage 3d10+12 bludgeoning
Breath Weapon ʚʖ (arcane, necromancy, poison) The iron golem
exhales poisonous gas in a 10-foot radius centered on the corner of one
of the iron golem’s squares. The gas persists for 1 round. Any creature in
the area (or that later enters the area) is exposed to the iron golem’s poison.
The golem can’t use its Breath Weapon again for 1d4 rounds.
Inexorable March Ȱɵ The iron golem Strides up to its Speed, pushing back each
creature whose space it moves into and damaging them if they try to stop its
movement. A creature can attempt to bar the way by succeeding at a DC 37 Fortitude
save. On a critical success, the resisting creature takes no damage; otherwise, it is
damaged as if hit by the golem’s ﬁst.
Iron Golem Poison (poison); Any drained value from this poison is reduced by
1 every hour. Saving Throw DC 33 Fortitude; Maximum Duration 4 rounds;
Stage 1 2d6 poison and drained 1 (1 round); Stage 2 4d6 poison and drained 2
(1 round); Stage 3 8d6 poison and drained 3 (1 round).
Adamantine Golem
Crafted from a nigh-indestructible metal of great rarity,
adamantine golems can’t be destroyed except by the most
powerful foes. Crafting an adamantine golem requires a quantity
of adamantine so massive that collecting it usually requires
mounting a mining expedition to a distant planet, the Plane
of Earth, or an Outer Plane.
p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19669041
4425198
