p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19669075
4425232
Bestiary
222
UNIQUE LICHDOM
The exact ritual, ingredients
for deadly concoctions, and
magical conditions required to
become a lich are unique and
diﬀerent for every living creature.
Understanding a spellcaster’s path
to lichdom can help, but is no
guarantee of success for others.
LICH PHYLACTERY
ITEM 12
RARE
ARCANE
NECROMANCY
NEGATIVE
Price 1,600 gp
Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk —
This item is crafted by a spellcaster who wishes to become a lich. When a lich is
destroyed, its soul ﬂees to the phylactery. The phylactery then rebuilds the lich’s undead
body over the course of 1d10 days. Afterward, the lich manifests next to the phylactery,
fully healed and in a new body (therefore, it lacks any equipment it had on its old body).
A lich’s phylactery must be destroyed to prevent a lich from returning.
The standard phylactery is a sealed metal box containing strips of parchment inscribed
with magical phrases. This box has Hardness 9 and 36 HP, but some liches devise more
durable or diﬃcult-to-obtain phylacteries. A phylactery might also come in the form of a
ring, an amulet, or a similar item; the speciﬁcs are up to the creator.
Demilich
Demiliches are formed when a lich, through carelessness or by accident, loses its
phylactery. As years pass, the lich’s body crumbles to dust, leaving only the skull
as the seat of its necromantic power. The lich enters a sort of torpor, its mind left
wandering the planes in search of ever greater mysteries. The lich gradually loses
the ability to cast spells and its magic items slowly subsume into its new form.
Negative energy concentrates around the skull, causing some of its bones and
teeth to petrify with power and turn into blight crystals. The resulting lich skull,
embedded with arcane gemstones and suffused with palpably powerful magic,
forms a creature called a demilich.
Despite its near-constant state of inactivity, a demilich grows restless from time
to time, especially when living creatures draw near. Only then does the demilich’s
hunger for life stir once more, causing it to lash out with terrifying bursts of power
in attempts to consume vital energy. Unlike an ordinary lich, should the demilich’s
skull be destroyed, its bond to the world is permanently severed, although some
theorize that even then it is not truly slain. Rather, some think that once the
demilich is destroyed, its foul and tormented mind is ﬁnally free to wander the
planes and ﬁnd new ways to enact its will. For the short-lived common folk of the
Material Plane, this is good enough, though eons later a demilich may reappear
in the region it once inhabited with a new—and even more insidious—agenda.
DEMILICH
CREATURE 15
RARE
NE
TINY
UNDEAD
Perception +19; darkvision, true seeing
Languages Abyssal, Aklo, Common, Draconic, Elf, Infernal, Necril, Undercommon
Skills Acrobatics +25, Arcana +32, Deception +26, Occultism +30, Religion +21,
Stealth +25
Str –3, Dex +4, Con +0, Int +7, Wis –2, Cha +5
Items demilich eye gem (2)
Torpor Typically, a demilich is inert when encountered and doesn’t take actions until its
contingency reaction has been triggered (see below).
AC 38; Fort +23, Ref +27, Will +23; +1 status to all saves vs. positive
HP 220, negative healing; Immunities disease, paralyzed, poison, polymorph,
unconscious; Resistances cold 5, electricity 5, ﬁre 5, physical 5 (except bludgeoning)
Telekinetic Whirlwind (arcane, aura, evocation) 20 feet. Telekinetic whirlwind
activates when the demilich ends torpor. Loose debris in the area whip up into a
whirling storm. This obscures vision, making any creature in the area concealed,
and causes creatures in its area (except the demilich) to treat all creatures as
concealed. Any creature other than the demilich that enters or begins its turn in
the aura takes 2d12 bludgeoning damage.
Contingency Ǻȓ A demilich has one permanent 8th-level contingency spell in eﬀect
with one of its arcane innate spells of 5th level or lower as the companion spell—
typically dimension door. Trigger While the lich is in torpor, a creature disturbs
p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19669075
4425232
