p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19669130
4425287
O-R
277
Introduction
A-C
D
E-G
H-K
L-N
O-R
S-T
U-Z
Appendix
RATFOLK LOCATIONS
On Golarion, ysoki are most
numerous in the Darklands below
the continent of Tian Xia, where
they rule a vast empire, but they
can be found in the Inner Sea region
as well—particularly in the badlands
and hills of Numeria, where they
eagerly scavenge and collect
strange technological wonders
and weapons.
Ratfolk
True to their name, ratfolk are rodent-like humanoids well suited to living on the
outskirts of mainstream society. Despite common misconceptions that they are
dirty or diseased, ysoki, as they call themselves, keep impeccably clean. Ratfolk
are also sometimes mistaken for wererats and initially treated with fear until they
can correct the mistaken identiﬁcation—if they get the chance to do so.
In general, ratfolk have a keen understanding of pathological and alchemical
sciences, which they employ in trade and self-defense. They make accomplished
alchemists and tinkerers, and they often protect their lairs with traps, bombs, and
other creations. Ratfolk merchants regularly dispatch large trade caravans that travel
widely for a year or more before returning to their home community. During this time
they make an effort to learn new things from the people they encounter and collect
new, interesting materials and goods that they can bring back to their warrens.
In their warrens, on the road, and in cities, ratfolk are extremely communal,
thriving on proximity to and contact with one another even in relatively tight spaces.
In addition, ratfolk are excellent at ﬁghting in cramped spaces alongside their kin.
Threatening one ratfolk or their allies is a sureﬁre way to rally the whole community.
Ratfolk Grenadier
Ratfolk grenadiers use alchemy and stealth to defend their communities.
RATFOLK GRENADIER
CREATURE 4
LN
SMALL
HUMANOID
RATFOLK
Perception +10; darkvision
Languages Common
Skills Acrobatics +9, Crafting +12, Deception +7, Society +10, Stealth +12,
Thievery +9
Str +0, Dex +4, Con +2, Int +4, Wis +2, Cha +1
Items alchemist’s tools, hand crossbow (20 bolts), studded leather armor
Infused Items A ratfolk grenadier carries 2 infused moderate acid ﬂasks,
2 infused moderate alchemist’s ﬁres, and 2 infused moderate frost
vials. These items last for 24 hours, or until the next time they make
their daily preparations.
AC 21; Fort +11, Ref +13, Will +9
HP 60
Speed 25 feet
Melee Ȱɵ fangs +12 (agile, ﬁnesse), Damage 1d4 piercing
Ranged Ȱɵ hand crossbow +12 (range increment 60 feet,
reload 1), Damage 1d6 piercing
Ranged Ȱɵ alchemical bomb +13 (range increment
20 feet, splash), Damage varies by bomb
Cheek Pouches A ratfolk grenadier has stretchy
cheek pouches that can store up to 1 cubic
foot of objects (though no more than 4 light
items). The ratfolk can remove or store an item
using the Interact action. As long as the ratfolk
has at least one object in its cheek pouches, its speech
is noticeably difficult to understand.
Quick Bomber Ȱɵ The ratfolk grenadier draws an
alchemical bomb with an Interact action and throws
it as a ranged Strike.
Quick Stow Ȳ˓ Frequency once per round. Eﬀect The
ratfolk grenadier stores one held item of light or
negligible Bulk in its cheek pouches.
Swarming A ratfolk grenadier can end its movement in the
same square as an ally that also has this ability. Only two such
creatures can share the same space.
p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19669130
4425287
