p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19669198
4425355
345
Introduction
A-C
D
E-G
H-K
L-N
O-R
S-T
U-Z
Appendix
typically can’t be summoned. The DC of Recall Knowledge
checks related to this creature is increased by 5.
Unique A creature with this rarity is one of a kind. The DC
of Recall Knowledge checks related to this creature is
increased by 10.
Alignment Trait Abbreviation
Following any listed rarity trait is one of nine alignment
trait abbreviations. They are listed below with the
alignment traits that these abbreviations represent.
General descriptions of alignments are found on pages
28–29 of the Pathfinder Core Rulebook.
CE Chaotic and evil
CG Chaotic and good
CN Chaotic and neutral
LG Lawful and good
LE Lawful and evil
LN Lawful and neutral
N Neutral
NE Neutral and evil
NG Neutral and good
Size
After any listed rarity trait and the alignment abbreviation,
each creature has its size listed before its traits.
Gargantuan This size of creature takes up a space of at least
20 feet by 20 feet (16 squares on the grid), but can be much
larger. Gargantuan creatures typically have a reach of 20
feet if they are tall, or 15 feet if they are long, but larger
ones could have a much longer reach.
Huge A Huge creature takes up a 15-foot-by-15-foot space
(9 squares on the grid). It typically has a reach of 15 feet if
the creature is tall or 10 feet if the creature is long.
Large A Large creature takes up a 10-foot-by-10-foot space
(4 squares on the grid). It typically has a reach of 10 feet if
the creature is tall or 5 feet if the creature is long.
Medium A Medium creature takes up a 5-foot-by-5-foot space
(1 square on the grid) and typically has a reach of 5 feet.
Small A Small creature takes up a 5-foot-by-5-foot space
(1 square on the grid) and typically has a reach of 5 feet.
Tiny A creature of this size takes up less than a 5-foot-by-5-
foot space (1 square on the grid), and multiple Tiny creatures
can occupy the same square on the grid. At least four Tiny
creatures can occupy the same square, and even more can
occupy the same square, at the GM’s discretion. They can
also occupy the same space as larger creatures, and if their
reach is 0 feet, they must do so in order to attack.
Other Traits
After any rarity traits, the alignment abbreviation, and
the size trait, each creature’s trait line lists all other traits
the creature has in alphabetical order. The following is a
list of those traits found in the book.
Aberration Aberrations are creatures from beyond the planes
or corruptions of the natural order.
Acid Eﬀects with this trait deal acid damage. Creatures with
this trait have a magical connection to acid.
Aeon These monitors are the self-styled defenders of reality.
Traditional aeons have dualistic natures and forms, and
they hold a dichotomy of interests, though axiomites
and inevitables do not. Aeons other than axiomites
and inevitables communicate via a strange telepathic
hodgepodge of sensory sending called envisioning.
Air Eﬀects with the air trait either manipulate or conjure air.
Those that manipulate air have no eﬀect in a vacuum or in
areas without air. Creatures with this trait consist primarily
of air or have a magical connection to that element.
Amphibious An amphibious creature can breathe in water and
in air, even outside of its preferred environment, usually
indeﬁnitely but at least for hours. These creatures often
have a swim Speed. Their bludgeoning and slashing unarmed
Strikes don’t take the usual –2 penalty for being underwater.
Angel This family of celestials is native to the plane of Nirvana.
Most angels are neutral good, have darkvision, and have a
weakness to evil damage.
Animal An animal is a creature with a relatively low
intelligence. It typically doesn’t have an Intelligence
modiﬁer above –4, can’t speak languages, and can’t be
trained in Intelligence-based skills.
Aquatic Aquatic creatures are at home underwater. Their
bludgeoning and slashing unarmed Strikes don’t take the
usual –2 penalty for being underwater. Aquatic creatures
can breathe water but not air.
Archon Members of this family of celestials are the protectors
of Heaven and are lawful good. They have darkvision and a
weakness to evil damage.
Astral Astral creatures are native of the Astral Plane. They can
survive the basic environmental eﬀects of the Astral Plane.
Azata This family of celestials is native to Elysium. They are
chaotic good and have darkvision and a weakness to evil
and cold iron.
Beast A creature similar to an animal but with an Intelligence
modiﬁer of –3 or higher is usually a beast. Unlike an animal,
a beast might be able to speak and reason.
Boggard Boggards are frog-like humanoids. They typically
have darkvision.
Caligni These subterranean people have darkvision, and some
have powers to create darkness.
Catfolk Catfolk are humanoids with feline features.
Celestial Creatures that hail from or have a strong connection
to the good-aligned planes are called celestials. Celestials
WEAPON TRAITS
The creatures in this book use one new trait—brutal—
and list the ﬁnesse trait diﬀerently. The bonuses from
these traits are already included in creatures’ statistics,
but the traits are still shown because they’re relevant
for the clumsy and enfeebled conditions.
Brutal: A ranged attack with this trait uses its Strength
modiﬁer instead of Dexterity on the attack roll.
Finesse: This melee attack is Dexterity-based. Even if a
weapon normally has the ﬁnesse trait, this trait is omitted
in the Strike entry if the monster is applying its Strength.
p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19669198
4425355
