p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19668930
4425087
D
77
Introduction
A-C
D
E-G
H-K
L-N
O-R
S-T
U-Z
Appendix
THE NATURE OF CHAOS
Some say that the nature of chaos
inherently precludes cooperation
and subtlety, but demons are
proof of the fallacy of this claim.
Succubus (Lust Demon)
Succubi are manifestations of the sin of destructive lust, and they are the most
attractive of all demons—as beﬁts their role in seducing mortals to fall to sin. The
concept of gender is ﬂuid to a succubus, as they can adopt countless humanoid
forms of any gender to aid in their goals. Most succubi have a feminine true form
(incubi, which usually have a masculine true form, are a different kind of demon),
but regardless of gender, a lust demon is supernaturally beautiful or handsome,
but with curving horns, bat wings, sharp claws, and a sinuous tail.
When disguised as a mortal humanoid on the Material Plane, a succubus
whispers into the ears of mortals, urging them to pursue their darkest and
most destructive desires and pushing them into depravity, using magic only if
persuasion fails. While mortals often ﬁxate on succubi’s application of sexual
lust, these demons are can easily exploit lust for power, knowledge, fame, or
any other desire as easily as more carnal appetites. Their ability to inﬁltrate
societies makes them excellent spies, assassins, and political saboteurs as
well. Ultimately, the succubus enjoys all means of upending mortal culture.
SUCCUBUS
CREATURE 7
CE
MEDIUM
DEMON
FIEND
Perception +15; darkvision
Languages Abyssal, Celestial, Common, Draconic, three additional mortal
languages; telepathy 100 feet, tongues
Skills Acrobatics +14, Deception +18, Diplomacy +20,
Intimidate +16, Religion +13, Society +15, Stealth +14
Str +2, Dex +3, Con +4, Int +4, Wis +2, Cha +7
AC 23; Fort +15, Ref +14, Will +17; +1 status to all saves vs. magic
HP 100; Weaknesses cold iron 5, good 5
Rejection Vulnerability As succubi are beings of pure lust, creatures
that reject their lust can metaphysically harm them. When a
succubus fails a Diplomacy check to Embrace or Request, or when
a creature succeeds at its save against a succubus’s mental spell
or ability, the succubus takes 2d6 mental damage. For one hour
after causing mental damage to a succubus in this way, a creature
can deal 2d6 mental damage to the succubus with a successful
Demoralize incorporating its rejection.
Seductive Presence (aura, charm, emotion, mental) 10 feet. Any
creature in the aura that could be sexually attracted to a succubus
takes a –2 circumstance penalty to checks and DCs to oppose the
succubus’s mental spells, Deception, and Diplomacy.
Speed 25 feet, ﬂy 35 feet
Melee Ȱɵ claw +16 (agile, evil, ﬁnesse, magical), Damage 2d8+8 slashing plus
1d6 evil
Divine Innate Spells DC 26; 6th dominate; 5th dimension door; 4th
dimension door (at will), suggestion (at will); 3rd mind reading (at will);
2nd detect alignment (at will); 1st charm (at will) Constant (5th) tongues
Divine Rituals DC 26; Abyssal pact
Change Shape Ȱɵ (concentrate, divine, polymorph, transmutation) The
succubus can take on the appearance of any Small or Medium humanoid. This doesn’t
change their Speed or their attack and damage modiﬁers with their Strikes, but it
might change the damage type their Strikes deal (typically to bludgeoning).
Embrace Ȱɵ (attack) The succubus attempts to Grapple a creature using their Diplomacy
bonus instead of Athletics. If the creature is willing, the succubus grapples it automatically.
Passionate Kiss Ȱɵ (divine, emotion, enchantment, mental) Frequency Once per round.
Eﬀect The succubus engages a creature they have grabbed in an embrace or other
act of passion to drain its vital essence. The kiss makes the creature drained 1 or
increases its drained condition by 1, to a maximum of 4. The creature takes 3d6
negative damage and the succubus regains Hit Points equal to the damage dealt.
p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19668930
4425087
