p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19669065
4425222
Bestiary
212
“WE ARE DRAGONS!”
Kobolds consider themselves
scions of dragonkind, and they
are extremely proud of this
purported heritage, no matter
how laughable other creatures
might consider these claims.
Despite such skepticism, kobolds
share more than a superﬁcial
resemblance to true dragons, with
scale colorations closely matching
the colors seen among chromatic
dragonkind. Some kobolds
develop a strong propensity
toward powerful draconic magic
and manifest these chromatic
traits with more intensity. These
so-called dragon mages are highly
respected by other kobolds, and
often rise to leadership positions
within the tribe.
Kobold
Kobolds are small, reptilian humanoids who carry physical similarities to true
dragons. They lurk in dark spaces, usually tunnels and mines beneath the earth, in
either warrens of their own design or complexes discovered and colonized after
the original builders have moved on. Though kobolds are far more pragmatic
than they are courageous, they use every inch of their cunning to even the playing
ﬁeld between themselves and other, stronger creatures. They attack from the
darkness and at range, and kobold artiﬁcers and engineers master the art of
simple but effective traps, which they use to protect their lairs. Kobolds are skilled
at working together by necessity, and they often set up ambushes or hit-and-run
assaults that allow them to do the most damage possible without being harmed
in return.
Kobolds are diligent and hardworking creatures, though they often turn these
virtues toward selﬁsh ends. While some kobolds live in communal collectives that
maintain neutral relations with the creatures around them, they can be easily
swayed into serving malevolent powers or megalomaniac leaders. This is in part
due to kobolds’ innate pragmatism, as they would rather concede to servitude
than risk being killed, but it is also in part due to a reverence for the power that
kobolds generally lack. Dragons in particular are viewed with a deferential awe,
and kobolds eagerly offer their services to such mighty and glorious creatures
when they can. While kobolds may scheme against other leaders, especially those
that control them via subjugation, dragons are usually viewed with adoration, no
matter how brutal they might be to their kobold minions.
Kobold Warrior
The typical kobold trains with agile weaponry, favoring the light pick for
its use in crafting new tunnels to expand their domains through
underground reaches. Kobolds are capable of landing
sneaky strikes against unsuspecting foes but are just as
quick to scamper off to safety when they don’t, as a
group, outnumber their enemies at least two to one.
KOBOLD WARRIOR
CREATURE –1
LE
SMALL
HUMANOID
KOBOLD
Perception
+3;
darkvision
Languages Draconic
Skills Acrobatics +5, Craft
+2 (+4 traps), Stealth +5
Str +1, Dex +3, Con +0, Int +0, Wis +1,
Cha –1
Items leather armor, sling (20 bullets), spear
AC 16; Fort +4, Ref +7, Will +3
HP 8
Speed 25 feet
Melee Ȱɵ spear +3, Damage 1d6+1 piercing
Ranged Ȱɵ sling +5 (propulsive, range increment 50 feet,
reload 1), Damage 1d4 bludgeoning
Ranged Ȱɵ spear +5 (thrown 20 feet), Damage 1d6+1 piercing
Hurried Retreat Ȱɵ Requirements The kobold warrior
is adjacent to at least one enemy. Eﬀect The kobold
warrior Strides up to its Speed plus 5 feet and gains a
+2 circumstance bonus to AC against reactions triggered
by this movement. It must end this movement in a space
that’s not adjacent to any enemy.
Sneak Attack The kobold warrior deals an extra 1d4
precision damage to ﬂat-footed creatures.
p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19669065
4425222
