p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19669036
4425193
E-G
183
Introduction
A-C
D
E-G
H-K
L-N
O-R
S-T
U-Z
Appendix
GREAT GOGITETHS
As deadly as gogiteths are, rumors
persist of even more terrifying
threats known as great gogiteths.
Said to be nearly a hundred feet
across and capable of spawning
their own hordes of gogiteths in
reaction to being attacked, great
gogiteths are also reputed to be
unusually intelligent. The rumors
claim that great gogiteths are
largely content to lurk in their
deep, remote caverns and spend
the ages dreaming of sadism
and violence.
Gogiteth
A gogiteth is a slavering nightmare of teeth, eyes, and hairy spiderlike legs, and
its appearance is invariably seared into the minds of any who witness it. Hives of
these skittering monsters haunt the lowest reaches of the Darklands, competing
with cave worms and other subterranean horrors for food and resources. A
gogiteth is rarely seen alone, as these oversized vermin learned long ago that
the best means of survival is sticking close to others of their own kind. Even the
haughty drow know to seek cover when a gogiteth is spotted, for where there is
one, a swarm is sure to follow.
Gogiteths make a clacking sound as they move about. The joints in their many
legs pop and crack with each movement, though they can suppress this sound
voluntarily so that they can hunt without giving away their presence. The odd
creatures can also make a high-pitched whistling sound that echoes throughout
the caverns where they live. Some Darklands natives report that groups of
gogiteths sometimes join together in eerie, discordant songs.
Gogiteths’ alien anatomies have inspired no shortage of speculative origin
stories. Some believe they are the result of a ﬂeshwarping experiment gone
horribly wrong. Others think they may be related in some way to the Dominion
of the Black—possibly the distant cousins or some strange exile of that alien
entity; according to this mythos, once they made their way to this planet, the
gogiteths crawled into the depths of the earth, shying away from the blazing
sun above.
Gogiteths are a menace to every other denizen of the Darklands. Drow
and duergars in gogiteth-infested regions of Sekamina or Orv frequently
organize hunting parties to eradicate the terrors, even
calling for temporary truces with unlikely allies in times
when a gogiteth presence must be addressed. Since even
an average gogiteth hive can host up to two dozen of the
horrors, missions to eradicate them when they become
established are dangerous quests indeed.
GOGITETH
CREATURE 12
CE
LARGE
ABERRATION
Perception +21; darkvision
Languages Undercommon (can’t speak)
Skills Acrobatics +19, Athletics +24, Stealth +21, Survival +17
(+24 to Track)
Str +6, Dex +3, Con +4, Int –2, Wis +1, Cha +0
AC 31; all-around vision; Fort +25, Ref +22, Will +20
HP 250; Resistances poison 10
Skittering Reposition Ǻȓ (move) Trigger A creature that
starts its move outside the gogiteth’s reach moves into its
reach. Eﬀect The gogiteth moves 10 feet. This does not
trigger reactions.
Speed 40 feet; climb 30 feet
Melee Ȱɵ jaws +26, Damage 3d10+12 piercing plus Improved
Grab
Melee Ȱɵ leg +26 (agile, reach 10 feet), Damage 3d6+12 piercing
Carry Oﬀ Prey The gogiteth can move at its full Speed while it has a
creature grabbed in its jaws, bringing the grabbed creature along.
Constrict Ȱɵ 3d6+12 bludgeoning, DC 32
Skittering Assault ʚʖ The gogiteth Strides three times. Once per
Stride, it can attempt a leg Strike against a creature in its
reach at any point during the Stride; it must make each attack
against a diﬀerent creature, but it doesn’t apply its multiple
attack penalty until after making all its Strikes. If any of the
Strikes result in a critical failure, Skittering Assault ends.
p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19669036
4425193
