p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19669054
4425211
H-K
201
Introduction
A-C
D
E-G
H-K
L-N
O-R
S-T
U-Z
Appendix
HAG COVENS
Hags are dangerous enough on
their own, but when they gather in
threes to form covens, they grow
much more powerful. Full rules for
covens appear on page 342.
Green Hag
Green hags hate beauty and purity, so they use disguises and treachery to lure and
murder innocents, corrupt the pure of heart, and shatter the minds and morals of
their victims. Green hags create imaginative schemes to utterly ruin anyone who
crosses them, as well as good or righteous folk whose very existence insults the
hag’s twisted sensibilities. The complicated scandals perpetuated by green hags
involve impersonation, mistaken identity, the seduction and betrayal of loved
ones, or all these things in combination.
GREEN HAG
CREATURE 4
CE
MEDIUM
HAG
HUMANOID
Perception +10; darkvision
Languages Aklo, Common, Jotun; tongues
Skills Acrobatics +9, Athletics +11, Deception +10, Nature +8, Occultism +8, Stealth +9
Str +5, Dex +3, Con +3, Int +2, Wis +2, Cha +4
Coven A green hag adds entangle, outcast’s curse, and wall of thorns to her coven’s spells.
AC 21; Fort +11, Ref +11, Will +12, +1 status to all saves vs. magic
HP 70; Weaknesses cold iron 5
Sound Imitation A green hag who succeeds at a Deception check to Lie can mimic
the sounds of any animal found near her lair. She has a +4 circumstance bonus to
this check.
Speed 25 feet, swim 25 feet
Melee Ȱɵ claw +14 (agile, magical), Damage 1d10+5 slashing plus enfeebling humors
Occult Innate Spells DC 20, attack +14; 2nd invisibility (at will), tree shape
(at will); Cantrips (2nd) acid splash, dancing lights, ghost sound, message;
Constant (5th) tongues; (2nd) water breathing; (1st) pass without trace
Betraying Touch Ȱɵ The green hag touches a creature that doesn’t
realize the hag is an enemy. The betrayed creature is aﬀected
by the hag’s enfeebling humors and takes a –4 circumstance
penalty to their saving throw against that eﬀect.
Change Shape Ȱɵ (concentrate, occult, polymorph, transmutation)
The green hag can take on the appearance of any Medium
humanoid woman. This doesn’t change her Speed or
her attack and damage bonuses with her Strikes, but
might change the damage type her Strikes deal (typically
to bludgeoning).
Enfeebling Humors (necromancy, occult) A creature damaged
by a hag’s claw must succeed at a DC 20 Fortitude save or
be enfeebled 1 for 1 day. On a critical failure, or if it gets hit
again and fails its save a second time, it’s enfeebled 2 for 1 day.
Exhale Miasma ʚʖ (necromancy, occult) The green hag exhales
a miasma of green vapors. Each living creature in a 15-foot
cone is aﬀected by her enfeebling humors (attempting a save as
normal). She can’t use Exhale Miasma again for 1d4 rounds.
Annis Hag
Annis hags are brutal torturers and murderers, delighting in the musical
screams and tasty ﬂesh of young creatures and those who are pure of
heart. Annis hags are the most direct of all hags, engaging in physical combat
and using their change shape ability to hunt rather than to inﬁltrate and betray
humanoids. But an Annis hag takes a grisly trophy from each kill and uses
it to sow discord, sending the trophy to one of her victim’s loved
ones in a way that implicates another family member in the murder.
Also known as iron hags, annis hags have iron-like yet ﬂexible ﬂesh
that resists edged weapons, and their own touch is the same cold iron
that burns the ﬂesh of other hags. This allows them to bully their way to
the leadership of hag covens.
p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19669054
4425211
