p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19668927
4425084
Bestiary
74
Deep Gnome
These distant cousins to gnomes are reclusive, underground dwellers.
Svirfneblins, as deep gnomes call themselves, have skin the color of gray or
brown stone. While deep gnome males are bald, women have thin, pale-gray
hair, and all have the large, expressive eyes typical among all gnomes. A deep
gnome is 3 feet tall and weighs approximately 65 pounds. Deep gnomes rarely
interact with those outside of their small cavern communities, and they are
slow to trust outsiders, sometimes keeping them imprisoned for years simply to
prevent them from informing others of the deep gnome settlement.
The ﬁrst deep gnomes rose in the underground world some time after their
early gnome ancestors migrated from the First World to Golarion. A group
of these migrants elected to settle underground instead of on the surface, and
it was from these gnomes that the svirfneblin came to be. Some believe the
gnomes chose the Darklands as their home to watch for and stop any evil fey
who might inﬁltrate the underground region, but much like the exact reasons
for the gnomes’ relocation, their motivation has been lost to time. Thousands
of years of living in subterranean caverns with little to no light transformed
the physical characteristics of the gnomes living there into those of the deep
gnome of today.
Though deep gnomes may seem dour and recalcitrant at ﬁrst glance, they
retain the fey blood of their ancestors. In fact, deep gnomes are sometimes more
emotionally erratic than their gnome cousins, lashing out violently at what
seems like the smallest provocation. Such an explosion is often followed by an
extended period of quiet brooding. Despite this, deep gnome communities are
close-knit, as each citizen knows when to give the others the space they require
to process their feelings.
Many deep gnome settlements have clashed with nearby duergar
(pages 138–139) communities for myriad reasons: resources, territory, and even
religion and morality. Over the centuries, some of these disputes have evolved
into full wars, with many lives lost on both sides. Neither deep gnomes nor
duergars are particularly proud of these conﬂicts, but both insist they were in
the right each time. The ferocity with which most duergars ﬁght has left
a deep impression on the psyches of some deep gnome communities,
leading them to distrust all dwarves and dwarf-like ancestries even
more than other strangers. This can result in non-duergar dwarves
being driven off from deep gnome cities before being able to explain
themselves. A dwarf and even those traveling with a dwarf require patience
and tenacity when attempting to deal with deep gnomes holding such views.
Svirfneblins value crafting and many decorate their cavernous homes with
paintings on the walls, often incorporating the rock in clever ways. They also
value crystals and gems, making jewelry and beads that they string through
their hair.
Deep Gnome Scout
Deep gnome scouts patrol the tunnels that lead into their
settlements. Some scout alone to make the most of their
stealth, but others form groups for the sake of safety.
DEEP GNOME SCOUT
CREATURE 1
N
SMALL
GNOME
HUMANOID
Perception +7; darkvision
Languages Gnomish, Undercommon
Skills Acrobatics +7, Nature +5, Stealth +7 (+10 underground), Survival +5
Str +2, Dex +4, Con +2, Int +0, Wis +2, Cha –1
Items light pick, sling (20 bullets)
AC 17; Fort +7, Ref +9, Will +5
HP 18
DEEP GNOME FAITH
While most deep gnomes aren’t
particularly religious, they respect
the spirits of nature, especially
those found within earth and
stone. Most deep gnome druids,
known as “rockwardens,” learn
Terran, the language of the Plane
of Earth, in order to speak with
these forces, and some can even
entreat with earth elementals.
The handful of deep gnome
communities of faith tend to
worship neutral deities, such
as Gozreh, Nethys, Pharasma,
and the gnomish goddess Nivi
Rhombodazzle. In such areas, a
small church to the worshipped
god is erected in the center of
town and is open to the public
around the clock, allowing the
deep gnomes to worship as they
see ﬁt.
p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19668927
4425084
