p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19669099
4425256
Bestiary
246
INSPIRATIONS FOR ART
Nymphs are living manifestations
of beauty and grace, and as such
they are often the subjects of
art—sculpture and paintings in
particular. Promising a nymph
to immortalize them in a work
of art can be an excellent way to
secure that nymph’s favor, but one
should take care to ensure that the
nymph admires and is proud of the
artistic eﬀort’s ﬁnal result, lest the
nymph be insulted and lash out
with her powerful magic.
Nymph
Nymphs are a family of fey that take the form of beautiful humanoids with elven
features and have a deep association with the natural world. The most common
of their kind are the dryads, which are spirits that embody great trees, but many
other kinds of nymphs exist, including naiads, who watch over bodies of water. All
nymphs are guardians of some element of nature, typically a speciﬁc tree or pond,
or even—in the case of nymph queens—whole forests or massive bodies of water.
Naiad
Naiads protect streams, ponds, springs, and other natural bodies of fresh water. While
most naiads lead solitary lives close to their chosen ward, sometimes these nymphs
congregate in coven-like groups where river tributaries meet, performing great magic
and blessing the waters of the land. Because naiads’ bonds to their bodies of water
permit more ﬂexibility, they are the nymphs most likely to interact with humanoids
and even visit their settlements on occasion. Unlike other nymphs, naiads occasionally
become adventurers, especially when dark forces seek to despoil nature or otherwise
threaten the land, joining forces with others to prevent the corruption of nature.
NAIAD
CREATURE 1
CG
MEDIUM
AMPHIBIOUS
FEY
NYMPH
WATER
Perception +6; low-light vision
Languages Common, Elven, Sylvan; speak with animals
Skills Acrobatics +6, Athletics +3, Diplomacy +7, Nature +6, Stealth +6, Survival +4
Str +0, Dex +3, Con +0, Int +1, Wis +1, Cha +4
Wild Empathy The naiad can use Diplomacy to Make an Impression on and make very
simple Requests of animals.
AC 16; Fort +3, Ref +6, Will +8
HP 20; Weaknesses cold iron 3; Resistances ﬁre 3
Water Dependent A naiad bonds to a spring, pool, pond, or similar-sized water feature.
While within 300 feet of her bonded body of water, she can use her innate tidal surge
at will. She doesn’t recover Hit Points or reduce the drained condition when resting
beyond that range. Unlike most other nymphs, she doesn’t suﬀer penalties from being
apart from her bonded body of water. A naiad can perform a 24-hour ritual to bond
herself to a new body of water.
Speed 25 feet, swim 25 feet
Melee Ȱɵ aqueous ﬁst +8 (agile, ﬁnesse, magical, water), Damage 1d6 bludgeoning
Primal Innate Spells DC 17; 1st charm, create water, tidal surge (Core Rulebook 397);
Constant (2nd) speak with animals
Water Healing ʚʖ (concentrate, healing, necromancy, primal) While within her bonded
body of water (see water dependent above), the naiad heals 1 Hit Point every 10 minutes.
Dryad
Dryads are fey guardians of the trees and creatures who dwell in wooded areas.
They prefer using indirect methods to dissuade those who would harm their sacred
groves and beloved forests, but they are not above using enchantments to enlist
the aid of allies when evil threats cannot be dissuaded with words alone. In times
of peace, dryads happily live secluded lives inside their trees, and a community at
harmony with nature might not even realize a dryad lives nearby.
Though they watch over all the woods around them, dryads are inextricably tied
to a speciﬁc tree, usually an oak. Dryads who are bonded to another type of tree
are fundamentally the same, but they may differ in temperament and appearance to
match their ward. For instance, kraneiai, or cherry-tree dryads, have beautiful pink
coloration and concern themselves with the fragile beauty of life.
DRYAD
CREATURE 3
CG
MEDIUM
FEY
NYMPH
PLANT
Perception +10; low-light vision
p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19669099
4425256
