p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19669061
4425218
Bestiary
208
SOULBOUND HOMUNCULI
Most homunculi use a dose of
their creator’s blood as their spark
of life, but it’s possible to use a
technique similar to that used in
the crafting of a soulbound doll
(page 306) to give a homunculus
a personality and the semblance
of life. These homunculi gain the
soulbound trait, can speak, and do
not have a special link to a creator,
yet the process tends to warp
the soul used so that, more often
than not, what rises in the new
homunculus body is a parody of
its prior life. As such, soulbound
homunculi are generally created by
cruel spellcasters as a method
of humiliating and tormenting
vanquished enemies.
Homunculus
A homunculus is a tiny servitor construct created by a crafter to serve as a spy,
scout, messenger, or assistant. When a crafter ﬁrst begins to study the art of
creating constructs, she often crafts a homunculus ﬁrst, since the creation process
is simple and inexpensive due to a magical shortcut: the use of the creator’s own
blood. This forges a link between the homunculus and its master, causing the
homunculus to gain a spark of the creator’s intellect, as well as the same moral
values and some of the creator’s basic personality traits. Homunculi left to their
own devices never stray far from their masters.
In most cases, a homunculus doesn’t survive the death of its master for long.
Deprived of its creator, a homunculus loses focus and grows increasingly
self-destructive, and some even end up battering themselves to destruction. Rarely,
a homunculus with a slain master survives the trauma with its mind intact, often
seeing itself as its deceased creator’s child or successor and attempting to further
its creator’s legacy as best it can. In such cases, and if the
homunculus was in close proximity to its master upon that
creature’s death, a portion of the dead master’s soul “infects” the
surviving homunculus as it passes on to the afterlife. This doesn’t result
in a truly soulbound homunculus (see sidebar), since only a fragment of
the soul is left behind, but this is still enough to grant the homunculus a
greater personality, free will of its own, and perhaps most importantly, the
ability to speak. Over time, a few of these “awakened” homunculi even go
so far as to become convinced that they are the reincarnation of their prior
masters, although their actual personalities never quite reach the depth and
complexity of a truly living creature. They are, at best, caricatures of the master,
and at worst they become awful, bitter-minded parodies of life itself. Still, a
free-willed homunculus might pursue studies in its creator’s class, becoming
a unique creature with the abilities of that class if time and fortune permit.
Homunculi are created from a mixture of clay, ash, mandrake root,
spring water, and a pint of the creator’s own blood. It is possible
for a separate donor to provide the blood, but the process is
more difﬁcult.
HOMUNCULUS
CREATURE 0
N
TINY
CONSTRUCT
Perception +3; darkvision
Languages Common (can’t speak any language); master
link
Skills Acrobatics +5, Stealth +5
Str –1, Dex +3, Con +0, Int +0, Wis +1, Cha –2
Master Link (arcane, divination, mental) A homunculus can’t speak, but it
is telepathically linked to its creator. It can share information back and
forth, including its master’s knowledge and everything the homunculus
hears. The range of this link is 1,500 feet. The homunculus adopts the
same alignment as its creator and is utterly faithful. If the homunculus
is destroyed, the master takes 2d10 mental damage. If the master is slain,
the homunculus becomes mindless, claims its current location as its lair, and
instinctively attacks anyone who comes near.
AC 17; Fort +2, Ref +7, Will +3
HP 17; Immunities bleed, death eﬀects, disease, doomed, drained, fatigued, healing,
necromancy, nonlethal attacks, paralyzed, poison, sickened, unconscious
Speed 15 feet, ﬂy 40 feet
Melee Ȱɵ jaws +7 (ﬁnesse, magical), Damage 1d4 piercing plus homunculus poison
Homunculus Poison (poison); A homunculus has one dose of poison in a reservoir in its
head. It can reﬁll this poison from its reserves with an Interact action. Saving Throw
DC 15 Fortitude; Maximum Duration 6 rounds; Stage 1 1d6 poison and enfeebled 1
(1 round)
p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19669061
4425218
