p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19668913
4425070
Bestiary
60
CENTAUR TREASURE
Centaurs appreciate ﬁne weapons
and armor. Some craft their own
while others use quality armaments
they take from their enemies;
however, due to their forms, they
are unlikely to use armor heavier
than breastplates.
Centaur
Centaurs are legendary hunters and trackers who resemble heavily muscled
humans with the bodies of powerful horses from the waist down. They are
typically reclusive but haughty, quick to assume that their handsome physiques
and long history of cultural traditions make them superior to any two-legged
folk they encounter. While stories of bloody clashes between centaurs and
humanoid settlers are well known, centaurs are neither intrinsically bloodthirsty
nor recklessly aggressive. Rather, they are proud and stubborn and do not take
kindly to outsiders who encroach on their ancestral grounds, some of which
have been ruled by centaurs for thousands of years. Against despoilers of nature
who fail to heed their warnings, centaurs do not hesitate to use their ﬁnely
honed hunting skills to inﬂict deadly wounds.
Centaurs train with weapons as well as their heavy hooves, and the thunder of
centaurs charging across the plains is often mistaken for a stampede or even an
earthquake. Despite their insular nature, some centaurs form close alliances
with elves, fey, gnomes, and isolated human communities. Such
allies are often surprised to learn the depths of centaurs’ honor,
pragmatism, and wilderness lore. Rarely, a centaur leaves its tribe
to travel the wider world. Such lone centaur wanderers more easily
integrate into humanoid societies, but other centaurs are
quick to assume that some dishonor led to their exile and
thus give such vagabonds a wide berth.
Centaurs have incredible variation in their individual
size and coloration. Their upper bodies are fairly
similar within a tribe and even region, but their lower
bodies—like those of horses—can vary widely from
parent to child. Most centaurs are at least 7 feet tall
and weigh more than 2,000 pounds.
Centaurs live in groups of dozens of members,
usually led by an old, powerful seer or battle-
hardened warrior who has carried out many noble
deeds and earned a lifetime of respect from their
comrades. The revered leader guides the habits of
their entire group; a wise seer might encourage the
tribe to roam far from civilization to preserve the
ways of its ancestors, while an aggressive warrior
might foster skirmishes with nearby humanoid
settlements and even rival centaur groups.
CENTAUR
CREATURE 3
N
LARGE
BEAST
Perception +9; darkvision
Languages Common, Elven, Sylvan
Skills Athletics +11, Diplomacy +6, Intimidation +6, Nature +7,
Survival +7
Str +4, Dex +2, Con +1, Int +0, Wis +2, Cha +1
Items breastplate, longsword, spear (3), steel shield (Hardness 5,
HP 20, BT 10)
AC 20 (22 with shield raised), Fort +8, Ref +9, Will +9
HP 40
Shield Block Ǻȓ
Speed 40 feet
Melee Ȱɵ hoof +9 (agile), Damage 1d10+4 bludgeoning
Melee Ȱɵ longsword +11 (versatile P), Damage 1d8+4 slashing
Melee Ȱɵ spear +11, Damage 1d6+4 piercing
Ranged Ȱɵ spear +9 (thrown 20 feet), Damage 1d6+4 piercing
Trample ̂ˬ Medium or smaller, hoof, DC 18
p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19668913
4425070
