p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19669123
4425280
Bestiary
270
PSYCHOPOMP DIVINITIES
The most powerful of the
psychopomps are unique demigods
known collectively as “ushers,”
each of whom has its own cult.
These psychopomp divinities
include Atropos, the Last Sister;
Barzahk, the Passage; Ceyanan,
the Shepherd; Dammar, the
Denied; Imot, the Symbol of Doom;
Mother Vulture, the Flesheater;
Mrtyu, Death’s Consort; Narakas,
the Cleansing Sentence; the
Pale Horse; Phlegyas, Consoler
of Atheists; Saloc, Minder
of Immortals; Teshallas, the
Primordial Poison; and
Vale, the Court of the Ancestors.
Psychopomp
Psychopomps are guardians and shepherds of the dead native to the Boneyard,
the vast plane of graves where mortal souls are judged and sent on to their eternal
rewards or damnations. Psychopomps ensure that the dead come to terms with
their transition from mortality and are properly sorted into the appropriate
afterlife. They also protect souls from being preyed upon by supernatural
predators. Nearly all psychopomps wear masks, especially when they’re likely to
be interacting with mortals, although the types of masks they wear are as varied
as the psychopomps themselves. The courts of the Boneyard preside in Requian, a
somber yet melodic language spoken slowly with various tonal shifts.
Nosoi
A nosoi resembles a whippoorwill, sparrow, or other small bird wearing a heavy
leather plague doctor’s mask. They are the clerks, messengers, and scribes of the
Boneyard, witnessing judgments, directing souls, and generally performing the
administrative grunt work that keeps the Boneyard functioning. Most nosois
are particularly chatty and eager to discuss how important they consider their
individual assignments to be.
NOSOI
CREATURE 1
N
TINY
MONITOR
PSYCHOPOMP
Perception +6; darkvision, lifesense 60 feet
Languages Abyssal, Celestial, Infernal, Requian
Skills Acrobatics +6, Boneyard Lore +8, Library Lore +8, Performance +6, Religion +6,
Society +2, Stealth +6
Str –1, Dex +3, Con +1, Int +1, Wis +1, Cha +3
Lifesense (divination, divine) A psychopomp senses the vital essence of living and
undead creatures within the listed range.
AC 16; Fort +4, Ref +8, Will +6
HP 18; Immunities death eﬀects, disease; Resistances negative 3, poison 3
Speed 15 feet, ﬂy 40 feet
Melee Ȱɵ beak +6 (ﬁnesse, magical), Damage 1d4–1 piercing plus spirit touch
Divine Innate Spells DC 16; 4th read omens, talking corpse; 2nd invisibility (at will; self
only), sound burst
Change Shape Ȱɵ (concentrate, divine, polymorph, transmutation) The nosoi takes the
appearance of a raven or songbird. This doesn’t change its Speed or its attack and
damage modiﬁers with its Strikes.
Haunting Melody Ȱɵ (auditory, concentrate, divine, enchantment, incapacitation, mental)
The nosoi croons an entrancing song. Each living or undead creature within a 60-foot
emanation must attempt a DC 18 Will save. The eﬀect lasts for 1 round, but a nosoi
can use this ability again on subsequent rounds to extend the duration by 1 round for
all aﬀected creatures. A creature that succeeds at any save is temporarily immune
for 24 hours. Despite being a mental eﬀect, this ability aﬀects mindless undead.
Psychopomps are immune to this ability.
Failure The creature is fascinated.
Critical Failure As failure, and the creature must spend each of its actions
on its turn to move closer to the nosoi as expediently as possible while
avoiding obvious dangers. If a fascinated creature is adjacent to the nosoi, it
stays still and doesn’t act. If the creature is attacked, the fascination ends.
Spirit Touch A nosoi’s Strikes aﬀect incorporeal creatures as though etched
with a ghost touch property rune and deal 1d6 negative damage to
living creatures or 1d6 positive damage to undead.
Morrigna
Bounty hunters and investigators, morrignas seek out
creatures that thwart death or interfere with the natural
ﬂow of souls. Morrignas dress in ﬂowing spider silk and
p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19669123
4425280
