p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19668915
4425072
Bestiary
62
CHANGELING EXILES
Changelings who resist the Call and
abandon the society that raised
them become exiles like the one
presented on this page—creatures
who live solitary lives in the wild
and are often driven to desperate
measures to survive, taking up the
lifestyles of highway bandits or
risk-taking wilderness guides.

Changeling
Children of hags, destined to become hags themselves, changelings face a life of conﬂict.
Born of supernatural creatures who kill and consume the child’s father, changelings are
deposited into their father’s society to be raised. These offspring appear to be members
of their paternal ancestry, and changelings have been found among dwarves, gnomes,
orcs, goblins, and numerous others, but human-ancestry changelings are by far the
most common. Within the normal range for their ancestry, changelings tend toward
slighter builds, darker hair, and pale complexions, though their
most common feature is a nearly universal heterochromia,
leading to widespread superstition about individuals with
differently colored eyes.
As changelings come of age, they sometimes manifest
abilities granted by their hag heritage. Some gain the
ability to see in the dark, some grow ﬁngernails long and
hard enough to serve as claws, and others gain even stranger
abilities speciﬁc to their hag mother. For instance, dream mays,
the children of night hags or their cousins the dreamthief hags,
can gain an enhanced ability to resist the magic of dreams and
sleep. Other types of changelings include slag mays, the children
of annis hags; callow mays, the children of green hags; brine
mays, the children of sea hags; and others for each type of hag.
As beings infused with supernatural power, changelings ﬁnd
themselves able to command various traditions of magic, with
many drawn to either the occult magic common among hags or
primal magic.
At roughly the same time in their lives, many changelings—
women in particular—begin to hear the Call, a psychic urging from
their hag mother luring them away from the communities that raised
them. If followed, the Call eventually leads the changeling to the hag’s
coven, where they are subjected to terrible rituals that twist them
into hags themselves. Some changelings, especially those who have
strong social bonds or embrace druidic traditions, are able to resist
this Call and continue on with their mortal lives. The fact that the Call
disproportionately targets female changelings has led to a widespread
misunderstanding that all changelings are female, while in fact male
changelings are simply assumed to be members of their paternal ancestry.
Changeling exile
This changeling exile is the child of a night hag or dreamthief hag.
CHANGELING EXILE
CREATURE 3
CN
MEDIUM
CHANGELING
HUMAN
HUMANOID
Perception +11; darkvision
Languages Common, Druidic
Skills Deception +9, Medicine +9, Nature +11, Stealth +8, Survival +9
Str +4, Dex +1, Con +0, Int +0, Wis +4, Cha +2
Items leather armor, staﬀ
AC 19; Fort +7, Ref +8, Will +11; +2 circumstance to all saves vs. dream and sleep
HP 45
Speed 25 feet
Melee Ȱɵ claws +11 (agile), Damage 1d4+4 slashing
Melee Ȱɵ staﬀ +11 (two-hand d8), Damage 1d4+4 bludgeoning
Primal Prepared Spells DC 21, attack +11; 2nd darkness, humanoid form, 1st
burning hands, shillelagh, ventriloquism; Cantrips (2nd) dancing lights, produce
ﬂame, read aura, tanglefoot
Druid Order Spells DC 21; 2nd (1 Focus Point) wild morph,
wild shape
p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19668915
4425072
