p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19669040
4425197
E-G
187
Introduction
A-C
D
E-G
H-K
L-N
O-R
S-T
U-Z
Appendix
STONE GOLEMS
Depending on the material from
which it is made and the care that
went into crafting it, a destroyed
stone golem may be worth as much
as an immaculately sculpted marble
pillar or as little as a pile of rubble.
Vulnerable to Disintegrate A disintegrate spell aﬀects the golem but deals half the
normal amount of damage and causes the golem to become slowed 2 for 1 round.
Quicken Ȳ˓ (divine, transmutation) Frequency Once per day. Trigger The clay golem’s
turn begins. It can’t trigger this free action on the ﬁrst turn of combat. Eﬀect The clay
golem becomes quickened for 1 minute.
Speed 20 feet
Melee Ȱɵ ﬁst +24 (magical, reach 10 feet), Damage 2d10+12 bludgeoning plus cursed wound
Berserk Slam Ȱɵ Requirement The golem is berserk. Eﬀect The clay golem Strikes
with its ﬁst at a –1 circumstance penalty. If its Strike hits, the clay golem deals an
additional 1d8 damage and knocks the target prone.
Cursed Wound (divine, curse, necromancy) A creature hit by the clay golem’s ﬁst must
succeed at a DC 29 Fortitude save or be cursed until healed to its maximum HP. The
cursed creature can’t regain HP except via magic, and anyone casting a spell to heal
the creature must succeed at a DC 29 counteract check or the healing has no eﬀect.
The golem’s counteract level is equal to its creature level.
Stone Golem
Stone golems are slow and steady constructs typically carved from marble or
granite. They’re often made to serve as works of art when at rest, so some golem
crafters employ master sculptors to ensure the constructs make beautiful statues.
Older stone golems might be weathered, with scuffed or cracked surfaces or
missing noses and digits, but this weathering is largely cosmetic and doesn’t
adversely impact the golems’ functionality.
Tales tell of particularly immense stone golems residing in certain
ancient ruins. Survivors from time-lost civilizations bent on carrying out
orders from long-gone masters, these immense stone golems are much
more powerful than most stone golems. They are always level 15 or
higher and never smaller than Huge in size—most are Gargantuan.
Because their size is so great and the structures they dwell in so
dilapidated, the awakening of such a stone golem can cause
surrounding structures to collapse, ancient foundations to
buckle, and ceilings to come crashing down on foes. In
addition to the statistics here, these massive stone golems
attack with wide, sweeping strikes capable of knocking
down multiple targets at once.
STONE GOLEM
CREATURE 11
UNCOMMON
N
LARGE
CONSTRUCT
GOLEM
MINDLESS
Perception +17; darkvision
Skills Athletics +26
Str +7, Dex –1, Con +4, Int –5, Wis +0, Cha –5
AC 30; Fort +24, Ref +18, Will +19
HP 175; Immunities acid, bleed, death effects, disease, doomed, drained, fatigued,
healing, magic (see below), mental, necromancy, nonlethal attacks, paralyzed,
poison, sickened, unconscious; Resistances physical 10 (except adamantine)
Golem Antimagic harmed by cold and water (5d10, 2d8 from areas and persistent
damage); healed by acid (area 2d8 HP); slowed by earth
Vulnerable to Stone to Flesh A stone to ﬂesh spell negates the golem’s golem antimagic
and its resistance to physical damage for 1 round. A ﬂesh to stone spell reverses this
eﬀect immediately.
Speed 20 feet
Melee Ȱɵ ﬁst +24 (magical, reach 10 feet), Damage 2d10+13 bludgeoning
Impose Paralysis Ǻȓ (incapacitation) Trigger The stone golem hits a slowed creature.
Eﬀect The creature must succeed at a DC 30 Fortitude save or become paralyzed for
1 round.
Inexorable March Ȱɵ The stone golem Strides up to its Speed, pushing back each
creature whose space it moves into and damaging them if they try to stop
p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19669040
4425197
