p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19668935
4425092
Bestiary
82
their turn but doesn’t deal any damage that turn, they take 3d6+10 mental damage at the
end of their turn and their commander’s aura deactivates until the end of their next turn.
Attack of Opportunity Ǻȓ A marilith gains 5 extra reactions per round that they can use
only to make Attacks of Opportunity. The demon can’t use more than one on the same
triggering action, even if a creature leaves several squares in the marilith’s reach, and the
marilith must use a diﬀerent weapon for each Attack of Opportunity.
Speed 40 feet, ﬂy 40 feet (from ﬂy)
Melee Ȱɵ cold iron silver longsword +35 (evil, magical, reach 10 feet, versatile P), Damage
3d8+16 slashing plus 1d6 evil
Melee Ȱɵ tail +33 (evil, magical, reach 10 feet), Damage 3d12+16 bludgeoning plus 1d6
evil and Grab
Divine Innate Spells DC 38; 9th blade barrier (×2), weapon storm (×2); 5th dimension door;
4th dimension door (at will); Constant (6th) true seeing; (4th) ﬂy
Divine Rituals DC 38; Abyssal pact
Bladestorm ʚʖ The marilith makes up to six longsword Strikes,
each against a diﬀerent target. These attacks count toward the
marilith’s multiple attack penalty, but the multiple attack penalty
doesn’t increase until after all the attacks.
Defensive Assault ʚʖ The marilith makes two Strikes, each with a
diﬀerent weapon, and they use the remaining weapons for protection.
The demon gains a circumstance bonus to AC for 1 round equal to
the number of weapons not used for attacks. If the marilith
later uses any of those weapons to attack (including for an
Attack of Opportunity), the bonus to AC decreases by 1 for
each weapon used.
Focused Assault ʚʖ The marilith attacks a single target
with all the weapons they wield in their arms, overwhelming
the target with multiple attacks and leaving almost nowhere to dodge.
The demon makes a longsword Strike. On a successful attack, the marilith
deals longsword damage to the target, plus an additional 1d8 damage for every
longsword they wield beyond the ﬁrst (typically 5d8 extra damage).
Even on a failed attack, the marilith deals the damage from one
longsword to the target, though they still miss completely
on a critical failure. This counts toward the marilith’s
multiple attack penalty as a number of attacks equal
to the number of longswords the pride demon wields.
Greater Constrict Ȱɵ 2d12+13 bludgeoning,
DC 39
Infuse Weapons (divine, evocation) Any
weapon becomes a +2 greater striking weapon
made of cold iron and silver while a marilith
wields it. The marilith can change its evil damage
to chaotic whenever it attacks.
Balor (Fire Demon)
When folk whisper frightened tales of the demonic, what most
envision is the balor—a towering ﬁgure of ﬁre and ﬂesh, a horned
nightmare armed with a ﬂaming whip and a sword ﬂying through the
night in search of its latest victim. On the Abyss, balors serve demon lords as
generals or captains, and they typically command vast legions of demons. Standing
at 14 feet in height, only the cruelest mortal souls—those who devoted entire lives to
sins too numerous to count—can fuel the formation of a balor. More often, a balor
forms from a mass of dozens of mortal souls who shared debased ideologies in life.
BALOR LORDS
Those rare few balors who form from single souls are the ones most likely to
eventually transcend the notable power they already wield, becoming a nascent
DEMONIC SOURCES
When a sinful mortal soul is
consigned to the Abyss, it spends
time wallowing in the mire and
feeding on ﬁlth. If it survives
and is not itself eaten, the soul
eventually ascends into a demon,
as inﬂuenced by the nature of
its sin, yet most demons
are themselves capable
of reproduction as well. The
fecundity of demonic life is
perhaps the greatest—and most
threatening—aspect of these
dangerous ﬁends.
p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19668935
4425092
