p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19668884
4425041
A-C
31
Introduction
A-C
D
E-G
H-K
L-N
O-R
S-T
U-Z
Appendix
WANDERING AZATAS
While the idyllic realm of Elysium
is the home plane of azatas, their
overwhelming curiosity and
natural wanderlust often lead
them to travel far from this plane.
On other planes, they can be
seeking to right wrongs, looking
for entertainment, or merely
exploring to see the sights. More
than a few azatas, taken by a
whimsical urge to spread their
sometimes unwelcome jocosity,
see it as their duty to tease uptight
or humorless mortal creatures.
Gancanagh (Passion Azata)
Gancanaghs are lovers, revelers, and dashing duelists of Elysium. Embodiments of
free love, they eagerly throw themselves into courting targets for brief but earnest
ﬂings until their quicksilver passions change their desires. They serve Cayden
Cailean as well as other bacchanalian deities and empyreal lords of Elysium
who understand their desires for love and parties. Gancanaghs hate evil beings
that profane the spirit of romance and passion, as such creatures (especially the
demonic tempters known as succubi) reinforce stigmas against open and free love.
One can give no greater insult to a gancanagh than to mistake him for such a
creature, and more than one hotheaded gancanagh has challenged a misinformed
paladin or other champion of good to a duel over such a slight. While they enjoy
drinking and carousing, gancanaghs can’t stand smoke. Nonetheless, many
gancanaghs carry whimsical-looking smoking pipes because they think it makes
them look dapper. They cherish their silver ﬂutes, for they enjoy the beauty of
ﬂutes’ music and its ability to sway the heart.
The majority of gancanaghs present themselves as male, but the concept of
gender to a creature like a gancanagh, which can change its shape freely,
is much more ﬂuid and open to interpretation than for many mortals.
Gancanaghs enjoy using this ﬂexibility to confront and test mortals’
convictions when faced with fear or prejudice, but when encountering
mortals who themselves are open-minded about sexuality or gender identity,
they can become lifelong allies. For those who are persecuted for such reasons,
gancanaghs are tireless defenders and eager supporters, quick to provide safety
and to punish those who would attempt to impose narrower beliefs upon a
world that deserves more diversity than it often gets. If possible, a gancanagh
seeks to educate and redeem those who hold destructive beliefs or prejudices,
resorting to combat only to defend themself or an endangered mortal, or when
no other option seems tenable—yet even then, they ﬁght with sadness.
GANCANAGH
CREATURE 4
CG
MEDIUM
AZATA
CELESTIAL
Perception +11; darkvision
Languages Celestial, Draconic, Infernal; tongues
Skills Athletics +9, Deception +13, Diplomacy +13, Performance +14, Religion +9,
Stealth +11
Str +1, Dex +5, Con +3, Int +2, Wis +1, Cha +5
Items silver rapier, silver virtuoso ﬂute
AC 21; Fort +9, Ref +13, Will +11
HP 75; Weaknesses cold iron 5, evil 5
Vulnerable to Smoke A gancanagh’s lungs can’t tolerate smoke. They
take a –2 circumstance penalty to saving throws against eﬀects that
create some form of smoke.
Speed 30 feet
Melee Ȱɵ silver rapier +13 (deadly 1d10, disarm, ﬁnesse, good, magical), Damage
1d6+7 piercing plus 1d4 good
Divine Innate Spells DC 23; 4th suggestion; 3rd heroism; 2nd heal, mirror image
(at will); 1st charm (at will); Constant (5th) tongues
Change Shape Ȱɵ (concentrate, divine, polymorph, transmutation) The gancanagh
can take on the appearance of any Small or Medium humanoid. This doesn’t
change their Speed or their attack and damage bonuses with their Strikes, but
might change the damage type their Strikes deal (typically to bludgeoning).
Invigorating Passion ʚʖ (divine, emotion, enchantment, mental) The gancanagh
embraces or kisses a willing creature, infusing that creature with their
invigorating passion. The creature gains a +1 status bonus to attack rolls
and 10 temporary Hit Points for 10 minutes. After that time, the target
becomes fatigued for 10 minutes unless they succeed at a DC 21
Fortitude save.
p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19668884
4425041
