p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19669100
4425257
L-N
247
Introduction
A-C
D
E-G
H-K
L-N
O-R
S-T
U-Z
Appendix
NYMPH LOCATIONS
Nymphs tend to be closely
associated with speciﬁc areas of
natural splendor and beauty—
woodlands for dryads, rivers for
naiads. Areas where nymphs
dwell always look more pristine,
breathtaking, and scenic than they
would otherwise.
Languages Common, Elven, Sylvan; speak with plants
Skills Acrobatics +9, Athletics +5, Crafting +7 (+9 woodworking), Diplomacy +9,
Nature +13, Stealth +9, Survival +12
Str +0, Dex +4, Con +1, Int +2, Wis +3, Cha +4
Nature Empathy The dryad can use Diplomacy to Make an Impression on and make very
simple Requests of animals and plants.
AC 19; Fort +6, Ref +11, Will +10
HP 55; Weaknesses cold iron 5, ﬁre 5
Tree Dependent A dryad is mystically bonded to a single great tree and must remain
within 300 feet of it. If she moves beyond that range, she becomes sickened 1 and is
unable to recover. She must attempt a DC 18 Fortitude save every hour or increase
the sickened value by 1 (to a maximum of sickened 4). After 24 hours, she becomes
drained 1, with this value increasing by 1 every additional 24 hours. A dryad can
perform a 24-hour ritual to bond herself to a new tree.
Speed 25 feet
Melee Ȱɵ branch +12 (ﬁnesse, magical), Damage 1d12+2 bludgeoning
Primal Innate Spells DC 21, attack +11; 5th tree stride (×2); 4th charm (×3), suggestion;
3rd sleep; 2nd entangle (at will), tree shape (at will); Cantrips
(2nd) tanglefoot; Constant (4th) speak with plants
Tree Meld ʚʖ (primal, transmutation) The dryad touches a tree of
enough volume to contain her and merges into it for as long as she
wishes. She can Cast a Spell while inside as long as the spell doesn’t
require a line of eﬀect outside the tree. She can hear, but not
see, what’s going on outside the tree. She can
Dismiss this eﬀect.
Signiﬁcant physical damage dealt to the
tree expels the dryad from the tree and deals
3d6 damage to her. Passwall expels the dryad
without dealing damage.
If a dryad uses this ability on her bonded tree, she instead enters an
extradimensional living space within the tree; Tree Meld gains the
extradimensional trait. A dryad can bring up to two other creatures
with her when entering her home within her bonded tree. The dryad
can still be expelled from this space as above.
Nymph Queens
Nymph queens are powerful nymphs that rule over entire regions of
untouched wilderness, not just single trees or ponds. Every variety of
nymph can have a queen. Naiad queens are among the most prominent, and
more often interact with nearby mortals. Thus, some scholars refer to naiad
queens as simply “nymphs.”
Nymph Queen Abilities
A nymph queen is 6 to 10 levels higher than an ordinary nymph of the same
type, with enhanced numerical statistics and improved Strikes to match. A nymph
queen’s ward is a signiﬁcant region, and she strengthens and viviﬁes this territory
with her presence. Nymph queens are not dependent on their wards and lose the
corresponding ability (such as a dryad’s tree dependent ability); instead, they gain
the tied to the land ability, as described below. A nymph queen also gains the
nymph’s beauty aura and the Focus Beauty action, which have varying effects based
on the queen’s original type. She gains the Inspiration ability, allowing her to bestow
a gift of inspiration on those who catch her fancy, and the Change Shape ability to
change her form. Finally, she gains primal prepared spells as a druid of her level.
Change Shape Ȱɵ (polymorph, primal, transmutation) Nymph queens can transform
between their original form, which looks much like a typical nymph of their kind, and
any Small or Medium humanoid form, typically choosing a more humanoid-looking
version of their natural form.
p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19669100
4425257
