p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19668991
4425148
Bestiary
138
OCCULT TRADITIONS
Unlike classical dwarven
practitioners of magic, duergars
have embraced the practice of
occultism. All duergars have at
least a few innate occult spells,
primary among them being the
ability to magically increase their
size. This power not only aids
them in intimidating and bullying
their slaves, but also serves as
a potent combat option against
their many enemies.
Duergar
Deep beneath the surface, duergars stubbornly claim the ancestral subterranean
homelands of the dwarves as their own, having refused to venture to the
surface along with their modern dwarven cousins. An exiled dwarven deity
named Droskar offered duergars salvation from the horrors of the Darklands,
and in exchange duergars endlessly toil in his honor within their subterranean
empire. Notorious slavers, duergars regularly raid other Darklands settlements
as well as surface communities in constant search of living beings to task with
endless amounts of work in their harsh and exhausting settlements.
Duergars are gray-skinned creatures, often referred to as “ashen” by those
surface dwarves willing to speak of them. These subterranean dwarves have a
strong natural connection with cave-dwelling vermin, and it’s common to see
duergar caravans drawn by teams of immense beetles. Most duergars devote
themselves to the worship of Droskar, a taskmaster of a god who demands
back-breaking toil in addition to regular prayer. Duergar leadership often
consists of powerful divine servants of Droskar, along with incredibly stout
warriors whose martial prowess ensures they can overcome any direct threat
to their rule. Almost every aspect of duergar society is controlled by a strict
hierarchy of leadership, with taskmasters directing subordinates across all
walks of life.
Duergar Sharpshooter
Duergar sharpshooters serve both as ranged support for slaver parties and
as snipers posted on towers overlooking quarries and other areas where
enslaved workers toil away the hours. Duergar sharpshooters also specialize
in nonlethal methods of ranged combat—tactics they are often called upon to
use when quelling slave riots or capturing escaped slaves.
DUERGAR SHARPSHOOTER
CREATURE 0
LE
MEDIUM
DUERGAR
DWARF
HUMANOID
Perception +4; darkvision
Languages Common, Dwarven, Undercommon
Skills Athletics +3, Stealth +5
Str +1, Dex +3, Con +3, Int +0, Wis +2, Cha –2
Items chain shirt, crossbow (3 bola bolts and 10 bolts), light mace
AC 17; Fort +7, Ref +7, Will +4; +2 status to saves vs. magic
HP 16
Light Blindness
Speed 20 feet
Melee Ȱɵ light mace +5 (agile, ﬁnesse, shove), Damage 1d4+1 bludgeoning
Ranged Ȱɵ crossbow +7 (range increment 120 feet, reload 1), Damage 1d8
piercing or bola bolt
Occult Innate Spells DC 12; 2nd enlarge (self only), invisibility (self only)
Bola Bolt This shot deals no damage, but on a hit, the target must succeed at a
DC 16 Reﬂex save or be knocked prone and immobilized until it is freed with a
successful DC 15 check to Escape. This check can be attempted either by the
target or a creature adjacent to the target.
Duergar Bombardier
Alchemy intrigues many duergars, and their cruel traditions often
motivate them to experiment on slaves. Eager to inﬂict pain
and justify the abuse as a method of expanding knowledge,
duergar bombardiers often accompany slaver bands so they can have the ﬁrst
chance to select their next test subjects from captured victims. To duergar
bombardiers, the lob of each bomb represents a new opportunity to observe
how their targets react and record the results to enhance future modiﬁcations
to their alchemical concoctions.
p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19668991
4425148
