p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19669009
4425166
Bestiary
156
LOSING A HEAD
An ettin who loses one of its heads
is a sorry sight indeed. Rather than
clean and cauterize the stump, an
ettin will typically leave as much
of its decapitated head attached as
possible, even possibly attempting
to sew a completely severed head
back on or keep it in a knapsack
strung around its shoulder.
Ettin
Two heads aren’t always better than one. The slovenly, violent giants known as
ettins are proof enough of that.
The origin of these two-headed brutes is unknown, but few who encounter
ettins ponder their beginnings for long. Rather, the ﬁrst priority for most creatures
during such a confrontation is escape, which is not easy to accomplish given the
ettins’ notorious vigilance. In this way, two heads are better than one—ettins
regularly ﬁnd employ in the ranks of giant or orc armies as sentries and guards.
The beneﬁts of an ettin security detail are obvious: because it has a shared
stomach, an ettin requires only the same amount of food as one typical ogre,
yet its two sets of eyes make it twice as observant. An ettin never complains for
lack of company, either. The ettin’s two heads are uniquely content to squabble
and converse between themselves, and though they bicker incessantly, most
couldn’t dream of life without the other. Much like some twins, an ettin has
two individual minds who nonetheless consider the other as much a part of
their life as their own self.
Ettins do not resemble a single giant heritage so much as an amalgamation
of several. Their tusks are thought to stem from orc ancestry, though their size
and dimness suggest hill giant blood. Though they tower over goblins
and hobgoblins, ettins are more than at home among tribes of these
creatures and enjoy their comfortable stations as camp lookouts
or troop rearguards. Their exposure to a wide variety of
goblinoids and giants is evident in their language; ettins
speak a pidgin tongue of Goblin, Jotun, and Orcish,
and their diction is mostly good enough to get across
the general meaning of their short sentences and
bumbled sayings—although most interlocutors
simply nod their heads while conversing
with an ettin anyway. The monsters are
notoriously short tempered and, despite their
heightened visual perception, short sighted in
matters of keeping their allies alive.
ETTIN
CREATURE 6
CE
LARGE
GIANT
HUMANOID
Perception +16; low-light vision
Languages pidgin of Goblin, Jotun, and Orcish
Skills Athletics +16, Intimidation +10
Str +6, Dex –1, Con +4, Int –2, Wis +2, Cha +0
Independent Brains Each of an ettin’s heads rolls its own
initiative and has its own turn. Neither head can Delay. At
the start of a head’s turn, that head gets 2 actions and 1
reaction. Each brain controls one of the ettin’s arms, but
both can move the legs. Any ability that would sever
an ettin’s head (such as the vorpal weapon property)
doesn’t cause the ettin to die if it still has its other
head, but does cause it to lose the turns, actions,
and reactions of the severed head. Mental eﬀects
that target a single creature aﬀect only one of
the ettin’s heads.
Items ﬂail (2)
AC 21; Fort +16, Ref +11, Will +12
HP 110
Attack of Opportunity Ǻȓ
Speed 35 feet
Melee Ȱɵ ﬂail +16 (disarm, reach 10 feet, sweep, trip), Damage 2d6+10 bludgeoning
Melee Ȱɵ ﬁst +16 (agile, reach 10 feet), Damage 1d6+10 bludgeoning
p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19669009
4425166
