p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19669127
4425284
Bestiary
274
RAKSHASA IMMORTALS
Above all rakshasas rule the
rakshasa immortals, powerful
unique entities who deem
themselves deities. These beings
include Aksha of the Second
Breath, Bundha the Singing
Butcher, Dradjit the Godslayer,
Kunkarna the Dream Warrior,
Mursha the Beastmaster,
Otikaya the Spirit Archer,
Surpa the Avenger,
Zabha the Desecrator,
and untold others.
Rakshasa
Rakshasas are evil spirits that cloak themselves in the guises of humanoid
creatures, that they might walk unseen among their prey. They embody what
is taboo among most societies, and in the shape of those they seek to deﬁle,
rakshasas gorge themselves on these hideous acts. A wide range of rakshasas
exist; presented below are the diminutive, sinister dandasuka rakshasa and the
infamous raja rakshasa, who are the most widespread and commonly encountered
of these ﬁends.
Dandasuka
Known as “biters” among the more powerful rakshasa castes, dandasukas serve
as spies and assassins for rakshasa clans or powerful spellcasters who have
found methods to bind one of these ﬁends to their will. Born to manipulate and
murder, these half-sized terrors revel in their work and delight in the sight of
blood. They often dress in extravagant clothes dyed with ostentatious colors
and wear numerous elaborate accessories, whether in their true form or in
disguise as human children, halﬂing merchants, or anything else that helps them
blend into their targeted society.
A dandasuka rakshasa is constantly haunted by a monstrous hunger that
gnaws at its hyperactive body, forcing it to feed often. In combat, a dandasuka
might pause to lick a bloody blade or lap at a pool of spilled blood on the ﬂoor.
These creatures settle for other meat when they must, but much prefer the taste
of mortal humanoid ﬂesh. Regular offers of such victuals can keep a dandasuka
loyal to anyone willing to provide frequent meals, but care must be taken in
keeping a dandasuka, for many stories tell of them being overly eager to serve
an adored benefactor, taking off-hand remarks too literally, and
performing services of violence that were never intended.
DANDASUKA
CREATURE 5
LE
SMALL
FIEND
RAKSHASA
Perception +12; darkvision
Languages Common, Infernal, Undercommon
Skills Acrobatics +13, Deception +14, Stealth +13,
Thievery +13
Str +1, Dex +4, Con +3, Int +1, Wis +1, Cha +3
AC 23; Fort +12, Ref +13, Will +10; +2 status to all saves vs. magic,
+3 status to all saves vs. divine magic
HP 60; Weaknesses good 5; Resistances physical 5 (except
piercing)
Speed 25 feet, climb 20 feet
Melee Ȱɵ fangs +15 (ﬁnesse, magical), Damage 2d6+4
piercing plus 1d6 persistent bleed
Melee Ȱɵ claw +15 (agile, ﬁnesse, magical), Damage
2d4+4 slashing
Occult Spontaneous Spells DC 22, attack +15; 1st
(4  slots) charm, ventriloquism; Cantrips (1st) daze,
detect magic, ghost sound, mage hand, sigil
Occult Innate Spells DC 19; 4th clairvoyance; 3rd
clairaudience, mind reading (at will)
Change Shape Ȱɵ (concentrate, occult, polymorph, transmutation) The
dandasuka takes on the appearance of any Small humanoid. This doesn’t
change the dandasuka’s Speed or its attack and damage modiﬁers with
its Strikes, but it might change the damage type its Strikes deal
(typically to bludgeoning). It typically loses its fangs Strike unless
the humanoid form has fangs or a similar unarmed attack.
Sneak Attack The dandasuka deals an extra 1d6 precision
damage to ﬂat-footed creatures.
p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19669127
4425284
