p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19669049
4425206
Bestiary
196
DEAD MAN’S HAND
Decks of cards are a traditional
method used to tell a person’s
fortune, but legends hold that
certain cards or combinations of
unfortunate draws can attract
the attention of the grim reaper.
Specialized fortune-telling decks,
such as the Harrow, might
not feature the visage of the
grim reaper directly, but to the
paranoid, death could lurk in any
unfortunate hand of cards.
Grim Reaper
The Grim Reaper is the unﬂinching personiﬁcation of death. Silent as the grave and
as inevitable as time itself, this legendary being hunts down and ﬁnishes creatures
that have evaded death for far too long. Sometimes the Grim Reaper comes
without warning, while at others it comes to ﬁnish the work that other creatures
could not. The Grim Reaper serves no god, ﬁend, or aeon. It is both despised
and feared by psychopomps and celestials, but few—if any—dare to stand in its
way. Like some eternal plague, it kills those who try to cure the multiverse of its
presence. It stands alone and holds only its own council, and the pleading and
reasoning of mortals and immortals alike fall on deaf ears once the Grim Reaper
closes on its quarry. Its own reasoning is silent to mortal ears and inscrutable to
the mortal mind, but no matter the reason, the result is unyielding and ﬁnal.
While some legends hold that the Grim Reaper appears before everyone as
they die, the truth is quite a bit more disturbing. Such vigils in fact lie within the
providence of the psychopomps, a race of immortals charged with the protection
and guidance of mortal souls through the afterlife. The Grim Reaper has little
interest in protecting souls or guiding them. It is instead compelled by sinister
agendas arising within the nighted realm of Abaddon, where the Horsemen of the
Apocalypse rule. Indeed there are many similarities in shape and form between
the Grim Reaper and Charon, the Horseman of Death, but no recorded instance
exists of these two powerful entities working together. Instead, the Grim Reaper
serves as something of a manifestation of Abaddon itself, and in this regard is
believed by some to be an incarnation of the mysterious First Horseman. When
the Grim Reaper comes to a world, it does so not as an angel of mercy, but as a
relentless harvester of life. Those who fall to the Grim Reaper were not destined
to die as much as they were selected, hunted, and murdered.
Perhaps the most frightening legends surrounding the Grim Reaper concern
its nature as a singular entity, for some believe that more than one grim reaper
exists in the Great Beyond. These whispers tell of a cabal of at least nine of
these creatures that stalk reality, culling the living as inexplicable servants of
true entropy. According to the teaching of some death cults, the ﬁnal goal of the
Grim Reaper is to end the entire cycle of life and death and serve as a silent lord
of an empty universe.
GRIM REAPER
CREATURE 21
UNIQUE
NE
MEDIUM
UNDEAD
Perception +41; darkvision, see invisibility, status sight, true seeing
Languages Common, Necril
Skills Acrobatics +43, Athletics +38, Deception +40, Intimidation +43, Religion +39,
Society +36, Stealth +43
Str +8, Dex +10, Con +8, Int +5, Wis +7, Cha +8
Items scythe
Death’s Grace The grim reaper can choose whether or not it counts as undead for eﬀects
that aﬀect undead diﬀerently. Even if it does not count as undead, the grim reaper still
never counts as a living creature.
Status Sight The grim reaper automatically knows the Hit Points, conditions, aﬄictions,
and emotions of all creatures it can see.
AC 47; Fort +37, Ref +41, Will +38; +1 status to all saves vs. magic
HP 320, negative healing; Immunities death eﬀects, disease, paralyzed, poison,
unconscious; Resistances all damage 15
Aura of Misfortune (aura, divination, divine, misfortune) 20 feet. Living creatures in the
aura must roll twice on all d20 rolls and use the lower result.
Negative Healing The grim reaper can choose whether or not it takes positive damage.
Lurking Death Ǻȓ (teleportation); Trigger A creature within 100 feet makes a ranged
attack or uses an action that has the concentrate, manipulate, or move trait. Eﬀect
The grim reaper teleports to a square adjacent to the triggering creature and makes a
melee Strike against it. If the Strike hits, the grim reaper disrupts the triggering action.
p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19669049
4425206
