p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19669107
4425264
Bestiary
254
OOZING ACID
Many oozes have acidic attacks
that can quickly degrade ﬂesh,
wood, and even stronger materials.
Some believe that oozes are the
result of alchemical or magical
experimentation run amok,
while others postulate that they
simply emerged from the natural
processes of evolution.
Oozes
Slimes, molds, and other oozes can be found in dank dungeons and shadowed forests.
While not necessarily evil, some grow to enormous sizes and have insatiable appetites.
Sewer Ooze
These amorphous masses of sewage and other detritus make their way through
ﬁlthy culverts beneath cities large and small.
SEWER OOZE
CREATURE 1
N
MEDIUM
MINDLESS
OOZE
Perception +3; motion sense 60 feet, no vision
Skills Stealth +1 (+4 in sewers)
Str +2, Dex –5, Con +4, Int –5, Wis +0, Cha –5
Motion Sense A sewer ooze can sense nearby motion through vibration and air movement.
AC 8; Fort +9, Ref +1, Will +3
HP 40; Immunities acid, critical hits, mental, precision, unconscious, visual
Speed 10 feet
Melee Ȱɵ pseudopod +9; Damage 1d6+1 bludgeoning plus 1d4 acid
Filth Wave Ȱɵ Frequency once per minute; Eﬀect The sewer ooze unleashes a wave of ﬁlth,
covering all creatures within a 20-foot emanation. Each creature in the area must succeed
at a DC 17 Reﬂex save or take 1d4 acid damage and take a –10-foot penalty to its Speeds for
1 minute (on a critical failure, the creature also falls prone). A creature can spend an Interact
action to clean someone oﬀ, decreasing the Speed penalty by 5 feet with each action.
Gelatinous Cube
Found underground or in dungeons, these quivering cubes of slime continuously scour
their domain for food. The acid in their bodies is weak enough that many gelatinous
cubes still contain the gear of their victims, as they’re unable to break them down.
GELATINOUS CUBE
CREATURE 3
N
LARGE
MINDLESS
OOZE
Perception +5; motion sense 60 feet, no vision
Skills Athletics +11 (+13 to Shove)
Str +4, Dex –5, Con +5, Int –5, Wis +0, Cha –5
Motion Sense As sewer ooze.
Transparent A gelatinous cube is so clear that it’s diﬃcult to spot. A
successful DC 23 Perception check is required to notice a stationary cube,
and a creature must be Searching to attempt this check. A creature that
walks into the cube is automatically Engulfed (this usually causes the GM
to call for initiative).
AC 10 Fort +12, Ref +0, Will +5
HP 90; Immunities acid, critical hits, mental, precision, unconscious, visual;
Resistances electricity 5
Speed 15 feet
Melee Ȱɵ cube face +11, Damage 1d6 acid plus paralysis
Engulf ʚʖ DC 19, 2d6 acid, Escape DC 19, Rupture 7. A creature Engulfed by
the gelatinous cube must also attempt a saving throw against paralysis.
Paralysis (incapacitation) A creature Engulfed by the cube or hit by
its attack is paralyzed unless it succeeds at a DC 20 Fortitude save. A
victim can attempt a new save to recover at the end of each of its turns.
Weak Acid A gelatinous cube’s acid damages only organic material—not
metal, stone, or other inorganic substances.
Ochre Jelly
Ochre jellies are animate masses of protoplasm with a sickly combination
of yellow, orange, and brown hues. Their acidic bodies dissolve ﬂesh but
leave other materials, including a victim’s gear and bones, intact. Some
p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19669107
4425264
