p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19669117
4425274
Bestiary
264
POLTERGEIST TREASURE
A poltergeist needs items to
hurl as weapons, and over the
centuries of use, only durable
objects survive its rampages.
Silver dinnerware, hatchets, and
books might all be found in a
poltergeist’s collection.
Poltergeist
When a creature dies, and for whatever reason its spirit is unable or unwilling
to leave the site of its death, that spirit may manifest as a poltergeist: a restless
invisible spirit that is still able to manipulate physical objects. Many poltergeists
perished in a way that resulted from or has led to extreme emotional trauma.
POLTERGEIST
CREATURE 5
LE
MEDIUM
INCORPOREAL
SPIRIT
UNDEAD
Perception +11; darkvision
Languages Common
Skills Acrobatics +14, Intimidation +15, Stealth +14
Str –5, Dex +5, Con +0, Int –1, Wis +2, Cha +4
Site Bound A poltergeist is tied to a location and can’t travel more than 120 feet from
the place where it was created or formed. Some poltergeists are instead bound to a
speciﬁc room, building, or similar area.
AC 22; Fort +9, Ref +14, Will +13
HP 55, rejuvenation; Immunities death eﬀects, disease, paralyzed, poison, precision,
unconscious; Resistances all damage 5 (except force, ghost touch, or positive; double
resistance against non-magical)
Natural Invisibility A poltergeist is naturally invisible. It becomes
visible only when it uses Frighten.
Rejuvenation (necromancy, occult) When a poltergeist is
destroyed, it re-forms, fully healed, where it was destroyed
after 2d4 days. A poltergeist can be permanently destroyed
only if someone determines the reason for its existence and
sets right whatever prevents the spirit from resting.
Telekinetic Defense Ǻȓ Trigger A creature approaches within
10 feet of the poltergeist. Eﬀect The poltergeist makes a
telekinetic object Strike against the triggering creature.
Speed ﬂy 20 feet
Ranged Ȱɵ telekinetic object +13 (evocation, magical, occult,
range increment 60 feet), Damage 2d12 bludgeoning,
piercing, or slashing (depending on object)
Occult Innate Spells DC 23, attack +13; 3rd telekinetic
maneuver (at will); Cantrips (3rd) mage hand
Frighten Ȱɵ (concentrate, emotion, fear, incapacitation,
mental); Requirement The poltergeist must be invisible.
Eﬀect The poltergeist becomes visible, appearing as a
skeletal, ghostlike humanoid. Each creature within 30 feet
must attempt a DC 21 Will save, becoming frightened 2 on a failure.
On a critical failure, it’s also ﬂeeing for as long as it’s frightened. On
a success, the creature is temporarily immune for 1 minute. At the
start of its next turn, the poltergeist becomes invisible again.
Telekinetic Storm ʚʖ (concentrate, evocation, occult); The
poltergeist telekinetically throws numerous small objects,
such as dozens of pieces of silverware or books, either
spreading them out among multiple foes or directing
them at one target.
•
When this eﬀect is spread out among multiple foes,
the poltergeist makes a telekinetic object Strike at a
–2 penalty against each creature within 30 feet. These
count as one attack for the poltergeist’s multiple attack
penalty, and the penalty doesn’t increase until after all
the attacks.
•	 When this eﬀect has only one target, the poltergeist makes a telekinetic object
Strike against the target, and the damage increases to 3d12. It deals 1d12 damage
on a failure, and no damage on a critical failure.
DISTURBED REST
One of the most common ways
for a poltergeist to form is when
its burial site is desecrated by
the construction of a dwelling.
This is usually an accident, but
some evil creatures seek out such
burial sites, intentionally creating
poltergeists to serve as guardians.
p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19669117
4425274
