p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19668923
4425080
Bestiary
70
Daemon
Denizens of the bleak and terrible plane of Abaddon, daemons are shaped by and
devoted to the destruction of life in all its forms. They seek the death of every mortal
being by the most painful and horrible means possible, all in service to the apocalyptic
entities known as the Four Horsemen. Each kind of daemon represents a different
way to die, and their powers are nearly always aimed at spreading that particular
form of death. Through the use of these powers, they seek to drag all existence down
into a pit of hopelessness and despair, and to commit all souls to oblivion.
While those who summon daemons to the Material Plane usually seek to use
the creatures’ destructive and corrupting powers for their own ends, daemons
always look for ways to spread fear, doubt, and despair wherever they go. Often,
daemons disguise their plots as the workings of other ﬁends, knowing that such
confusion compounds mortals’ fear.
While all ﬁends seek to tempt mortals into lives of evil to increase their own
numbers and power on their native planes, daemons are further driven by a
supernatural hunger for mortal souls and use a variety of methods—not least
of which is the cacodaemons’ soul gems—to entrap them. On Abaddon and in
other forbidding places across the multiverse, souls are simultaneously a delicacy,
a trade good, and a source of magical power, and the daemons are among the
greatest gluttons, merchants, and abusers of this spiritual “resource.”
Cacodaemon (Harvester Daemon)
These embodiments of demented violence and spite are spawned from eddies of
angry and warped souls amid Abaddon’s mists. Cacodaemons constantly hunger
for mortal souls and yearn to create suffering. As gnashing spheres of teeth, ﬁns, and
spines, they are the weakest of daemonkind, an amalgam of various petty forms of
death without the strength that comes from focusing on a single cause of demise.
CACODAEMON
CREATURE 1
NE
TINY
DAEMON
FIEND
Perception +6; darkvision
Languages Common, Daemonic; telepathy 100 feet
Skills Acrobatics +8, Deception +5, Religion +6, Stealth +8
Str +0, Dex +3, Con +2, Int –1, Wis +1, Cha +2
AC 16; Fort +7, Ref +8, Will +6
HP 22; Immunities death eﬀects; Weaknesses good 3
Speed 5 feet, ﬂy 40 feet
Melee Ȱɵ jaws +8 (agile, disease, evil, ﬁnesse, magical)
Damage 1d8 piercing plus 1d4 evil and cacodaemonia
Divine Innate Spells DC 17; 4th read omens; 2nd invisibility
(at will; self only); 1st detect alignment (at will; good only),
fear; Cantrips (1st) detect magic (at will)
Cacodaemonia (disease) The cacodaemon can telepathically
communicate with the aﬄicted creature at any distance on the
same plane; Saving Throw DC 17 Fortitude; Stage 1 carrier (1
day); Stage 2 stupeﬁed 1 (1 day); Stage 3 stupeﬁed 2 (1 day)
Change Shape Ȱɵ (concentrate, divine, polymorph, transmutation)
•
Lizard Speed 20 feet; Melee jaws +8 (agile, ﬁnesse), Damage 1d8+1
piercing
•	 Octopus size Small; Speed 20 feet, swim 30 feet; Melee tentacle +8
(ﬁnesse), Damage 1d8+1 bludgeoning plus Grab; Melee beak +8 (agile,
ﬁnesse), Damage 1d6 piercing plus 2 poison
•	 Scorpion size Small; Speed 30 feet; Melee pincer +8 (agile, ﬁnesse), Damage
1d6+1 bludgeoning plus Grab; Melee stinger +8 (agile, ﬁnesse), Damage 1d6+1
piercing plus 1d4 poison
Soul Lock ̂ˬ (death, divine, necromancy) Once per day, a cacodaemon can ingest the soul
of a sentient creature within 30 feet that died within the last minute. When it does, the
DAEMONIC DIVINITIES
Numerous powerful and unique
daemon demigods, known
collectively as harbingers, rule
over swaths of Abaddon. Above
these demigods, though, are
entities of even greater power—the
four Horsemen of the Apocalypse.
As the eons go on, the names and
identities of speciﬁc horsemen
change. Currently, they consist of
Apollyon (Horseman of Pestilence),
Charon (Horseman of Death),
Szuriel (Horseman of War),
and Trelmarixian (Horseman of
Famine). Of these, only Charon has
never fallen to an upstart. Some
hold that a “Fifth Horseman” once
ruled over the other four, while
others maintain that the eternally
eclipsed sun in the skies above
Abaddon is all that remains of this
long-dead god.
p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19668923
4425080
