p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19669113
4425270
Bestiary
260
CORRUPTED PEGASI
When a foul inﬂuence from the
ﬁendish planes, a necromantic
blight, or any other sinister
inﬂuence spreads through a
wilderness, pegasi can become
corrupted. These neutral evil
pegasi have the same statistics
as those presented here, but are
much more violent.
Pegasus
The pegasus is a winged horse prized for its capacity to serve as an aerial mount.
Unfortunately for those who desire a saddle-trained pegasus, pegasi are wild
creatures and do not readily accept even well-intentioned riders. Pegasi actively
resist being mounted or controlled by evil creatures, attempting to buck an
unwanted rider at every opportunity. A typical pegasus stands 6 feet high at the
shoulder, weighs 1,500 pounds, and has a wingspan of 20 feet.
Pegasi are highly intelligent beasts and have a strong sense of pride and
honor. The best way to entreat a pegasus is by speaking to it with grace and
offering gifts appropriate to a creature of such majesty. Prospective riders who
seek the mount for a worthy cause or virtuous quest have a much easier time
coaxing a pegasus into granting its favor. Regardless, a pegasus never accepts
a bit or saddle, for reasons both practical (a standard horse saddle
interferes with its wings) and purely egotistical.
In the wild, pegasi live in small herds and establish
territories on remote mountains where they
are relatively safe
from hunters and
slavers. They mature at the
same rate as horses and can even
breed with other equines, though the
outcome of such unions is typically a foal with
the traits of its least magical parent. On rare occasions,
the interbreeding of a pegasus and a unicorn may result in
a winged unicorn with characteristics of both parents and an
unrivaled sense of righteousness.
Some pegasi carry in them the blood of a mighty and heroic ancestor. These
champions of pegasus-kind dedicate their long lives to the pursuit of justice.
They possess powerful supernatural abilities to aid them in this ﬁght, such as
resistance to ﬁre and poison, immunity to petriﬁcation, and holy hoof attacks.
PEGASUS
CREATURE 3
NG
LARGE
BEAST
Perception +12; darkvision, scent (imprecise) 30 feet
Languages Common (can’t speak any language)
Skills Acrobatics +11, Athletics +10
Str +3, Dex +4, Con +2, Int +0, Wis +2, Cha +3
AC 19; Fort +9, Ref +11, Will +7
HP 55
Buck Ǻȓ DC 19
Speed 40 feet, ﬂy 80 feet
Melee Ȱɵ hoof +10, Damage 1d8+5 bludgeoning
Melee Ȱɵ wing +10 (agile), Damage 1d6+5 bludgeoning
Assisted Mount Ȱɵ Requirement The pegasus is Flying without a rider. Eﬀect The
pegasus Flies. At any point during the movement, it can allow a willing adjacent
creature to Mount it. That creature must use a reaction to do so.
Gallop ʚʖ The pegasus uses 2 move actions, each of which can be either Stride or
Fly. It gains a +20-foot circumstance bonus to its Speeds during a Gallop.
p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19669113
4425270
