p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19669053
4425210
Bestiary
200
HATERS OF HUMANITY
Hags loathe all humanoid races,
but not equally—the brunt of their
wrath is leveled against humans.
Hags prey on human society the
most, adding human ﬂesh to their
cauldron and snatching newborn
children before replacing the
babes with their own progeny as
changelings (page 62).
Hag
Malevolent crones who lurk at the edges of civilization, hags use their deceptive,
magical abilities to prey upon humanoids, manipulating and corrupting them.
Some say hags arose from fey that became twisted by their inner selﬁshness.
Hags gather together in covens for greater power, craft unique magical items
known as hag eyes, and are known to replace infant humanoids with their own
offspring—these children are changelings (page 62) who have the potential to
become hags themselves.
Sea Hag
Sea hags kill and eat ﬁshers and sailors who come near their lairs, torment coastal
dwellers with dark promises and vague threats, and enjoy the act of causing
distress and discord in small towns. They generally avoid making their lairs too
close to civilization, however, to avoid drawing enemies to their homes. Sea hags
are known for tempting desperate victims into tragic and inescapable bargains,
deals which the hag has already secretly stacked in her favor. Despite their
voracious appetites, sea hags appear hideously emaciated,
and unlike more powerful hags, they lack the ability
to magically disguise their form.
Sea hags can join covens, but their aquatic nature
often prevents them from joining mixed covens
with other kinds of hags.
SEA HAG
CREATURE 3
CE
MEDIUM
AMPHIBIOUS
HAG
HUMANOID
Perception +10; darkvision
Languages Aklo, Common, Jotun
Skills Acrobatics +8, Athletics +11, Deception +10,
Occultism +8, Stealth +8
Str +4, Dex +3, Con +4, Int +1, Wis +3, Cha +3
Coven A sea hag adds acid arrow, mariner’s curse, and water
walk to her coven’s spells.
Sea Hag’s Bargain (necromancy, occult)
The sea hag can make a bargain with
a willing creature, who must be of
sound mind. The creature gives away
a special or cherished quality—such
as its courage, its beauty, or its voice—in
exchange for a boon or a promise from the sea hag. As long as the sea hag keeps her
end of the bargain, the only way to restore the lost quality is to defeat the sea hag
or make another bargain for its return.
AC 19; Fort +11, Ref +8, Will +10, +1 status to all saves vs. magic
HP 45; Weaknesses cold iron 3
Speed 25 feet, swim 35 feet
Melee Ȱɵ claw +12 (agile, magical), Damage 1d10+4 slashing
Dread Gaze ʚʖ (curse, emotion, fear, mental, occult) The hag gazes upon a
creature, aﬄicting it with intense distress and a gnawing sense of impending
doom, with a result depending on its Will save (DC 20). The target does not
need to be able to see the sea hag.
Critical Success No eﬀect.
Success Frightened 1.
Failure Frightened 1 and slowed 1 for 1 round. If the target was dying, it remains
unconscious for 1 day. At the end of the day, it must attempt a Fortitude save against
the same DC; if it fails, it dies.
Critical Failure Frightened 2 and slowed 1 for 1 minute. If the target was dying, it remains
unconscious for 1 day. At the end of the day, it must attempt a Fortitude save against
the same DC; if it fails, it dies.
p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19669053
4425210
