p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19669186
4425343
U-Z
333
Introduction
A-C
D
E-G
H-K
L-N
O-R
S-T
U-Z
Appendix
EYES OF THE DEAD
The elder goddess Nhimbaloth,
the so-called "Empty Death," is
said by many to be the source
of all will‑o’‑wisps. Cultists of
Nhimbaloth claim she has no true
form, but is merely a presence
that can be felt by all in danger
of a pointless and futile death.
These same cultists maintain that
all will‑o’‑wisps are Nhimbaloth’s
eyes, and it is through these
fear‑devouring creatures that she
looks upon all worlds from an
eldritch realm beyond even the
very concept of death.
Will-o’-Wisp
Malevolent balls of colored light, will-o’-wisps haunt lonely marshes and forests
where they lure unsuspecting travelers into danger. Will-o’-wisps can vary the
color and illumination they shed, and delight in mimicking bobbing lanterns
or distant ﬁres to draw lost or disoriented travelers off of safe trails. They can
extinguish their illumination entirely to become invisible, and they enjoy doing
so once their victims are wholly lost and have realized that the bobbing light
in the distance isn’t, in fact, leading them to safety. Even invisible, however, a
will-o’-wisp rarely ventures far from its target, as it feasts upon the panic and
dread felt by its victims.
Beneath its glow, a will-o’-wisp’s body is a spongy ball approximately 1 foot in
diameter and weighing less than 5 pounds. Although most will-o’-wisps are merely
translucent, featureless orbs, gaining deﬁnition only in the shifting illumination
they create, a few have dark mottling that makes them resemble a skull when
viewed closely. Will-o’-wisps have no need for mundane nourishment, and in fact
lack the ability to consume matter of any kind; they ﬁnd all the sustenance they
need in the terror of nearby creatures. For this reason, they like to work alongside
undead that produce terror in their victims. Will-o’-wisps are long-lived, if not
effectively immortal, and they have good memories. A cowed or defeated will-
o’-wisp can be a good source of lore and information, though acquiring such
cooperation from such a sinister monster is no easy feat.
Will-o’-wisps inhabit desolate swamps and forests and are generally active
at twilight and after dark. They are therefore reluctant to lead victims into
immediately fatal areas such as deadfalls, but instead prefer hazards where their
victims suffer over a long time, such as pockets of stale or poisonous air, patches
of quicksand, and dens of bigger monsters. According to will-o’-wisps, different
types of fear have subtle differences in ﬂavor. The lurking dread in the pit of the
stomach that gnaws at those who slowly become aware of the fact that they’re
lost produces a much different taste than the sudden stark terror of imminent
death in the face of a towering monster. Because of this, will-o’-wisps try to vary
the ways in which they induce terror in their prey, to ensure they don’t tire of
certain ﬂavors of fear.
WILL-O’-WISP
CREATURE 6
CE
SMALL
ABERRATION
AIR
Perception +16; darkvision
Languages Aklo, Common
Skills Acrobatics +18, Deception +12, Intimidation +12, Stealth +16
Str –5, Dex +6, Con +0, Int +2, Wis +4, Cha +2
AC 27; Fort +10, Ref +16, Will +14
HP 50; Immunities magic
Glow (aura, light) 20 feet. A will-o’-wisp is itself naturally invisible,
but glows with a colored light, casting bright light in the aura and
making it visible.
Magic Immunity A will-o’-wisp is immune to all spells except faerie
ﬁre, glitterdust, magic missile, and maze.
Speed ﬂy 50 feet
Melee Ȱɵ shock +17 (electricity, magical), Damage 2d8+4 electricity
Feed on Fear Ȱɵ (concentrate); Requirement An enemy is under a fear
eﬀect or dying within 15 feet of the will-o’-wisp. Eﬀect The will-o’-
wisp feeds on the creature’s terror. It regains 2d4 Hit Points, and if
it has Gone Dark, its glow reignites. A will-o’-wisp can take this action
only once per round.
Go Dark Ȱɵ (concentrate) The will-o’-wisp extinguishes its glow, becoming invisible.
It can end this eﬀect with another use of this action. If it uses its shock attack while
invisible, the arc of electricity lets any observer determine its location, making the
will-o’-wisp only hidden to all observers until it moves.
p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19669186
4425343
