p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19668969
4425126
Bestiary
116
Dragon, Metallic
Paragons of virtue, nobility, and grace, metallic dragons are benevolent entities
revered as mythic beings akin to gods in both their power and majesty. Few have
ever seen a metallic dragon ﬁrsthand, but tales of their intervention in mortals’
lives—and of their passing—always spread far and wide. Named for the way
their scales resemble the shining metals humanoids use in commerce, warfare,
and industry, these immense beings are diverse in their interests and abilities, and
they don’t seem to mind being associated with such mundane materials. After all,
to compare a gold dragon to a gold coin is like comparing an ocean to a glass of
water—though they may seem similar at ﬁrst glance, the raw power, breadth, and
grandeur of one simply overwhelms the other.
In addition to metallic dragons and their chromatic counterparts
(page 104–115), other types of dragons roam the world and the rest of the
multiverse. In the legendary lands of Tian Xia on the other side of the globe
are the imperial dragons, serpentine beings who protect the cosmic balance and
defend their ancient homeland. Outside the Material Plane, primal dragons such
as the domineering brine dragon and reclusive cloud dragon shape the nature
and goings-on of the Elemental Planes. Countless other types of dragons are sure
to exist, including dragons on far-ﬂung planes of existence and, it is rumored,
primeval dragons who soar between the stars.
Shape-Changing Dragons
Some dragons can take humanoid form, allowing them to inﬁltrate settlements or
inﬂuence others without revealing their true nature. They gain the following ability:
Change Shape Ȱɵ (arcane, concentrate, polymorph, transmutation); The dragon takes on
the appearance of any Small or Medium humanoid. This doesn’t change its Speed or
attack and damage modiﬁers with its Strikes, but might change the damage type its
Strikes deal (typically to bludgeoning).
Metallic Dragon Spellcasters
Each type of metallic dragon features a sidebar on spellcasting dragons of that
kind. To make a metallic dragon spellcaster, remove the dragon’s Draconic
Frenzy and Draconic Momentum abilities, and give it the spells outlined in
its sidebar. You can swap out any number of these with other arcane spells,
provided you keep the same number of spells for each level. You might also
want to increase the dragon’s Intelligence, Wisdom, or Charisma modiﬁer by 1
or 2 to reﬂect its mastery of magic.
Metallic Dragons on Golarion
Metallic dragons are found throughout the Inner Sea region, especially in pockets
of wilderness where they can carve a hideout and then take action on political
and social issues, both in their local area and on a wider scale. Their everlasting
war with chromatic dragons keeps them in close proximity to their evil brethren;
in regions where metallic and chromatic dragons’ territories intersect, humanoid
settlements get caught in the crossﬁre, and villagers and city-dwellers alike
rightfully fear for their own safety.
Silver dragons lair in abundance around the cold wastes west of Mendev, as a
consequence of the days when they joined thousands of crusaders who marched
headlong into the demon-infested Worldwound. Bronze dragons are abundant
in Taldor, and many copper dragons lair in the wilds of Andoran, where they
wage war alongside other freedom ﬁghters to overthrow devils in the neighboring
empire of Cheliax. Perhaps the most extreme example of a metallic dragon taking
part in human affairs is on the island nation of Hermea, where Mengkare—an
ancient gold wyrm—has begun a grand social experiment he calls “the Glorious
Endeavor.” Ostensibly intended to create a future utopia on Golarion, this highly
controversial experiment is instead regarded by many as a cruel and unusual form
of eugenics.
BRASS DRAGON
SPELLCASTERS
Brass dragon spellcasters tend to
cast the following spells.
YOUNG BRASS DRAGON
Arcane Prepared Spells DC 25,
attack +18; 3rd earthbind, paralyze;
2nd humanoid form, mirror image,
resist energy; 1st alarm, sleep,
ventriloquism; Cantrips (3rd)
dancing lights, detect magic, mage
hand, prestidigitation, read aura
ADULT BRASS DRAGON
Arcane Prepared Spells DC 30,
attack +24; As young brass
dragon, plus 5th hallucination,
tongues; 4th confusion,
dimensional anchor, dimension
door; 3rd locate; Cantrips (5th)
dancing lights, detect magic, mage
hand, prestidigitation, read aura
ANCIENT BRASS DRAGON
Arcane Prepared Spells DC 37,
attack +32; As adult brass dragon,
plus 7th power word blind, project
image, reverse gravity; 6th
dominate, teleport, true seeing; 5th
mind probe; Cantrips (7th) dancing
lights, detect magic, mage hand,
prestidigitation, read aura
p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19668969
4425126
