p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19669139
4425296
Bestiary
286
SEA DEVIL “DIPLOMACY”
Sea devils dwell in most of the
world’s oceans, and they view all
others as enemies. When alliances
occur, they usually take place
with singularly powerful allies,
such as aquatic dragons, krakens,
or powerful humanoid villains.
Diplomacy, to a sea devil, typically
consists of violence and warfare.
Sea Devil
Sea devils are horrid, amphibious humanoids who lurk in Golarion’s oceans and
crawl ashore to steal away victims beneath the veil of darkness. When an entire
ﬁshing village disappears overnight, sea devils are the ﬁrst suspects.
Far from mindless monstrosities, sea devils are terribly intelligent, with a cunning
limited only by their strict adherence to hierarchy. They call themselves “sahuagin”
but have wholly embraced their enemies’ name for their kind as their own. Their
cultural militancy enables sea devils to act in concert to perform grand acts of
sabotage, marauding, and pillaging, and only the strongest (and most conniving)
members of the tribe make it to the top of the social ladder. For all their discipline,
however, sea devils are widely known to snap into murderous frenzies at the scent
of blood. Even the best-laid plans can fall apart when a sea devil breaks ranks to
revel in the spilled blood of their victims, an indulgence that can quickly cause
a chain reaction of bloodthirsty ecstasy throughout an entire raiding party. For
this reason, sea devils typically capture landborne quarry using nets and ropes,
dragging them to the depths of the sea before making even a single incision.
Among sea devil society, individuals are rewarded based on their performance
during hunts and shore excursions, with rebels and outliers quickly culled from
the ranks. Every pup is given a fair chance, however, and even the lowest-born
sea devil can strive for the rank of commander, general, or perhaps even king
or queen. Sea devils in positions of leadership tend to be among the largest,
most violent, and most calculating of their kind, and fully realized sea
devils are skilled warriors capable of capturing entire villages on their own.
The most powerful sea devils are mighty kings and queens who coordinate
the activity of lesser sea devils across territories spanning leagues, foiling
attempts at their positions via manufactured blood feuds and wars against
their numerous enemies ashore and underwater.
Sea Devil Scout
Scouts, among the lowliest (and most disposable) of sea devils, ply the inky waters of
the ocean in search of aquatic prey, tread ashore to gauge landborne threats, or charge
into battle with the advance forces of a greater sea devil war party.
SEA DEVIL SCOUT
CREATURE 2
LE
MEDIUM
AMPHIBIOUS
HUMANOID
SEA DEVIL
Perception +9; darkvision, wavesense 30 feet
Languages Aquan; shark commune 150 feet
Skills Athletics +9 (+11 to Swim), Intimidation +5, Stealth
+8, Survival +7
Str +3, Dex +4, Con +1, Int +0, Wis +3, Cha –1
Items longspear, spear
Shark Commune (mental,
telepathy)
The
sea
devil
can
communicate
telepathically with sharks within
range. It can communicate
only simple concepts like
“come,” “guard,” or “attack.”
AC 18; Fort +7, Ref +10, Will +7
HP 30
Speed 25 feet, swim 35 feet
Melee Ȱɵ longspear +11 (reach 10 feet), Damage 1d8+3 piercing
Melee Ȱɵ claw +11 (agile), Damage 1d6+3 slashing
Melee Ȱɵ jaws +11, Damage 1d8+3 piercing
RangedȰɵ spear +12 (thrown 20 feet), Damage 1d6+3 piercing
Blood Frenzy Ȳ˓ (rage) Requirements The sea devil is not fatigued or already in a frenzy.
Trigger The sea devil deals bleed damage to a living creature. Eﬀect The sea devil ﬂies into
a frenzy that lasts 1 minute. While frenzied, the sea devil gains a +1 status bonus to attack
p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19669139
4425296
