p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19668947
4425104
Bestiary
94
DEZULLON VENOM
The dezullon is most well known
for the psychoactive eﬀects of
its secretions. Aﬀected creatures
suﬀer amnesia, brieﬂy forgetting
where they are and why they are
in pain. Some creatures, desperate
to escape the past, willingly
expose themselves to a dezullon’s
amnesia venom in an eﬀort to
make their painful memories fade.
Dezullon
Dezullons are dangerous carnivorous pitcher plants that dwell in forested
regions with thick canopies. They hunt for meat along the forest’s understory
when not sunning themselves in the boughs above. Dezullons are smart enough
to notice that some creatures are attracted by shiny things, and sometimes use
such objects to set up ambushes. To assume that the dezullon’s ambulations are
slow simply because the creature has a root structure is a foolish mistake; many
an adventurer has been crushed to death by this surprisingly agile plant. In
addition, these dangerous plants are expert climbers, making their pursuit even
more difﬁcult to escape from.
A hungry dezullon keeps prey off-balance by spilling its putrid, psychoactive
digestive juices from its central pitcher. In addition to being highly acidic, the
enzymes in a dezullon’s digestive tract, once expelled, inﬂict a victim with powerful
hallucinations and amnesia. This secondary effect makes dezullons highly sought
after in some circles, including avid drug users, experimental doctors, and
criminals who deal in poisons.
Many varieties of dezullon exist, including lumbering giants of
incredible size, those that have tiny, cup-shaped pitchers that
proliferate along lengths of creeping ivy like suckers on a squid’s
tentacles, and others with hundreds of blood-red, razor-sharp
leaves that protrude from the inside of their pitchers like
a leech’s teeth. This latter variety is especially dangerous,
since the leaves can all but eviscerate creatures that become
ensconced inside their pitchers.
DEZULLON
CREATURE 10
N
MEDIUM
PLANT
Perception +18; low-light vision
Skills Acrobatics +21, Athletics +19, Stealth +21 (+24 in forests or swamps)
Str +5, Dex +7, Con +3, Int –4, Wis +2, Cha –1
AC 30; Fort +17, Ref +21, Will +16
HP 130, regeneration 15 (deactivated by ﬁre); Resistances acid 20
Stench (aura, olfactory) 30 feet. A creature entering the emanation must
attempt a DC 27 Fortitude save. On a failure, the creature is sickened 1, and
on a critical failure is also slowed 1. While within the aura, the creature
takes a –2 circumstance penalty to saves to
recover from the sickened condition. A
creature that succeeds at the save is
temporarily immune to this eﬀect for
1 minute.
Speed 25 feet; climb 30 feet
Melee Ȱɵ vine +21 (acid, agile),
Damage 3d6+8 bludgeoning plus
3d6 acid and Grab
Ranged Ȱɵ acid glob +23 (acid, range
30 feet), Damage 4d8 acid plus
amnesia venom
Amnesia Venom (mental, poison); Saving Throw
DC 29 Fortitude; Maximum Duration 6 rounds; Stage
1 ﬂat-footed (1 round); Stage 2 ﬂat-footed and clumsy 1
(1 round); Stage 3 confused, ﬂat-footed, and clumsy 2 (1 round).
Constrict Ȱɵ 2d6+2 bludgeoning
Root Ȱɵ (concentrate) Until the next time it acts, the dezullon
appears to be a normal pitcher plant. It has an
automatic result of 41 (44 in forests or swamps)
on Deception checks and DCs to pass as a
non‑creature plant.
p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19668947
4425104
