p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19668871
4425028
Bestiary
18
BALISSE
CREATURE 8
NG
MEDIUM
ANGEL
CELESTIAL
Perception +18 (+20 to detect lies and illusions); darkvision
Languages Celestial, Draconic, Infernal; tongues
Skills Acrobatics +14, Diplomacy +17, Religion +18
Str +5, Dex +2, Con +4, Int +1, Wis +6, Cha +5
Items +1 striking scimitar
AC 26; Fort +16, Ref +12, Will +18; +1 status to all saves vs. magic
HP 145; Weaknesses evil 10; Resistances ﬁre 15
Confessor’s Aura (aura, divine, enchantment, mental) 20 feet. Creatures in the balisse’s
aura are subject to zone of truth (DC 23). Additionally, if these creatures choose to
honestly express their own conﬂicted feelings, the aura makes it easier for them to
put words to those feelings.
Speed 30 feet, ﬂy 40 feet
Melee Ȱɵ ﬂaming scimitar +20 (ﬁre, forceful, good, magical, sweep), Damage 2d6+8
slashing plus 1d6 ﬁre and 1d6 good
Divine Innate Spells DC 26; 4th divine wrath, heal, paralyze,
remove curse, remove disease; 3rd remove fear (at will) 2nd
invisibility (at will, self only) 1st detect alignment (at will,
evil only)
Divine Rituals DC 26; angelic messenger, atone, geas
Brand of the Impenitent ʚʖ (curse, divine, evocation)
Frequency once per day; Eﬀect The balisse marks
an evil creature within its confessor’s aura as
irredeemable. It can only do so after a failed
attempt to convince the creature to repent. The
touched creature takes a –1 status penalty to AC
and saves, reduces its resistances by 2, and gains
weakness 2 to good damage. The duration depends on
the target’s DC 26 Will save.
Critical Success The creature is unaﬀected.
Success The duration is 1 round.
Failure The duration is 1 day.
Critical Failure The duration is permanent.
Flaming Armament (divine, evocation) Any
weapon gains the eﬀect of a ﬂaming property
rune while a balisse wields it.
Guiding Angel Ȱɵ (divine, transmutation)
While invisible, a balisse can spiritually
attach itself to a non-evil mortal. When it
does so, it merges with the mortal’s body and
is unable to use any of its spells and abilities
other than to interact with the mortal. It must
use Guiding Angel again to leave the mortal. While
merged with the mortal, the balisse can take a form
of its choice that only the mortal can see, such as a
small angel on the mortal’s shoulder. Alternatively, it
can communicate with the mortal using a bodiless
voice only the mortal can hear.
Astral Deva (Emissary Angel)
Astral devas are the elite messengers and
emissaries of the celestial realms, serving
deities and celestial armies by delivering messages,
performing reconnaissance, and providing support for
those in need of aid. They watch over planar
travelers and take powerful mortals under
ANGELIC TREASURE
Many angels wear exquisite
armor or wield beautiful and often
magical weapons. While they are
not hampered by mortal sins like
greed or pride (save for the very
rare and tragic exception), they do
enjoy the beauty of ﬁne clothing,
exquisite jewelry, and works of art.
p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19668871
4425028
