p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19668949
4425106
Bestiary
96
DINOSAURS IN FANTASY
At ﬁrst glance, the inclusion of
dinosaurs in a fantasy setting
might seem strange, but dinosaurs
are an excellent creature to use
in a game that bridges the gap
between familiar real-world
animals and legendary monsters.
If having dinosaurs mix freely with
lions, manticores, and dragons still
seems strange to you, consider
having them dwell in remote,
primeval lands, as suggested in
the sidebars on pages 99–100.
On Golarion, dinosaurs do exist in
the wilder regions of the world,
particularly on the continent of
Garund, though they are common
enough that PCs might ﬁnd some
on display in a menagerie in a
northern city, in use as guardian
creatures, or even kept by druids
as loyal animal companions.
Dinosaur
Remnants from the world’s primeval era, these enormous reptilian animals still
exist in large numbers in isolated and remote wildernesses or far underground
within magical Darklands caverns. Lizardfolk, orcs, giants, and other monstrous
humanoids sometimes use dinosaurs as mounts, guards, or hunting animals.
Humans and other ancestries have also been known to collect dinosaurs, be it
to display them in menageries or keep them as exotic pets or guardians. Such
activities are generally pursuits of the rich or eccentric, but certain druids and
other guardians of nature feel strong kinships with dinosaurs as well and take
them on as companions. When dinosaurs establish themselves in regions beyond
their normal habitats, it is generally the result of these captive creatures escaping
into the wild.
Velociraptor
A smaller cousin of the deinonychus, the velociraptor is a swift, cunning
pack hunter. It has no fear of larger creatures, and a group of these dinosaurs
won’t hesitate to attack creatures the size of a horse. Velociraptors are social
animals, and tend to live in groups of up to a dozen other velociraptors. They
have manes of feathery plumage that extend down their backs and along the
sides of their arms, legs, and tail, while their underbellies and ﬂanks are scaly.
These feathers allow them to blend into their natural terrains with ease, but
when excited, attempting to intimidate, or seeking a mate, a velociraptor can
puff and frill this plumage to expose much brighter colors normally covered
by the longer feathers. A typical velociraptor is 1-1/2
feet tall, 7 feet long, and weighs 35 pounds.
VELOCIRAPTOR
CREATURE 1
N
SMALL
ANIMAL
DINOSAUR
Perception +6; low-light vision, scent
(imprecise) 30 feet
Skills Acrobatics +8, Athletics +5 (+8
jumping), Stealth +6
Str +0, Dex +3, Con +2, Int –4, Wis +1, Cha +1
AC 16; Fort +5, Ref +7, Will +4
HP 20
Speed 40 feet
Melee Ȱɵ jaws +8 (ﬁnesse), Damage 1d6+3 piercing
Melee Ȱɵ talon +8 (agile, ﬁnesse), Damage 1d4+3 slashing
Leaping Charge Ȱɵ The velociraptor Strides up to 10 feet,
ignoring diﬃcult terrain as it leaps over obstacles. It then
makes a Strike with its talons, gaining a +1 circumstance
bonus to its attack roll.
Pack Attack The velociraptor deals 1d4 extra damage
to any creature that’s within reach of at least two of the
velociraptor’s allies.
Deinonychus
Deinonychuses are wily hunters that attack in groups of up to a dozen
individuals, ripping apart their prey with sharp talons and powerful jaws. They
are lean and muscular, and have two powerful legs and a long tail that helps
them maintain balance. Although deinonychuses don’t use their dexterous
clawed forelimbs to attack, the dinosaurs can use them to pull aside
small barriers. Although some of these dinosaurs have scaly skin, most
have thatches of vibrantly colored feathers as well. A deinonychus is
about 6 feet tall and weighs about 150 pounds.
However, larger deinonychuses exist. These creatures—which stand
taller than a human—are called megaraptors.
p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19668949
4425106
