p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19668877
4425034
Bestiary
24
Arboreal
Arboreals are guardians of the forest and representatives of the trees. As long-
lived as the woods they watch over, arboreals consider themselves parents and
shepherds of trees rather than their gardeners. Consequently, while arboreals
tend to be slow and methodical, they are terrifyingly swift when forced to ﬁght
in defense of the woods. Though they rarely seek out the companionship of
short-lived folk—even elves are fugacious in the eyes of arboreals—and have
an inherent distrust of change, arboreals have been known to tolerate those
who seek to learn from their long-winded, rambling monologues, especially
if such pupils also express a desire to protect the timberlands. Against those
who threaten their realm, such as loggers eager to harvest lumber or settlers
aiming to establish croplands or a town, arboreals’ wrath is unwavering and
devastating. Perhaps ironically, arboreals are gifted at tearing down what others
build—a trait that serves vengeful members of their kind well.
Arboreal Warden
Arboreal wardens are the rangers of arboreal society. These itinerant
folk have an innate curiosity about the woodlands in which they
dwell, and rarely stop to take root and rest in the same part of
the forest twice. This wanderlust makes wardens ideal forest
patrollers and scouts. While they are robust combatants, they
know better than to confront dangerous foes on their
own. Instead, they report any dangers to arboreal
regents. In rare cases, large groups of arboreal
wardens congregate to form a copse. Copses travel
beyond the boundaries of a forest to investigate the
hinterlands and gather intelligence on potential threats
before returning to report their ﬁndings. Arboreal
wardens do not pretend to understand to other
creatures’ motives—like most forces of the natural
world, they are ambivalent about mortal affairs that do
not involve their forest.
ARBOREAL WARDEN
 CREATURE 4
NG
LARGE
PLANT
Perception +11; low-light vision
Languages Arboreal, Common, Sylvan
Skills Athletics +13, Stealth +9 (+14 in forests)
Str +5, Dex +1, Con +3, Int +1, Wis +3, Cha +1
Items large bark shield (Hardness  3, Hit Points 20,
BT 10), stone longsword
AC 20 (22 with shield raised); Fort +13, Ref +9,
Will +11
HP 75; Weaknesses axe vulnerability, ﬁre 10;
Resistances bludgeoning 5, piercing 5
Axe Vulnerability An arboreal warden takes 5 additional
damage from axes.
Attack of Opportunity Ǻȓ
Shield Block Ǻȓ
Speed 25 feet
Melee Ȱɵ stone longsword +13 (reach 10 feet),
Damage 1d8+10 bludgeoning
Melee Ȱɵ shield bash +13, Damage 1d6+10
bludgeoning
Shield Push ʚʖ The arboreal warden Strides
and then makes a shield bash Strike. If the
attack hits, the target is pushed 10 feet.
FELLED ARBOREALS
Arboreals have a great respect for
dead members of their species. Their
elaborate burial rituals involve laying
the fallen arboreal down in a mossy
bed in the center of a grove of
saplings. The decomposing arboreal
nourishes the saplings, ensuring the
growth of a new generation of trees.
p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19668877
4425034
