p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19669181
4425338
Bestiary
328
BUILDING
WERECREATURES
The curse of the werecreature
comes in myriad forms and can
aﬀect any humanoid, allowing
you to make a wide variety of
werecreatures for your adventures.
When you need to create a
werecreature for your game, you
can do so in one of two ways. You
can simply build the werecreature
from the ground up, using the
standard rules for monster
creation (this is how the werebear,
wererat, and werewolf presented
on these pages were built). Or you
can use the guidelines presented
under “Creating Werecreatures”
to turn an existing creature (or
even a player character!) into
a werecreature. In either case,
speciﬁc werecreature abilities
like Change Shape, curse of the
werecreature, and moon frenzy
work the same.
Werecreature
Werecreatures are humanoids doomed to transform into animals and animal-
humanoid hybrids under the light of the full moon. These shapechanging creatures
are the result of an ancient primal curse that they can, in turn, transmit through
their own bites. Their ability to lurk unseen in the wilds as well as among people,
combined with the contagiousness of their condition, makes werecreatures a
perennial cause of panicked suspicion.
Afflicted and True Werecreatures
Werecreatures come in two types: those afﬂicted with the curse and those born
with it (“true werecreatures”).
One can be born a true werecreature to any werecreature parent. A true
werecreature is always a werecreature and retains the same memories and most
of the same statistics in all forms. A true werecreature also has full control over its
shapechanging except during the full moon, when the transformation is irresistible.
There is no known way to break the curse on a true werecreature.
Affected werewolves received their curse from the bite of another werecreature
(which could’ve been an afﬂicted or true werecreature). An afﬂicted werecreature
may be unaware of its curse because it retains no memories of its transformations,
gets no beneﬁt from being a werecreature when not transformed, and has no
conscious control over its transformation. An afﬂicted werecreature’s curse can be
removed like any other.
Creating Werecreatures
You can turn an existing, living humanoid into a werecreature by completing the
following steps. (These changes reﬂect a werecreature in its hybrid form.)
Increase the creature’s level by 1 and change its statistics as follows.
•	 It gains the beast and werecreature traits, and its alignment is usually
adjusted to match that of its werecreature type.
•	 Increase its size by one category if the animal is a larger size than the
base humanoid.
•	 Increase its AC, attack bonuses, DCs, saving throws, and skill modiﬁers by 1.
•	 Increase its damage with Strikes and other offensive abilities by 1. If the
werecreature is limited in how often it can use an ability (such as a breath
weapon), increase the damage by 2 instead.
•	 Increase its HP by the amount shown on the table. This HP increase is more
than typical in order to compensate for the creature’s weakness to silver.
•	 The creature gains weakness to silver as shown on the table.
Starting Level
HP Increase
Weakness to Silver
4 or lower
+25
5
5–7
+35
7
8–14
+50
10
15+
+75
15
WERECREATURE AbILITIES
All werecreatures gain the following abilities, some of which match an ability of
the animal the werecreature transforms into. You might also need to adjust some
abilities that conﬂict with the theme of the werecreature (such as abilities with a
conﬂicting alignment trait).
Senses The werecreature gains all the senses of the animal.
Animal Empathy (divination, primal) A werecreature can communicate with animals of
the same general kind.
Claws The werecreature gains a claw Strike (an agile unarmed attack that deals slashing
damage). If it had any agile attacks, the damage dealt by its claws should be roughly
the same as the damage dealt by those attacks. If it had only non-agile attacks, its
claws should deal three-quarters that damage.
p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19669181
4425338
