p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19669029
4425186
Bestiary
176
GIBBERING MOUTHER
TREASURE
While gibbering mouthers have
little interest in treasure, they are
known to consume their prey’s
valuables along with the creatures’
ﬂesh. Those treasures which are
not themselves digestible remain
until the gibbering mouther
disgorges them or is destroyed.
Gibbering Mouther
Amorphous blobs of yammering mouths and oozing, ﬂeshy sludge, gibbering
mouthers are among the strangest creatures found either aboveground or below.
Perpetually ravenous, these aberrations are always seeking their next meals,
ever eating but never sated. With a nominal intelligence, gibbering mouthers
can understand and even speak Aklo, but they do so in an intelligible manner
only rarely. Instead, their innumerable mouths constantly jabber and babble in a
stream of sound that disrupts the thought patterns of other creatures in the area.
Where, how, and why gibbering mouthers originated are questions without answers.
They share certain similarities with the much more powerful shoggoths, leading to
theories that the two creatures share an origin; less charitable scholars have suggested
that the gibbering mouther is instead a mortal’s attempt to create something akin to
a shoggoth—though the question of why remains unanswered. Still others believe
gibbering mouthers were sent to the world by the gods as a punishment for some
forgotten but surely terrible transgression. Gibbering mouthers themselves have little
to say on the matter—at least, not in any sort of sense. Scholars have wasted countless
hours in attempts to make sense of gibbering mouthers’ noises—studies that put
researchers into danger and give results that are contradictory and confusing at best.
Whatever their origin, gibbering mouthers range the entirety of Golarion.
Sightings have been recorded in dungeons below ancient cities and ruins as well
as many regions of the deeper Darklands layers of Sekamina and Orv. They are
somewhat less common in the upper region of Nar-Voth, perhaps due to the
prevalence of settlements that don’t tolerate gibbering mouthers’ presence.
GIBBERING MOUTHER
CREATURE 5
N
MEDIUM
ABERRATION
Perception +15; darkvision
Languages Aklo
Skills Acrobatics +12, Athletics +13
Str +2, Dex +3, Con +4, Int –3, Wis +3, Cha +0
AC 21, All-Around Vision; Fort +15, Ref +12, Will +10
HP 120; Weaknesses bludgeoning 5
Gibbering (auditory, aura, emotion, enchantment, incapacitation, mental, occult) Each
creature that begins its turn within 60 feet of a gibbering mouther must
attempt a DC 19 Will save. On a failure, they are confused for 1 round. On a
success, they are temporarily immune for 1 minute.
All-Around Vision
Reactive Gnaw Ǻȓ Trigger An adjacent creature deals the gibbering mouther
slashing damage. Eﬀect The gibbering mouther’s wound opens into another maw.
It makes a jaws Strike against the triggering creature.
Speed 10 feet, swim 20 feet
Melee Ȱɵ jaws +14 (ﬁnesse), Damage 2d8+5 piercing plus 1d4 persistent
bleed damage and Grab
Ranged Ȱɵ spittle +14 (range 30 feet), Damage 4d6 acid and
burn eyes
Burn Eyes A creature that takes damage from a gibbering mouther’s
spittle must succeed at a DC 22 Fortitude save or be dazzled for
1 round (or blinded for 1 round on a critical failure).
Engulf Ȱɵ DC 22, 3d8 piercing, Escape DC 22, Rupture 8
Ground Manipulation ʚʖ (occult, transmutation) The
gibbering mouther causes stone and earth under
its body to grow soft and muddy, remaining
so for 1 minute after the mouther moves
oﬀ the location. A gibbering mouther
can move through these areas with
ease, but other creatures treat them
as diﬃcult terrain.
GIBBERING MOUTHER
LOCATIONS
Gibbering mouthers tend to
remain underground, favoring
subterranean ruins and the lower
layers of the Darklands.
p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19669029
4425186
