p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19668951
4425108
Bestiary
98
Stegosaurus
The stegosaurus is easily recognized by its twin rows of diamond-shaped dorsal
plates that run down its spine, and thick tail adorned with four large spikes. This
strange conﬁguration protects this herbivore from predators, as the stegosaurus
can hunker down to interpose its dorsal plates between an attacker and its thick
body. A stegosaurus defends itself by swinging its spiked tail at larger foes and
trampling smaller opponents underfoot.
The stegosaurus often inhabits grasslands, where nutritious vegetation is
plentiful and only its dorsal plates rise above waving ﬁelds of tall grass. The
stegosaurus is among the most curious of dinosaurs, and hunters often ﬁnd it easy
to bait them with shiny trinkets or strange noises. A stegosaurus is about 30 feet
long, 16 feet high at the top of its highest dorsal plate, and weighs between 2 and
3 tons.
The stegosaurus is generally more even-tempered and even gentle, despite its
size, than the ankylosaurus. This combination makes it even more popular as
a trained pet or guard, but even then one should take care to not annoy the
dinosaur—an angry or annoyed stegosaurus can lash out with its tail with little
warning. Often, it’s wiser to train smaller variants, such as the kentrosaurus.
Regardless, their dorsal plates make this dinosaur a poor choice as a mount.
STEGOSAURUS
CREATURE 7
N
HUGE
ANIMAL
DINOSAUR
Perception +15; low-light vision, scent (imprecise) 30 feet
Skills Athletics +20
Str +7, Dex +2, Con +4, Int –4, Wis +2, Cha +0
AC 23; Fort +17, Ref +13, Will +13
HP 125
Dorsal Deﬂection Ǻȓ Trigger The stegosaurus is targeted with a
melee attack. Eﬀect The stegosaurus leans its dorsal plates into
the attack, gaining a +2 circumstance bonus to its AC against the
triggering attack. If the attack misses, the stegosaurus Steps
after the attack.
Speed 25 feet
Melee Ȱɵ tail +18 (sweep, reach 15 feet), Damage
2d8+9 piercing
Melee Ȱɵ foot +18 (reach 10 feet), Damage 2d6+9
bludgeoning
Trample ̂ˬ Large or smaller, foot, DC 25
Triceratops
Triceratopses are muscular quadrupeds with powerful but short
legs, thick necks, and heads crowned by a wide, bony frill. Though
they bear a large horn on their snout and one on each brow, these
dinosaurs are herbivores and use these bony protrusions only
to defend themselves from attackers or in dramatic clashes
DINOSAUR GUARDIANS
As with most animals, dinosaurs
can be tamed or domesticated,
but the diﬃculty of this task
increases along with the dinosaur’s
level. Lizardfolk and orcs are fond
of using dinosaurs as beasts of
burden, workhorses, mounts,
or even war beasts. Certain
dinosaurs, such as velociraptors
and deinonychuses, make excellent
trackers as well. The largest and
most dangerous dinosaurs, such as
the tyrannosaurus, are generally
avoided, although more powerful
creatures like giants have been
known to be able to keep them
as pets, guardians, or even brutal
executioners. In certain cities,
dinosaurs are popularly featured
as combatants in blood sports and
other gladiatorial battles.
p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19668951
4425108
