p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19668996
4425153
E-G
143
Introduction
A-C
D
E-G
H-K
L-N
O-R
S-T
U-Z
Appendix
Elananx
These strange, fey felines resemble large, broad bobcats from a distance, but a closer
view reveals something amiss. Their forms ripple and billow with heat, and their
eyes glow from within as if they contain tiny, ﬂickering ﬂames. The pungent scent
of rotting leaves smoldering in a bonﬁre clings to their fur. Yet those who have the
chance to watch elananxes hunt or attack prey witness the greatest indication that
these creatures are something more than mere predators, for they act with cruel and
savvy instincts, reveling in the pain they inﬂict.
Elananxes typically hunt alone, but sometimes these cunning and malicious
hunters of the First World roam in packs called “billows” to take down large prey.
Like many house cats, elananxes are not content to merely track and devour prey,
but prefer to toy with their victims, drawing joy and excitement from the fear and
pain of those they capture. To this end, elananxes rarely use their cinder dispersal
ability to evade their targets, instead opting to foil their quarry just before the end
of the hunt—though, as selﬁsh creatures who wish to live to hunt again, elananxes
often reserve one use of this ability, just in case.
Because of their clever and malicious ways, elananxes are favored as hunting
companions by redcaps (page 278), who go out of their way to befriend or make
deals with these creatures. Redcaps also ﬁnd great sport in hunts where competing
elananxes chase a single creature. Although they’re large enough to serve as mounts
for redcaps, elananxes despise being ridden and resist such attempts—little is as sure
to cause a supposedly friendly elananx to turn on its redcap ally than a foolhardy
attempt to treat the fey cat as a horse!
Elananxes have a strange afﬁnity to forest ﬁres. Because they are immune to
the damage caused by ﬂickering ﬂames, they enjoy capering and caterwauling
through the smoky, burning ruins of forest infernos. Some have even been known
to use their burning bites to deliberately light undergrowth on ﬁre, simply so they
might experience the beauty of the ﬂames combined with the inevitable pain such
disasters inﬂict on other creatures.
ELANANX
CREATURE 6
NE
MEDIUM
FEY
FIRE
Perception +14; darkvision
Languages Sylvan (can’t speak any language)
Skills Acrobatics +14, Athletics +14, Survival +14 (+17 to Track)
Str +4, Dex +4, Con +2, Int –3, Wis+2, Cha –2
AC 24; Fort +12, Ref +16, Will +12
HP 95; Immunities ﬁre; Weaknesses cold iron 5
Cinder Dispersal Ǻȓ (ﬁre, primal, transmutation); Frequency
once per day. Trigger The elananx takes damage from
a hostile source. Eﬀect The elananx disperses into a
cloud of smoke and cinders, ﬁlling its space and a 20-
foot emanation. While in this form, the elananx can’t
be attacked or targeted, and it doesn’t take up space.
Anything inside this cloud is concealed, and any creature
ending its turn there takes 2d6 ﬁre damage. At the start of
its turn, the elananx returns to its normal form in any square
the cloud covered. If the elananx Strikes a creature using its
ﬁrst action after returning to its normal form, the target is ﬂat-
footed and the Strike deals an extra 1d6 ﬁre damage.
Speed 30 feet
Melee Ȱɵ jaws +16 (magical), Damage 2d6+8 piercing and 1d6 ﬁre
Melee Ȱɵ claw +16 (agile), Damage 2d6+8 slashing
Pack Attack The elananx’s Strikes deal an extra 1d6 damage to creatures
within the reach of at least two of its allies.
Pounce Ȱɵ The elananx Strides and makes a Strike at the end of that movement. If
the elananx began this action hidden, it remains hidden until after the attack.
ELANANX LOCATIONS
Although many elananxes dwell
in the strange realm of the First
World, some are also natives of the
Material Plane. Elananxes prefer
to dwell in regions where there
are ample intelligent creatures
to chase, hunt, and eat, and they
favor woodlands and hills as their
primary hunting grounds.
p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19668996
4425153
