p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19669021
4425178
Bestiary
168
THE FIRST GHOULS
Legend holds that the ﬁrst
humanoid (an elf, as it so
happened) to feed upon the ﬂesh
of his brother rose as a ghoul
after death, in time embracing his
new life and ascending to great
power as a demon lord of ghouls,
graves, and secrets kept by the
dead. That ghouls of humanoids
warp and twist to take vaguely
elven features, and that elves
themselves are immune to ghoul
paralysis, are unusual side eﬀects
of this ancient source, yet today,
ghouls are as likely to worship
other vile gods—or simply eschew
faith entirely—as they are to honor
the ﬁrst of their kind.
Ghoul
Few creatures are more ubiquitous to sinister locations such as lonely graveyards
and ruined crypts than the ﬂesh-eating undead known as ghouls.
Creating Ghouls
You can turn a living creature into a ghoul by completing the following steps. When
creating a ghast, double these numerical adjustments. The monsters in this section
are built from the ground up, so their numbers don’t match these guidelines exactly.
Custom-building ghouls is recommended if you have time, using the special abilities
listed here but creating the other statistics to match what you want the ghoul to be.
First, increase the creature’s level by 1 and change its statistics as follows.
•	 Increase its AC, attack bonuses, DCs, saving throws, and skill modiﬁers by 1.
•	 Increase its damage with Strikes and other offensive abilities by 1. If the
creature is limited in how often it can use an ability (such as a breath
weapon), increase the damage by 2 instead.
GHOUL ABILITIES
A ghoul gains the undead and ghoul traits, and it usually becomes evil. If the base
creature has any abilities that come from it being a living creature, it loses them. It
also loses any traits that represented its life as a living creature, such as human and
humanoid. You might also need to adjust abilities that conﬂict with the theme of a
ghoul. All ghouls gain the following abilities. The save DC for all abilities uses the DC
of the ghoul’s level (Core Rulebook 503).
Darkvision
Negative Healing
Immunities death eﬀects, disease, paralyzed, poison, unconscious
Claws If the creature had hands, it gains a claw Strike (an agile
unarmed attack that deals slashing damage plus paralysis). If
it had any agile attacks, the damage dealt by its claws should
be roughly the same as the damage dealt by those attacks. If it
had only non-agile attacks, its claws should deal three-
quarters that damage.
Jaws If the creature had a mouth, it gains a jaws
Strike (an unarmed attack that deals slashing damage
plus ghoul fever and paralysis). The damage amount
should be the same as the creature’s non-agile attacks.
Consume Flesh Ȱɵ (manipulate) Requirements The
ghoul is adjacent to the corpse of a creature that died
within the last hour. Eﬀect The ghoul devours a chunk of
the corpse and regains 1d6 Hit Points plus 1d6 for every 2 levels it has. It
can regain Hit Points from any given corpse only once.
Ghoul Fever (disease) Saving Throw Fortitude; Stage 1 carrier with no ill
eﬀect (1 day); Stage 2 2d6 negative damage and regains half as many Hit Points from
all healing (1 day); Stage 3 as stage 2 (1 day); Stage 4 2d6 negative damage and gains
no beneﬁt from healing (1 day); Stage 5 as stage 4 (1 day); Stage 6 dead, and rises as a
ghoul the next midnight.
Paralysis (incapacitation, occult, necromancy) Any living, non-elf creature hit by a ghoul’s
attack must succeed at a Fortitude save or become paralyzed. It can attempt a new save
at the end of each of its turns, and the DC cumulatively decreases by 1 on each such save.
Swift Leap Ȱɵ (move) The ghoul jumps up to half its Speed. This movement doesn’t
trigger reactions.
GHaST ABILITIES
A ghast has all the abilities above, plus following additions.
Stench (aura, olfactory) 10 feet A creature entering the aura or
starting its turn in the aura must succeed at a Fortitude save
(use a DC based on the monster’s level; Core Rulebook 503)
p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19669021
4425178
