p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19668902
4425059
A-C
49
Introduction
A-C
D
E-G
H-K
L-N
O-R
S-T
U-Z
Appendix
BUNYIP TREASURE
Bunyips have no use for treasure,
and do not actively collect it,
but the ﬂoors of their lairs are
sometimes littered with the
possessions of their humanoid
victims. A bunyip’s teeth can be
collected and sold (most bunyips
have about 50 teeth at any one
time). Alternatively, due to their
elusiveness and fabled nature, a
high-quality taxidermic bunyip
could easily command a high price
from a collector.
Bunyip
Bunyips are dangerous aquatic predators that resemble a cross between a shark
and a seal. Found in freshwater inlets or saltwater coves worldwide, bunyips
hunt where prey is plentiful, often to the consternation of coastal residents
and ﬁsherfolk.
Despite their outlandish appearance and tendency to defend their territory with
loud, bellowing roars that echo for great distances, bunyips are very rarely sighted
by humanoids, leaving many to question their existence. For hundreds of years,
bunyips were widely regarded as nothing more than folk tales, and even now
that their existence as a species has been proven, the existence of any particular
bunyip in a local area is often met with heavy skepticism. While their limited
shapechanging abilities are no doubt a signiﬁcant part of the reason for this air of
mystery, another major factor is that the aquatic creatures rarely hunt humanoids,
preferring to eat smaller animals. Most bunyips avoid human contact, except
when one wanders too close to their den or favorite hunting spot, at which point
the territorial bunyip attacks with swift and terrible ferocity. Many scholars agree
that a large number of unexplained disappearances near coastal areas are the
result of unreported bunyip aggression.
In some ports, bunyips have learned that delicious prizes can be had from the
chum and garbage discarded by ﬁshing boats and merchant vessels. They lurk
close to the shore and carefully choose their victims, plucking them off docks and
small boats. These bunyips are particularly careful to keep their true forms
hidden, but this does little to dull rumors of monster-infested waters.
BUNYIP
CREATURE 3
N
MEDIUM
ANIMAL
AQUATIC
Perception +10; blood scent, darkvision, scent (imprecise) 100 feet
Skills Athletics +11, Stealth +10, Survival +8
Str +4, Dex +3, Con +4, Int –4, Wis +1, Cha –1
Blood Scent The bunyip can smell blood in the water from up to 1 mile away.
AC 19; Fort +9, Ref +12, Will +6
HP 45
Aquatic Opportunity Ǻȓ As Attack of Opportunity, but both the bunyip and the triggering
creature must be in water.
Speed 10 feet, swim 40 feet
Melee Ȱɵ jaws +11, Damage 1d10+4 piercing plus 1d6 persistent bleed
Melee Ȱɵ tail +11 (agile), Damage 1d8+4 bludgeoning
Blood Frenzy Ȳ˓ Requirements The bunyip is not fatigued or already in a
frenzy. Trigger The bunyip deals bleed damage to a living creature. Eﬀect
The bunyip ﬂies into a frenzy that lasts 1 minute. While frenzied, the
bunyip gains a +4 status bonus to damage rolls with its jaws, gains
8 temporary HP that go away at the end of the frenzy, and takes
a –2 penalty to AC.
Roar Ȱɵ (auditory, concentrate, emotion, enchantment, fear,
mental, primal) The bunyip lets out a loud and horrifying roar.
Other creatures within 100 feet must succeed at a DC 21 Will
save or become frightened 2 (frightened 3 on a critical failure,
frightened 1 on a success, or unaﬀected on a critical success).
No matter the result, the creature is temporarily immune to the
eﬀect for 1 minute.
Shift Form Ȱɵ (morph, primal, transmutation) A bunyip can
alter its form slightly to gain an advantage and make it harder
to recognize. When it does, its teeth shrink and its jaws Strike
doesn’t deal the 1d6 persistent bleed damage. It can choose to gain
either a long snake tail, granting its tail Strike reach 10 feet and Grab, or
squat crocodile legs, increasing its land Speed to 20 feet. If it uses Shift Form
again, the bunyip can return to normal or switch between a long tail or crocodile legs.
p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19668902
4425059
