p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19669169
4425326
Bestiary
316
ALICORN
In alchemical and occult circles,
“alicorn” is the word for the
material that makes up a unicorn’s
horn, also used to describe any
object made from that horn. Note
that in many markets, alicorn sales
are illegal, and those who attempt
to sell alicorn are viewed with
repugnance—or worse.
Unicorn
Symbols of grace and purity, unicorns resemble proud and noble horses. They
are typically pure white of coat, but they are best known for the single, delicate
horn that extends from the center of their forehead. While unicorns often serve
as protectors of unspoiled wilderness and sacred places, they are themselves
highly sought after for their horns, which are said to possess potent magical
properties. To many, the mere idea of hunting such a magniﬁcent creature in the
hopes of severing its horn is utterly reprehensible. Indeed, a de-horned unicorn
is a sorry sight, and few such unicorns survive much longer in the wild.
Unicorns are found almost exclusively in remote, unsullied areas of wilderness.
Sometimes associated with good-aligned deities, other times associated with nature
and the fey, unicorns are always known for their righteousness and nobility. They
are wary, at best, of most humanoid creatures, due in large part for poachers’
tendency to hunt them for their horns, but unicorns are often rumored to have
a weakness for those who are pure of both heart and spirit. Despite some tales,
unicorns are equally likely to recognize purity in young men as in young women.
UNICORN
CREATURE 3
CG
LARGE
BEAST
FEY
Perception +13; darkvision, scent (imprecise) 30 feet
Languages Common, Sylvan
Skills Acrobatics +10, Diplomacy +11, Stealth +8, Survival +9
Str +4, Dex +3, Con +3, Int +0, Wis +4, Cha +4
Wild Empathy The unicorn has a connection to the creatures of the natural world that
allows it to communicate with them. The unicorn can use Diplomacy to Make an
Impression on animals and to make very simple Requests of them.
AC 20; Fort +10, Ref +8, Will +11 (+2 vs. mental)
HP 45; Immunities poison
Speed 45 feet
Melee Ȱɵ horn +12 (good, magical), Damage 1d10+4 piercing plus 1d6 good and ghost touch
Melee Ȱɵ hoof +12 (agile, magical), Damage 1d8+4 bludgeoning and ghost touch
Primal Innate Spells DC 21; 5th tree stride; 3rd heal (×2), neutralize
poison; 1st detect alignment (at will, good only); Cantrips (2nd)
light
Ghost Touch A unicorn’s Strikes have the eﬀects of a
ghost touch property rune.
Powerful Charge ʚʖ The unicorn Strides up to
double its Speed in a straight line and then
makes a horn Strike. If the unicorn moved
at least 20 feet, it deals an additional
2d6 damage on a hit.
p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19669169
4425326
