p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19669121
4425278
Bestiary
268
ANCIENT IMMORTALS
Among the numerous types
of immortals that dwell in the
Great Beyond, the proteans
are surely some of the oldest.
They’ve waged war against the
inevitable aeons from the advent
of their ﬁrst creation, and speak
longingly of that time before the
gods themselves imposed order
upon reality.
HP 120, fast healing 2; Weaknesses lawful 5; Resistances precision 5, protean
anatomy 10
Protean Anatomy (divine, transmutation) As voidworm.
Speed 25 feet, ﬂy 30 feet, swim 25 feet; freedom of movement
Melee Ȱɵ jaws +18 (chaotic, magical, reach 10 feet), Damage 2d10+8 piercing plus 1d6 chaotic
Melee Ȱɵ tail +18 (chaotic, magical, reach 15 feet), Damage 2d8+8 bludgeoning plus 1d6
chaotic and Grab
Melee Ȱɵ tentacle +18 (agile, chaotic, magical, reach 10 feet), Damage 2d8+6 piercing
plus 1d6 chaotic and confounding slam
Divine Innate Spells DC 26, attack +16; 5th dimension door; 4th acid arrow, solid fog; 3rd
shatter(at will); 2nd obscuring mist (at will); 1st detect alignment (at will; lawful only);
Constant (4th) freedom of movement
Adaptive Strike Ȳ˓ (divine, polymorph, transmutation) The naunet chooses adamantine,
cold iron, or silver; its melee Strikes count as that type for 1 minute or until it uses
Adaptive Strike again.
Change Shape Ȱɵ (concentration, divine, polymorph, transmutation) The naunet can
take the appearance of any Small, Medium, or Large animal, beast, or humanoid. This
doesn’t change its Speed or its attack and damage bonuses with its Strikes but might
change the damage type its Strikes deal.
Confounding Slam (divine, emotion, enchantment, mental) A creature hit by the naunet’s
tentacle Strike is stupeﬁed 2 for 1d4 rounds (DC 24 Will negates). If the creature
was already stupeﬁed in this way, the duration extends by 1 round instead. A chaotic
creature is only stupeﬁed 1 instead.
Constrict Ȱɵ 1d8+8 bludgeoning, DC 26
Keketar
The ruling caste of the proteans, keketars orchestrate attacks against the bastions
of law and adjudicate protean disputes conﬁdently and capriciously. A keketar
resembles a shimmering, serpentine creature with spines, claws, and
a dragon-like head. A keketar’s actual appearance is in constant
ﬂux, but they generally stay about 18 feet long with a
weight of around 1,500 pounds. While their physical
forms can vary, two things remain constant: First,
a keketar’s eyes are always a piercing shade of
amber or violet. Second, the keketar’s mark of
ofﬁce—a crown of shifting symbols that hovers
above its head—never changes. A keketar cannot
remove its crown but can suppress it, although most
are loath to do so and consider such an act one of
cowardice or shame.
Keketars ﬁll a role in protean society of a
sort of priesthood, operating as intermediaries
between the other proteans and the Speakers of
the Depths. All other proteans defer to keketars,
treating them in a way similar to how citizens
of a mortal city would treat respected nobles;
even more powerful proteans defer to the will
of the keketars. As with many religions, dogma and
theology are prone to interpretation and change, and
among the proteans the situation is perhaps even
more pronounced. Whatever the nature of and
desires held by the mysterious Speakers of
the Depths, individual keketars may come
to dramatically different conclusions as to
their will and intent. To the proteans,
though, this inherent dissonance is
a strength rather than a weakness.
p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19669121
4425278
