p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19669076
4425233
L-N
223
Introduction
A-C
D
E-G
H-K
L-N
O-R
S-T
U-Z
Appendix
ASSOCIATED MONSTERS
Undead minions are very common
companions for a lich or demilich.
Liches prefer mindless undead,
that do what they’re told and don’t
interrupt the lich’s studies with
useless conversation. Liches with
a knack for crafting are also fond
of surrounding themselves with
construct servitors and guardians,
such as golems.
the demilich’s remains, touches its treasure, or casts a spell that would aﬀect the
demilich. Eﬀect The demilich ends torpor, rolls initiative, and gains the eﬀect of its
contingency’s companion spell. The contingency resets after 24 hours.
Countermeasures Ȳ˓ Trigger The demilich’s turn begins. Eﬀect The demilich casts blink,
ﬂy, spell turning, or true seeing on itself. It usually chooses spell turning unless it
already has that spell in eﬀect.
Speed ﬂy 30 feet
Melee Ȱɵ jaws +27 (reach 0 feet, ﬁnesse, magical), Damage 1d4–3 piercing plus 6d6 negative
Arcane Innate Spells DC 40, attack +30; 9th wail of the banshee; 7th spell turning (at
will); 4th blink (at will), dimension door (at will), telekinetic maneuver (at will); Cantrips
(8th) mage hand, telekinetic projectile; Constant (6th) true seeing
Demilich Eye Gems (arcane) A demilich has gemstone eyes that glow when the demilich
is active. Each eye contains an 8th-level spell that targets one creature (usually one
eye has maze and the other polar ray). The demilich can Activate an eye. This uses
the number of spellcasting actions the spell requires, and also requires command and
envision components. When the demilich casts a spell from a gemstone eye, that
eye stops glowing for 1d4 rounds, during which time that eye’s spell can’t be used.
Occasionally, one or both of the two demilich eye gems can be harvested from a
destroyed demilich as magic items (see below).
Devour Soul Ȱɵ (arcane, necromancy, negative) Requirements A soul has been trapped
in one of the demilich’s blight quartz gems (see Trap Soul) for 24 hours. Eﬀect The
demilich consumes the soul. The soul is utterly destroyed, and the demilich regains
HP equal to double the creature’s level.
Mental Magic A demilich can replace all material and somatic components for casting
spells with verbal components, and can replace all Interact components for activating
magic items with envision components.
Staﬀ Gems A demilich long ago absorbed the spells from a staﬀ into gemstone nodules
embedded in its skull, with larger nodules representing higher-level spells. It can cast
any of the spells as though it were Activating the staﬀ, and regains 1 charge per
4 hours spent in torpor, to a maximum of 8 charges. A typical demilich has the
spells from a greater staﬀ of necromancy, but it could have spells from
another staﬀ of 8th level or lower instead.
Trap Soul Ȱɵ command Frequency once per day per gem; Eﬀect Ten
blight quartz gemstones on the demilich’s skull can trap the
souls of the living. The Activated gem casts bind soul. This bind
soul can target and aﬀect a dying creature instead of a corpse.
The dying creature can attempt a DC 38 Fortitude save; if
it succeeds, it doesn’t die and its soul is not trapped but it’s
enervated 2 (or is unaﬀected entirely on a critical success).
When the soul of a creature gets trapped, the creature’s body
swiftly turns to dust.
The gemstones work like the black sapphires used in
bind soul, except that they can hold creatures of up to
17th level and have a value of 200 gp apiece. The demilich
can Devour a Soul it has trapped.
DEMILICH EYE GEM
ITEM 15
RARE
 ARCANE
Price 3,000 gp (can’t be crafted)
Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk —
This glowing gem is harvested from a demilich and has an 8th-level spell
magically bonded to it. This item has the traits of the spell it contains.
Activate command, Interact Frequency once per day; Eﬀect The gem casts
the 8th-level spell it contains. This activation uses the same number of actions
as Casting the Spell. Once the spell is cast, the gem’s glow fades, but returns 24
hours later, when the spell can be used once again.
Craft Requirements Demilich eye gems can’t be crafted.
p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19669076
4425233
