p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19669145
4425302
Bestiary
292
ANCIENT GUARDIANS
The practice of conjuring and
binding shining children to
serve as guardians of important
locations was a popular one in
Thassilon. Even today, thousands
of years after this empire’s fall,
adventurers can still encounter
shining children in ancient ruins,
guarding treasures and forgotten
lore from the distant past.
Shining Child
Shining children are wicked, enigmatic monsters that roam remote planes
and untraveled corners of the universe in search of esoteric lore. With their
abnormally gaunt frames, long white hair, and unnerving, four-ﬁngered hands,
shining children are both strangely familiar and otherworldly in appearance,
though they are barely visible within the shroud of blinding light they
continually emit. Their faces are truly horrible, however, as their overlarge
eyes and distended, gaping mouths reveal their heads to be voids ﬁlled with
unnatural light. Shining children use this light as a weapon, weaving illusions
and focusing beams of ﬁery brilliance.
Because of their reputation as scholars of the alien and the eldritch, shining
children are sometimes summoned by powerful wizards or occultists in search
of rare knowledge. The creatures never give away their lore without some price,
though, and typically demand in return the performance of contemptible deeds
that further their inscrutable, far-ranging plans.
These mysterious beings are natives of the Astral Plane. In that
vast plane, accretions of metaphysical matter gradually accumulate
and eventually coalesce into demiplanes. During this tumultuous
process, sparks of living light sometimes shear off the newly formed
planes, and these sparks of raw planar energy somehow transform
into shining children. Every newly formed demiplane leaves a different
mental imprint on its shining “offspring,” making it easy
for shining children to telepathically recognize their
brothers and sisters. Forever trapped in apparently
adolescent bodies, shining children dedicate themselves
to scholarship and violence with equal measure in a
futile effort to understand their roles in the multiverse
and the burning injustice of their births.
Shining children confuse most other creatures with
their refusal to use individual names in favor of alternating
between referring to each other singularly and collectively.
SHINING CHILD
CREATURE 12
CE
MEDIUM
ASTRAL
Perception +23; darkvision
Languages Aklo; telepathy 120 feet
Skills Arcana +18, Deception +23, Diplomacy +21, Intimidation +21, Occultism +18
Str +2, Dex +5, Con +6, Int +2, Wis +5, Cha +7
Radiance Dependence The shining child is ﬂat-footed while in areas of darkness.
AC 33; Fort +22, Ref +19, Will +19
HP 215; Immunities blinded, dazzled, ﬁre
Blinding Aura (arcane, aura, incapacitation, light) 60 feet. The shining child
sheds bright light. Any creature that starts its turn in the aura must succeed at
a Fortitude DC 29 save. If it fails, it is blinded for 1 minute, and if it critically fails,
it’s permanently blinded. A creature that succeeds at its save is temporarily immune
to this eﬀect for 24 hours.
Overwhelming Light Ǻȓ (light) Trigger The shining child enters an area of magical
darkness or begins its turn in an area of magical darkness. Eﬀect The shining child
attempts to counteract the magical darkness (as a 7th-level spell).
Speed 30 feet, ﬂy 50 feet
Melee Ȱɵ ﬁst +25 (agile, ﬁnesse, magical), Damage 3d4+5 bludgeoning plus 4d6 ﬁre and
2d4 persistent ﬁre
Melee Ȱɵ ﬁre ray +25 (arcane, evocation, magical, range 100 feet), Damage 3d10+3 ﬁre,
plus 2d10 positive damage if the target is undead
Occult Innate Spells DC 33; 7th spell turning, sunburst; 6th dispel magic, vibrant pattern,
wall of force; 5th dimension door, false vision, hallucinatory terrain; 4th dimension
door (at will; self only); 2nd illusory object (at will); Cantrips (6th) light
p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19669145
4425302
