p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19669094
4425251
L-N
241
Introduction
A-C
D
E-G
H-K
L-N
O-R
S-T
U-Z
Appendix
ASSOCIATED MONSTERS
A mummy pharaoh often
commands lesser undead,
typically mummy guardians and
whatever other nearby creatures
of its old kingdom it can bully
into subservience.
memories, a mummy pharaoh is the result of a deliberate embrace of undeath by
a sadistic and cruel ruler. The transformation from life to undeath is no less awful
and painful, but as the transition is an intentional bid to escape death by a powerful
personality who fully embraces the blasphemous repercussions of the choice, the
mummy pharaoh retains its memories and personality intact. Although in most
cases a mummy pharaoh is formed from a particularly depraved ruler instructing
their priests to perform complex rituals that grant the ruler eternal unlife, a ruler
who was ﬁlled with incredible anger in life might spontaneously arise from death as
a mummy pharaoh without undergoing this ritual. Depending on the nature of the
ruler, a mummy pharaoh might have spellcasting or other class features instead of its
Attack of Opportunity and disruptive abilities—the exact nature of the abilities the
ruler had in life can signiﬁcantly change or strengthen the mummy pharaoh presented
here (which represents the least powerful variety of this deadly undead foe).
MUMMY PHARAOH
CREATURE 9
RARE
LE
MEDIUM
MUMMY
UNDEAD
Perception +20; darkvision
Languages Necril, plus any two ancient languages
Skills Deception +18, Intimidation +20, Occultism +15,
Religion +20, Stealth +13
Str +5, Dex +2, Con +4, Int +0, Wis +5, Cha +5
Items +1 striking longspear
AC 27; Fort +19, Ref +15, Will +20; +1 status to all saves vs. positive
HP 165, negative healing; Immunities death eﬀects, disease, paralyzed, poison,
unconscious; Weaknesses ﬁre 10
Great Despair (aura, divine, emotion, enchantment, fear, incapacitation,
mental) 30 feet. As the mummy guardian’s despair, except the DC is
26 and the paralysis lasts 1d4 rounds.
Rejuvenation (divine, necromancy) When a mummy pharaoh is destroyed,
necromantic energies rebuild its body in its tomb over 1d10 days. If the
re‑forming body is destroyed during that time, the process starts anew. A slain
mummy pharaoh can be destroyed for good with a consecrate ritual.
Undead Mastery (aura, divine, necromancy) 100 feet. Commanded or allied undead in
the aura that have a lower level than the mummy pharaoh gain a +1 circumstance
bonus to attack rolls, damage rolls, AC, saves, and skill checks.
Attack of Opportunity Ǻȓ The mummy pharaoh can use Attack of Opportunity when
a creature within its reach uses a concentrate action, in addition to its normal
trigger. It can disrupt triggering concentrate actions, and it disrupts actions on
any hit, not just a critical hit.
Speed 20 feet
Melee Ȱɵ ﬁst +20 (agile), Damage 1d10+11 bludgeoning plus insidious
mummy rot
Melee Ȱɵ longspear +21 (magical, reach 10 feet), Damage 2d8+11 piercing
plus insidious mummy rot
Channel Rot (divine, necromancy) The mummy pharaoh can deliver insidious
mummy rot through melee weapons it wields.
Insidious Mummy Rot (curse, disease, divine, necromancy); This disease and
any damage from it can’t be healed until this curse is removed. A creature
killed by insidious mummy rot turns to sand and can’t be resurrected
except by a 7th-level resurrect ritual or similar magic. Saving Throw
DC 26 Fortitude; Stage 1 carrier with no ill eﬀect (1 minute); Stage 2 8d6
negative damage and stupeﬁed 2 (1 day)
Sandstorm Wrath ʚʖ (concentrate, divine, evocation, ﬁre) The mummy
pharaoh exhales a 60-foot cone of superheated sand that deals
5d6 ﬁre and 5d6 slashing damage (DC 28 basic Reﬂex save).
The mummy pharaoh can’t use Sandstorm Wrath again for
1d4 rounds.
p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19669094
4425251
