p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19669199
4425356
Bestiary
346
can survive the basic environmental eﬀects of planes in the
Outer Sphere.
Changeling These humanoids are the children of hags
and members of other humanoid ancestries.
Cold Eﬀects with this trait deal cold damage. Creatures with
this trait have a magical connection to cold.
Construct A construct is an artiﬁcial creature empowered
by a force other than necromancy. Constructs are often
mindless; they are immune to bleed damage, death eﬀects,
disease, healing, necromancy, nonlethal attacks, poison,
and the doomed, drained, fatigued, paralyzed, sickened, and
unconscious conditions; and they may have Hardness based
on the materials used to construct their bodies. Constructs
are not living creatures, nor are they undead. When reduced
to 0 Hit Points, a construct creature is destroyed.
Daemon A family of ﬁends spawned on the desolate plane
of Abaddon, most daemons are neutral evil. They typically
have darkvision and weakness to good damage.
Demon A family of ﬁends hailing from the Abyss, most demons
are chaotic evil. Most demons have darkvision.
Dero This family of humanoids are the descendants of fey
creatures that fell into darkness and confusion after being
abandoned in the Darklands. They are immune to confusion
and vulnerable to sunlight.
Devil A family of ﬁends from Hell, most devils are lawful evil.
They typically have greater darkvision, immunity to ﬁre,
and telepathy.
Dhampir These humanoids are the immortal oﬀspring
of vampires and members of other ancestries.
Dinosaur These reptiles have survived from prehistoric times.
Dragon Dragons are reptilian creatures, often winged or with
the power of ﬂight. Most are able to use a breath weapon
and are immune to sleep and the paralyzed condition.
Drow Subterranean kin of the elves, drow typically have
darkvision and inborn magical abilities.
Duergar Subterranean kin of the dwarves, duergars typically
have darkvision and immunity to poison. They are not easily
fooled by illusions.
Earth Eﬀects with the earth trait either manipulate or conjure
earth. Those that manipulate earth have no eﬀect in an area
without earth. Creatures with this trait consist primarily of
earth or have a magical connection to that element.
Electricity Eﬀects with this trait deal electricity damage.
A creature with this trait has a magical connection
to electricity.
Elemental Elementals are creatures directly tied to an element
and are native to the Elemental Planes. Elementals don’t
need to breathe.
Elf A creature with this trait is a member of the elf ancestry.
Elves are mysterious people with rich traditions of magic
and scholarship who typically have low-light vision. An
ability with this trait can be used or selected only by elves.
A weapon with this trait is created and used by elves.
Ethereal Ethereal creatures are natives of the Ethereal Plane.
They can survive the basic environmental eﬀects of the
Ethereal Plane.
Fey Creatures of the First World are called the fey.
Fiend Creatures that hail from or have a strong connection to the
evil-aligned planes are called ﬁends. Fiends can survive the
basic environmental eﬀects of planes in the Outer Sphere.
Fire Eﬀects with the ﬁre trait deal ﬁre damage or either
conjure or manipulate ﬁre. Those that manipulate ﬁre have
no eﬀect in an area without ﬁre. Creatures with this trait are
primarily constituted of ﬁre or have a magical connection to
that element.
Fungus Fungal creatures have the fungus trait. They are
distinct from normal fungi.
Genie The diverse families of genies hold positions of
prominence on the Elemental Planes. They have powerful
magical abilities.
Ghost Lost souls that haunt the world as incorporeal undead
are called ghosts.
Ghoul Ghouls are vile undead creatures that feast on ﬂesh.
Giant Giants are massive humanoid creatures.
Gnoll Gnolls are humanoids that resemble hyenas.
Goblin A creature with this trait can come from multiple
groups of creatures, including goblins, hobgoblins, and
bugbears. Goblins tend to have darkvision. An ability with
this trait can be used or chosen only by goblins. A weapon
with this trait is created and used by goblins.
Golem Golems are a special type of construct. Golems are
immune to almost all magic, but most have a weakness to
certain spells.
Gremlin Cruel and mischievous fey, gremlins have acclimated
to life on the Material Plane.
Hag These creatures are malevolent spellcasters who form covens.
Halﬂing A creature with this trait is a member of the halﬂing
ancestry. These small people are friendly wanderers
considered to be lucky. An ability with this trait can be used
or selected only by halﬂings. A weapon with this trait is
created and used by halﬂings.
Human A creature with this trait is a member of the human
ancestry. Humans are a diverse array of people known for
their adaptability. An ability with this trait can be used or
selected only by humans.
Humanoid Humanoid creatures reason and act much like
humans. They typically stand upright and have two arms
and two legs.
Incorporeal An incorporeal creature or object has no physical
form. It can pass through solid objects, including walls. When
inside an object, an incorporeal creature can’t perceive,
attack, or interact with anything outside the object, and
if it starts its turn in an object, it is slowed 1. Corporeal
creatures can pass through an incorporeal creature, but
they can’t end their movement in its space.
An incorporeal creature can’t attempt Strength-based
checks against physical creatures or objects—only against
incorporeal ones—unless those objects have the ghost touch
property rune. Likewise, a corporeal creature can’t attempt
Strength-based checks against incorporeal creatures
or objects.
Incorporeal creatures usually have immunity to eﬀects
or conditions that require a physical body, like disease,
poison, and precision damage. They usually have resistance
p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19669199
4425356
