p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19669132
4425289
O-R
279
Introduction
A-C
D
E-G
H-K
L-N
O-R
S-T
U-Z
Appendix
EATING REEFCLAWS
Reefclaws amass no treasure,
but their meat—if kept fresh—can
be sold in the right markets.
However, in an increasing number
of places, the practice of eating
reefclaws has fallen out of favor—
which means, of course, that
the reefclaw market has simply
shifted to black-market butchers,
where all manner of meat
gathered from dubious sources
is available for purchase, and the
value has increased accordingly.
Reefclaw
Reefclaws are aquatic monsters that resemble huge shrimp or lobsters. As
one might expect from its name, a reefclaw’s oversized claws are powerful
weapons with their vicelike grip and the ability to inject potent venom into
unfortunate prey.
While reefclaws can’t speak, they are intelligent enough to understand the local
language of humanoids near their hunting grounds. The creatures sometimes
listen to conversations, either to gain intelligence on the best place to ambush
aquatic or land-dwelling prey, or merely for entertainment value—reefclaws are
particularly fond of listening to people with high-pitched voices. Reefclaws are
usually solitary hunters, but small swarms of female reefclaws have been known
to gather around a single male for mating purposes or together for the communal
raising of their broods. In the latter case, the females will perform widespread
hunts in order to bring back a large enough bounty to feed their young. Such
hunting parties are extremely dangerous—they’ve been known to tip over small
ﬁshing boats and attack those who fall overboard.
Once a reefclaw has decided upon a course of action, it follows through even
if doing so spells its own end. More than one reefclaw survivor has said that the
creature released its bone-crushing grasp only after its brains were leaking from
its broken skull, and even then the reefclaw was able to perform a terrible last
slash as part of its dying breath. During mating season, female reefclaws are often
a little more pragmatic and release their prey before endangering themselves and
their offspring.
Despite their intelligence and the accompanying moral quandaries, reefclaws
frequently ﬁnd their way onto the dinner plates of
land-dwelling hunters such as humans and hobgoblins.
According to those who have a taste for reefclaw ﬂesh,
the meat is either delectably sweet (for reefclaws
raised in colder waters) or slightly tangy (in the case
of warm-water reefclaws). Most civilized people
who know of reefclaws’ intellect ﬁnd the act of
eating them distasteful, but this does not dissuade
unscrupulous nobles in coastal regions, for whom
reefclaw meat is a delicacy well worth the expense.
Likewise, ﬁsherfolk whose focus is on the bottom
line of their ledgers are more than willing to hunt
the dangerous creatures—or, even better, hire out the
task to naive adventurers.
REEFCLAW
CREATURE 1
CN
SMALL
ABERRATION
AQUATIC
Perception +8; darkvision
Languages Common (can’t speak any language)
Skills Acrobatics +7, Athletics +4 (+8 to Swim)
Str +1, Dex +4, Con +2, Int –3, Wis +1, Cha +1
AC 20; Fort +7, Ref +9, Will +4
HP 17
Death Frenzy Ǻȓ Trigger The reefclaw
is reduced to 0 Hit Points. Eﬀect The
reefclaw makes a claw Strike before dying.
Speed 5 feet, swim 30 feet
Melee Ȱɵ claw +9 (ﬁnesse), Damage 1d6+1 slashing plus
reefclaw venom and Grab
Constrict Ȱɵ 1d6 bludgeoning, DC 17
Reefclaw Venom (poison) Saving Throw DC 17 Fortitude;
Maximum Duration 4 rounds; Stage 1 1d6 poison damage and enfeebled 1
(1 round), Stage 2 1d6 poison damage and enfeebled 2 (1 round).
p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19669132
4425289
