p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19669105
4425262
Bestiary
252
OGRE TREASURE
Ogre warrens are hideous abattoirs
strewn with severed limbs,
oﬀal, and dubious stews. Ogres
sometimes keep shiny baubles,
like jewelry, and they appreciate
intimidating weapons and armor,
especially those that are large
enough for them to use.
Ogre
Ogres embody brutish, amoral violence and cruelty. Standing 10 feet tall and
densely muscled, ogres are as strong as they are cruel. Ogres are sadists that
enjoy remorseless murder, torture, degradation, and mutilation in all of its
forms. Although they prefer to vent their violent urges on smaller humanoids—
the smaller and more beautiful, the better—ogres promise a horrifying fate for
anyone unlucky enough to fall within their meaty grasp. But for all their creativity
in developing methods of violence, ogres often remain too dim-witted to realize
that their playthings lack an ogre’s robust fortitude and high pain tolerance, so
most captives die far sooner than the ogres might prefer. Such a fate is perhaps
preferable however, as those who survive too long as ogres’ playthings suffer
lasting mental scars from the horrifying abuse. A captive able to keep their wits
can sometimes trick the brutes by promising treasure, meatier captives, or other
crude amusements, taking advantage of an ogre’s limited intellect to engineer
opportunities to escape.
Ogres are social creatures only in the most debased sense. They gather together
in groups called families, though members are not always related by blood. Ogres
practice incest regularly, believing that it makes for stronger familial bonds, and
most ogres are misshapen or mutated from generations of inbreeding. The most
powerful ogre in any family is the “boss”—usually the family’s patriarch or
matriarch—while other ogres in the family learn to obey or risk being
brutalized by the boss’s loyal kin. Ogres lair in caves, crumbling ruins,
or dilapidated shacks close enough to humanoid settlements or animal
trails to make raiding easy. These lairs are ﬁlthy and frequently
contain all-too-recognizable evidence of their depravity.
Ogre Warrior
The simplest of ogres are slabs of muscle with hatefully beady
eyes, misshapen visages, and malformed bodies. Always eager
for mayhem and murder, ogre warriors are quick to turn on
their kin when there’s a shortage of smaller folk to torment,
so those who lead ogres do their best to keep them constantly
distracted with new opportunities for raids and ruin.
OGRE WARRIOR
CREATURE 3
CE
LARGE
GIANT
HUMANOID
Perception +5; darkvision
Languages Jotun
Skills Athletics +12, Intimidate +9
Str +5, Dex –1, Con +4, Int –2, Wis +0, Cha –2
Items hide armor, javelins (6), ogre hook
AC 17; Fort +11, Ref +6, Will +5
HP 50
Speed 25 feet
Melee Ȱɵ ogre hook +12 (deadly 1d10, reach
10 feet, trip), Damage 1d10+7 piercing
Ranged Ȱɵ javelin +6 (thrown 30 feet),
Damage 1d6+7 piercing
Ogre Glutton
Ogre gluttons take the act of feeding to
a horriﬁc extreme, capable of extending their already cavernous
mouths wide enough to gulp down a halﬂing. Stories of ogre
gluttons being tricked into eating razor‑edged shields or barrels
ﬁlled with poisoned meat are common, but such tales are of
little consolation to those who have been gobbled down whole
by these ravenous giants. In addition to their sadistic table
p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19669105
4425262
