p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19669154
4425311
S-T
301
Introduction
A-C
D
E-G
H-K
L-N
O-R
S-T
U-Z
Appendix
SLURK RIDING
A willing or broken slurk can be
used as a mount by a creature at
least one size smaller than the
slurk. A slurk’s back slime grants
its rider a +2 circumstance bonus
against any attempts to physically
dismount the rider.
Slurk
The slurk is a sticky, tusked frog-beast found in underground lairs and caves. It
has two massive tusks, which it uses to gore prey and tangle with rival slurks.
With the slurk’s natural ability to climb walls and cling effortlessly to ceilings, it
can be easy for unwary cave explorers to end up on the wrong end of the beast’s
formidable ivory tusks.
Slurks exude two very different types of foul-smelling secretions from their
pale white skin. Large pustules on the slurk’s back drip a sticky resin-like slime
that quickly hardens upon exposure to air. By ﬂexing its skin, the slurk can
burst these pustules in the direction of intruders, covering its foes in sticky
goo and severely limiting their ability to withstand the monster’s other attacks,
including the effects of its other secretion. Glands along the slurk’s ventral side
excrete an incredibly slippery and fetid grease, which protects the slurk from
the immobilizing effects of its own back slime but also has the added beneﬁt of
making it extremely difﬁcult to grapple and capture. The best way to discover
if a slurk is in the vicinity is to look for hard clumps of such grease, which
accumulate and dry in cave corners and amid rock piles where the slurk rests
between meals.
Slurks are thought to be descendants of a failed dwarven attempt to domesticate
and breed large subterranean frogs as food and labor animals. Despite this
apparent failure, slurks are often befriended by others who live underground.
The sticky frog-beasts have proven extremely desirable to kobolds, who now
domesticate and train slurks as powerful mounts and guardians. While other
creatures, particularly boggards, sometimes train slurks to serve as guardians,
kobolds remain those who use these creatures the most. A kobold mounted on
a slurk will often hide in the upper ledges of a cave, using the advantages of
height and surprise to harry foes with ranged attacks. Kobold riders also take
advantage of the slurk’s ability to climb, and charge at their enemies from the
walls of a cavern.
SLURK
CREATURE 2
N
MEDIUM
ANIMAL
Perception +6; darkvision
Languages Draconic (can’t speak any language)
Skills Acrobatics +6 (+8 to Escape), Athletics +8, Stealth +5
Str +4, Dex +2, Con +4, Int –4, Wis +0, Cha +0
AC 17; Fort +10 (+12 vs. Grapple or Shove), Ref +6, Will +4
HP 35
Speed 30 feet, climb 30 feet
Melee Ȱɵ tusks +11 (deadly 1d10), Damage 1d8+4 piercing
Ranged Ȱɵ slime squirt +9 (range increment 30 feet), Eﬀect
entangling slime
Belly Grease ̂ˬ The slurk extrudes a slippery grease
from its ventral glands to coat the ﬂoor under it
and in a 5-foot emanation, turning the aﬀected
area into uneven ground for 10 minutes, after
which it dries to a putrid crust. The
DC to Balance across the slime is 18.
Entangling Slime A creature struck
by a slurk’s slime squirt becomes
clumsy 1 and takes a –5-foot penalty
to Speed for 1 hour or until the slime is
removed. The slime can be removed with
a total of three Interact actions by the
entangled creature or creatures adjacent to
the creature. These actions don’t need to be
consecutive or made by the same creature.
p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19669154
4425311
