p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19669157
4425314
Bestiary
304
INNATE SPELLS
A soulbound doll’s additional
3rd-level innate spell depends on
its alignment, as listed below.
Lawful Good: zone of truth
Neutral Good: heroism
Chaotic Good: heal
Lawful Neutral: nondetection
Neutral: wall of thorns
Chaotic Neutral: grease
Lawful Evil: chilling darkness
Neutral Evil: harm
Chaotic Evil: vampiric touch
Soulbound Doll
Soulbound dolls are eerie mannequins or playthings that have been imbued with a
small piece of a deceased mortal’s soul. These little constructs are created for a variety
of reasons—such as to serve as companions or servants—but their free will means
their obedience to their creators is hardly a given. Followers of Pharasma generally
abhor soulbound dolls, viewing them as a perversion of the natural cycle of souls,
and those who worship the Lady of Graves see the destruction of a soulbound doll,
regardless of the construct’s alignment, as an important service to the Great Beyond.
Soulbound dolls are the simplest in a series of soulbound constructs including
human-sized soulbound mannequins, powerful soulbound shells, and sentinel
soulbound terra-cotta warriors. Creating them from unwilling living creatures
is evil, and an unwilling donor can resist the process with a successful Will save
against the creator’s Craft DC, ruining the doll if not preventing the donor’s
death. A non-evil doll can only be crafted from the soul of a person who has given
consent to such use before their death occurred.
Soulbound dolls encountered by adventurers are typically guardians of some
sort; despite their diminutive size, the soul fragment’s power makes the doll’s
ﬁst more dangerous than a casual observer would expect. Further, it grants the
doll a single spell of outsized power given its stature. Because of their autonomy
and remarkable intelligence, soulbound dolls are occasionally employed by their
crafters as administrators over much more powerful but mindless constructs such
as golems, allowing such dolls to control defenses far beyond their own capabilities.
Though soulbound dolls contain a small fragment of a soul extracted
during or shortly after a person’s death, this doesn’t affect the deceased’s
resurrection or progress to the afterlife. This extraction process is lethal
to otherwise-living prospective soul donors, though there are rumors of
more expensive processes that allows someone to donate a fragment
of a living soul without repercussions.
The soul fragment resides in a soul focus gem (Hardness 10) typically
embedded in the doll’s neck or chest. The soul fragment isn’t static, and
the doll continues to learn from its initial state, meaning its personality
and abilities can change, possibly growing closer to the donor’s or
moving farther aﬁeld on its own individual path. The soulbound doll’s
focus gem retains the doll’s memories even after the doll’s destruction.
The the intact soul focus gem of a destroyed doll can even be placed
into a new doll body by someone knowledgeable in the creation of
soulbound creatures, effectively reconstituting the soulbound doll.
SOULBOUND DOLL
CREATURE 2
ANY
TINY
CONSTRUCT
SOULBOUND
Perception +8; darkvision
Languages one spoken by its creator (typically Common)
Skills Acrobatics +8, Occultism +4, Stealth +8
Str –2, Dex +4, Con +3, Int +0, Wis +2, Cha +0
Personality Fragments A soulbound doll shares fragments of its
donor soul’s personality, though none of that creature’s memories. This
causes a soulbound doll to match the donor soul’s alignment and gain the
corresponding alignment traits.
AC 20; Fort +7, Ref +10, Will +6
HP 23; Immunities bleed, death eﬀects, disease, doomed, drained,
fatigued, healing, mental, necromancy, nonlethal attacks, paralyzed,
poison, sickened, unconscious
Speed 20 feet
Melee Ȱɵ ﬁst +10 (agile, ﬁnesse, magical), Damage 1d6+2 bludgeoning
Occult Innate Spells DC 18, attack +8; 3rd levitate, one additional spell
depending on the donor soul’s alignment (see sidebar); Cantrips (1st) light,
mage hand, prestidigitation
p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19669157
4425314
