p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19668888
4425045
A-C
35
Introduction
A-C
D
E-G
H-K
L-N
O-R
S-T
U-Z
Appendix
MYSTERIOUS ORIGINS
All too often, those who study
stranger monsters make the
assumption that they were
created by powerful but ill-advised
wizards or are the result of ancient
manipulations from the alghollthu
empire. In the case of the baomal,
extensive research suggests that
neither of these explanations are
accurate. No ancient texts have yet
been recovered in which a wizard
claims to have created the ﬁrst
baomal. And while the alghollthu
of today use them as warbeasts,
ancient carvings suggest that in
the earliest days, baomals were
ravenous hunters of alghollthus.
Baomal
Few sea monsters are as dreaded and feared as the two-headed baomal. These
massive predatory beasts typically dwell in the deepest waters and compete with
krakens and other monsters for food. They feed on whales and other large sea
creatures, sometimes following them to the water’s surface. Near the surface,
baomals that encounter ships quickly learn that they contain a variety of tasty
morsels. The creatures use their devastating spikes to rip open the ships’ hulls,
then leisurely feed on the helpless sailors.
BAOMAL
CREATURE 20
CN
GARGANTUAN
ABERRATION
AQUATIC
Perception +34; darkvision, scent (imprecise) 80 feet
Languages Aklo
Skills Athletics +41, Stealth +31, Survival +37
Str +10, Dex +2, Con +8, Int –3, Wis +6, Cha +1
AC 48; Fort +36, Ref +30, Will +34
HP 315; Resistances physical 10
All-Around Vision
Attack of Opportunity Ǻȓ
Double Opportunity A baomal gains an extra reaction each
round that it can use only to make an Attack of Opportunity.
It must use a diﬀerent head for each one it attempts, and
it can’t make more than one Attack of Opportunity for the
same triggering action.
Psychic Static Aura (aura, divination, mental, occult) 120 feet.
All creatures, except aberrations, that begin their turn in
the area take 5d6 mental damage.
Two Heads Any ability that would sever
a baomal’s head (such as a critical hit
with a vorpal weapon) severs one
head at random. Losing one head
doesn’t kill a baomal, but it does
prevent the baomal from making Strikes
with the lost head and from using Double
Opportunity or Two-Headed Strike.
Speed 50 feet, swim 80 feet
Melee Ȱɵ jaws +38 (reach 20 feet),
Damage 4d12+18 piercing plus Improved Grab
Ranged Ȱɵ tsunami jet +38 (brutal, range 500 feet), Damage 4d10+18
bludgeoning plus Push 40 feet
Breath of the Sea Ȱɵ (attack) A baomal can inhale tremendous
amounts of water, drawing everything in the sea nearby
closer. All creatures and objects in the water within
60 feet of the baomal (including ships) are
pulled toward it. Creatures must succeed at
a DC 42 Athletics check or be pulled up to
20 feet toward the baomal (40 feet on a critical failure). For ships, use the captain’s
Sailing Lore in place of Athletics. Unattended objects are automatically pulled.
Shell Rake Ȱɵ (move) The baomal Swims or Strides alongside a creature or the hull of a
vessel, dealing damage with the strong spikes on its shell. Each creature or ship the
baomal is adjacent to at any point during its movement takes 6d6+10 slashing and
piercing damage (DC 42 basic Reﬂex save). Against vessels, Shell Rake ignores the
ﬁrst 5 Hardness and creates an explosion of splinters that deals 3d6+5 damage to
every creature within 10 feet of the deck’s edge (DC 42 basic Reﬂex save).
Two-Headed Strike ʚʖ The baomal makes a Strike with each set of jaws, each against a
diﬀerent creature. These Strikes count as one attack for the baomal’s multiple attack
penalty, and the penalty doesn’t increase until after both attacks.
p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19668888
4425045
