p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19669172
4425329
U-Z
319
Introduction
A-C
D
E-G
H-K
L-N
O-R
S-T
U-Z
Appendix
VAMPIRES AND DHAMPIR
The most common and traditional
vampires, as presented here, are
known also as the “moroi.” They
are prevalent in Golarion in the
mist-shrouded counties of Ustalav
and found in small numbers in
almost every nation of the Inner
Sea. Other types of vampires
include the withered nosferatu,
the hopping jiang shi, and the
psychic vetala—these vampires
share many of the basic traits
with moroi but possess new
abilities of their own. Dhampir
(page 95) can be born of any
of these vampire races, though
moroi-born dhampir known as
svetochers are the most common,
especially in the Inner Sea region.
vampire loses all its actions in this way, it is destroyed. Due to their supernatural
aversion to light, vampires don’t cast shadows or show a reﬂection in mirrors.
Climb Speed Vampires gain a climb Speed equal to their land Speed.
Claws If the creature had hands, its ﬁngernails thicken and grow, granting it an unarmed
claw Strike that deals slashing damage and has the agile trait. If the monster had
any agile attacks, the damage dealt by its claws should be roughly the same as the
damage dealt by those attacks. If it had only non-agile attacks, its claws should deal
three-quarters that damage.
Drink Blood Ȱɵ (divine, necromancy); Requirement A grabbed, paralyzed, restrained,
unconscious, or willing creature is within the vampire’s reach. Eﬀect The vampire sinks
its fangs into that creature to drink its blood. This requires an Athletics check against
the victim’s Fortitude DC if the victim is grabbed and is automatic for any of the other
conditions. The victim is drained 1 and the vampire regains HP equal to 10% of its
maximum HP, gaining any excess HP as temporary Hit Points. Drinking Blood from a
creature that’s already drained doesn’t restore any HP to the vampire but increases
the victim’s drain value by 1. A vampire can also consume blood that’s been emptied
into a vessel for sustenance, but it gains no HP from doing so.
A victim’s drained condition decreases by 1 per week. A blood transfusion,
which requires a DC 20 Medicine check and sufficient blood or a blood donor,
reduces the drain by 1 after 10 minutes.
Grab The creature’s claw attacks (or equivalent unarmed attacks) gain Grab.
TRUE VAMPIRE AbILITIES
Powerful vampires that can create and control vampires from their victims gain
additional vampire abilities, as detailed below. A creature below level 5 is not a
signiﬁcant enough creature to become a true vampire—you should instead simply
make such a creature into a regular vampire spawn, or rebuild the creature so that
it’s at least level 5 before becoming a true vampire.
Resistances The vampire resists all physical damage except magical silver.
Create Spawn (divine, downtime, necromancy) If a creature dies after being reduced
to 0 HP by Drink Blood, the vampire can turn this victim into a vampire by donating
some of its own blood to the victim and burying the victim in earth for 3 nights. If
the new vampire is lower level than its creator, it is under the creator’s control. If a
vampire controls too many spawn at once (as determined by the GM), strong-willed
spawn can free themselves by succeeding at a Will saving throw against the
vampire’s Will DC.
Mist Escape Ȳ˓ Trigger The vampire is reduced to 0 HP. Eﬀect The vampire uses Turn to
Mist (page 320). It can take move actions to move toward its coﬃn even though it’s
at 0 HP. While at 0 HP in this form, the vampire is unaﬀected by further damage. It
automatically returns to its corporeal form, unconscious, if it reaches its coﬃn or after
2 hours, whichever comes ﬁrst.
Change Shape Ȱɵ (concentrate, divine, polymorph, transmutation) The vampire
transforms into one of its animal forms or back into its normal form. Most vampires
can turn into a bat, but some can turn into a diﬀerent creature, such as a rat or a wolf.
Use the options in the aerial form and animal form spells as guidelines.
•	 Bat The vampire changes into a bat swarm or giant bat (page 39). It gains
echolocation 40 feet, a land Speed of 20 feet and a ﬂy Speed of 30 feet, and a fangs
Strike with the same attack bonus as its highest melee attack. These fangs deal the
same amount of damage as the vampire’s claws, but deal piercing damage rather
than slashing damage.
Children of the Night (divine, enchantment, mental) The vampire’s presence brings
forth creatures of the night to do the master’s bidding. These typically include rat
swarms, bat swarms, and wolves, but can include other creatures. The vampire can
give telepathic orders to these creatures as long as they are within 100 feet, but they
can’t communicate back.
Dominate ʚʖ (divine, enchantment, incapacitation, mental, visual) The vampire
can cast dominate at will as a divine innate spell. Casting it requires staring into
p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19669172
4425329
