p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19668938
4425095
D
85
Introduction
A-C
D
E-G
H-K
L-N
O-R
S-T
U-Z
Appendix
CYTILLESH
Deros grow and ingest a poisonous
fungus called cytillesh, also known
as brain mold. Cytillesh gives oﬀ
a pale blue glow and can cause
birth defects and various adverse
eﬀects. Deros aren’t fazed by these
detriments, as prolonged exposure
can also slow the eﬀects of aging
and, in rare cases, provide occult
powers to certain individuals
known as “magisters.” Deros can
also brew cytillesh spores into a
poison that creates delusions and
hallucinations.
Occult Innate Spells DC 19; 2nd darkness (at will), sound burst; Cantrips (2st) daze, ghost sound
Strangle Ȱɵ (attack, nonlethal) Requirement The dero must have two free hands, or be
wielding an aklys and have one hand free. Eﬀect The dero attempts an Athletics check
to Grab with a +2 circumstance bonus. On a success, the target takes 1d6+6 bludgeoning
damage. Double the damage on a critical success.
Dero Magister
dero magisters are leaders among dero society. They perform the bulk of the cruel
operations and memory-altering procedures inﬂicted upon their victims.
DERO MAGISTER
CREATURE 5
UNCOMMON
CE
SMALL
DERO
HUMANOID
Perception +8; darkvision
Languages Aklo, Undercommon
Skills Crafting +12, Medicine +8, Occultism +12, Stealth +11
Str +1, Dex +4, Con +2, Int +3, Wis –1, Cha +5
Items aklys (see below)
AC 22, Fort +10, Ref +13, Will +10
HP 65; Immunities confusion; Weaknesses vulnerable
to sunlight
Vulnerable to Sunlight As dero stalker but 10 damage.
Speed 20 feet
Melee Ȱɵ aklys +10 (trip), Damage 1d6+3 bludgeoning
Ranged Ȱɵ aklys +13 (ranged trip, tethered, thrown 20
feet), Damage 1d6+3 bludgeoning
Occult Innate Spells DC 24; 4th modify memory; 2nd
darkness (at will), sound burst; Cantrips (1st) daze,
ghost sound
Occult Spontaneous Spells DC 24; 3rd (3 slots)
blindness, vampiric touch; 2nd (4 slots) hideous
laughter, paranoia, spectral hand, touch of idiocy;
1st (4 slots) grim tendrils, magic missile, phantom pain, soothe;
Cantrips (3rd) chill touch, dancing lights, detect magic, forbidding ward,
message
Cytillesh Stare Ȱɵ (concentrate, incapacitation, mental, visual) Frequency
once per round; Eﬀect The magister focuses their gaze on a creature they
can see within 30 feet. The target is dazzled for 1 round and must succeed
at a DC 24 Will saving throw or be confused for 1 round.
Aklyses
The aklys is a throwing club with a hook on one end and a lengthy cord attached
to the other. It is an uncommon advanced melee weapon in the club group. It deals
1d6 bludgeoning damage and has 1 Bulk. It requires one hand to use and has the
ranged trip, tethered, thrown 20 feet, and trip weapon traits; the new traits are
described below. Though aklyses aren’t available in most shops, one might be
purchased for 5 gp from a vendor that specializes in strange weapons.
Ranged Trip: This weapon can be used to Trip with the Athletics skill at a distance
up to the weapon’s ﬁrst range increment. The skill check takes a –2 circumstance
penalty. You can add the weapon’s item bonus to attack rolls as a bonus to the
check. As with using a melee weapon to trip, a ranged trip doesn’t deal any damage
when used to Trip. This trait usually only appears on a thrown weapon.
Tethered: This weapon is attached to a length of rope or chain that allows you
to retrieve it after it has left your hand. If you have a free hand while wielding
this weapon, you can use an Interact action to pull the weapon back into your
grasp after you have thrown it as a ranged attack or after it has been disarmed
(unless it is being held by another creature).
p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19668938
4425095
