p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19668931
4425088
Bestiary
78
WHAT MAKES A SIN?
Some classify sin into seven
categories—envy, gluttony, greed,
lust, pride, sloth, and wrath. While
these sins embody some of the most
powerful and numerous demons, far
more than seven demons exist. Any
act of cruelty or destruction a mortal
takes to gratify the self at others’
expense is, in eﬀect, a sin, and any
such act can spawn a
demon from a soul in
the afterlife.
The target must succeed at a DC 26 Will save or be aﬀected by a suggestion to submit
to more actions of passion rather than trying to Escape.
Profane Gift ̂ˬ (divine, enchantment, mental); Frequency once per day. Eﬀect The
succubus on can give a willing humanoid a profane gift. That creature gains a +1 status
bonus to attack rolls, skill checks, and saving throws. As long as the gift persists, the
succubus can communicate telepathically with the target at any distance, see through
the creature’s senses, and target the creature with suggestion through the telepathic
link. In addition, the creature uses an outcome one degree of success worse than it rolls
on saving throws against the lust demon’s suggestions.
A humanoid can’t have more than one profane gift at a time, and a succubus can’t
grant more than one profane gift at a time. Removing the gift requires an atone ritual. The
succubus can remove the gift as a free action to give the recipient a permanent stupeﬁed
3 condition. A 4th-level restoration spell is required to reduce this stupeﬁed condition by 1.
A summoned succubus can’t grant a profane gift.
Vrock (Wrath Demon)
When the gates to the Abyss swing wide, the ﬁrst demons through are often
vrocks, vulture-headed scions of rage who wheel through the air on black wings
or dance with the exultation of their ﬁendish power. Their hatred for mortals is
matched only by their desire to inﬂict suffering through
their horrible screech or their devastating dance.
Vrocks form from the souls of hateful mortals
who are thus given another chance to inﬂict their
rage on the world.
Vrocks often travel in small groups so as to make the
best use of their dance of ruin ability, but they rarely
appear in groups larger than four. Against small groups
and individuals, they swoop down without fear, hoping
to play with their prey before going for the kill. Against
formidable foes, they are just as happy to ﬂy above, using
their dance of ruin to cast a storm of lightning down on them.
VROCK
CREATURE 9
CE
LARGE
DEMON
FIEND
Perception +18; darkvision
Languages Abyssal, Celestial, Draconic; telepathy 100 feet
Skills Acrobatics +18, Intimidation +18, Performance +18,
Religion +18, Stealth +18, Survival +16
Str +6, Dex +3, Con +5, Int +2, Wis +3, Cha +3
AC 28; Fort +20, Ref +18, Will +15; +1 status to all saves vs. magic
HP 185; Weaknesses cold iron 10, good 10; Resistances electricity 10
Attack of Opportunity Ǻȓ If the vrock is ﬂying and a creature triggers an
attack of opportunity, the vrock can make 2 Strikes with its talons against
that creature instead of 1 Strike.
Peace Vulnerability A vrock’s wrath is the heart of their essence, and forcing
peace upon them wrenches at their soul. If they fail a save against calm emotions
or a similar eﬀect forcing them to be peaceful, a vrock takes 4d6 mental damage.
Speed 25 feet, ﬂy 35 feet
Melee Ȱɵ beak +21 (evil, magical, reach 10 feet), Damage 3d8+9 piercing plus 1d6 evil
Melee Ȱɵ claw +21 (agile, evil, magical, reach 10 feet), Damage 3d6+9 slashing plus 1d6 evil
Melee Ȱɵ talon +19 (agile, evil, magical, reach 10 feet), Damage 2d6+8 slashing plus 1d6 evil
Divine Innate Spells DC 26; 5th dimension door; 4th dimension door (at will); 2nd
mirror image
Divine Rituals DC 26; Abyssal pact
Dance of Ruin ̂ˬ (divine, electricity, evocation, manipulate, move) The vrock dances
in ﬂight and chants to create a ruinous explosion of electricity. If more vrocks within
30 feet want to join the dance, the vrock can delay the dance to wait for more vrocks;
FPO
p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19668931
4425088
