p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19669051
4425208
Bestiary
198
ELDRITCH GODS
Gugs don’t traditionally make
religion and faith a key part of
their society, but gug cities always
feature prominent temples to
obscure gods whose faith has
passed from view on most mortal
worlds. Most gugs certainly know
of entities such as Azathoth,
Nyarlathotep, and Yog-Sothoth,
but even among gugs, these
Outer Gods are more feared and
respected than prayed to.
Gug
A gug’s most horrid feature is its barrel-shaped head, which splits vertically to
reveal numerous rows of sharp, yellow teeth and an open throat. Its eyes on
either side of its head-jaw are small but keen. Bony ridges protect its eyes from the
frantic ﬂailing of its prey, as it prefers meals of raw and writhing meat over fungi
and molds. It grips said prey with powerful arms that split at the elbow into a pair
of forearms, giving it four clawed paws. These monstrous brutes are covered with
shaggy black fur, often crusted with blood and gore.
Although gugs may seem bestial, they have keen and wicked intellects. Gugs
lair far underground, but they sometimes come to the surface to hunt during dark
nights, either alone or in small groups. As they possess voracious appetites, most
gugs consume the creatures they catch, but some instead kidnap their victims
and retreat below the surface, leaving only a lingering stench and odd, clawed
paw-prints. Victims are taken to rancid lairs marked
with strange runes and sacriﬁced to the gugs’ wicked
gods of blood, darkness, and nightmares. Dire rumors
tell of lightless gug cities made of titanic blocks of
stone far underground, where powerful gug leaders
preach their vile doctrines to mobs of howling gugs.
Gugs have a strange relationship with ghouls, which
seems to date from their shared origin in a distant subterranean
world. Gugs live in fear of ghouls, despite towering over them;
however, this strange fear doesn’t apply to ghasts, whom gugs
consume as voraciously as they do other creatures.
Gugs stand 16 feet tall and weigh 2,000 pounds,
although they have an eerie, graceful gait that belies
their immense size. Their light step and ability
to squeeze through very small crannies makes
gugs common bogeymen in tales of strange
disappearances or bloody massacres.
Some particularly bloodthirsty gugs gain
awful powers as gifts from their eldritch
patrons. These monsters are known as savants,
are never less than 12th level in power, and gain several occult innate spells.
Though each savant’s precise mix of spells varies, normally, these spells grant
invisibility, offer power to manipulate and change rock, or invoke awful and
destructive energies upon living ﬂesh.
GUG
CREATURE 10
CE
LARGE
ABERRATION
Perception +19; darkvision
Languages Undercommon
Skills Acrobatics +19 (+23 to Squeeze), Athletics +23, Stealth +19, Survival +17
Str +7, Dex +3, Con +6, Int +0, Wis +3, Cha +0
AC 30; Fort +22, Ref +17, Will +19
HP 175
Attack of Opportunity Ǻȓ
Speed 40 feet, climb 20 feet
Melee Ȱɵ jaws +23 (reach 15 feet), Damage 2d12+13 piercing
Melee Ȱɵ claw +23 (agile, reach 15 feet), Damage 2d8+13 slashing
Eerie Flexibility Despite its size, the gug’s multiple joints allow it to ﬁt through
tight spaces as if it were a Medium creature. While Squeezing, it can move at
its full Speed.
Furious Claws ʚʖ The gug makes up to four claw Strikes, each against a diﬀerent
target. These attacks all count toward the gug’s multiple attack penalty, but the
penalty doesn’t increase until after the gug makes all its attacks.
Rend Ȱɵ claw
p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19669051
4425208
