p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19669055
4425212
Bestiary
202
THE NATURE OF HAGS
Some believe that hags possess
no true form or body of their
own, but instead manifest from
society’s fear of aging. That no
known male hags exist has also
puzzled scholars, but perhaps
this is but another way in which
hags mock society—by presenting
themselves as awful stereotypes
of elderly women.
ANNIS HAG
CREATURE 6
CE
LARGE
HAG
HUMANOID
Perception +15; darkvision
Languages Aklo, Common, Jotun
Skills Acrobatics +10, Athletics +14 (+16 to Grapple), Deception +11, Diplomacy +9,
Intimidation +11, Stealth +14
Str +6, Dex +4, Con +4, Int +1, Wis +4, Cha +3
Coven An annis hag adds earthbind, passwall, and spellwrack to her coven’s spells.
AC 24; Fort +16, Ref +12, Will +14, +1 status to all saves vs. magic
HP 85; Resistances physical 5 (except bludgeoning)
Speed 40 feet
Melee Ȱɵ claw +16 (agile, cold iron, magical, reach 10 feet), Damage 2d8+6 slashing
plus Grab
Bonds of Iron ʚʖ (attack, conjuration, occult) Once per day, an annis
hag can cause a cage built of cold iron ﬁngernails to spring out of
nothingness at a range of up to 30 feet, attempting an Athletics
check to Grapple against the target’s Fortitude DC; if the target has a
weakness to cold iron, the annis hag gains a +2 circumstance bonus
to this check. Unlike a normal Grapple, the annis hag doesn’t need
to be within reach and can move as she pleases, and a successful
attempt lasts until the creature escapes (DC 24), causing the cage to
crumble into rust. Any creature can attempt to destroy the cage by
attacking it. It has an AC of 19, Hardness 10, and 40 Hit Points.
Change Shape Ȱɵ (concentrate, occult, polymorph, transmutation) The
hag can take on the appearance of any Medium female humanoid. This
doesn’t change her Speed or her attack and damage bonuses with her
Strikes but might change the damage type her Strikes deal (typically to
bludgeoning).
Rend Ȱɵ claw
Night Hag
Night hags are thieves and merchants of mortal souls.
These foul creatures collect souls in dark gems or
crystalline jars to sell in ﬁendish markets, and are
themselves empowered by potent magic jewels known
as heartstones. They haunt the Ethereal Plane, where
they prey upon mortals in their dreams, debilitating
them with horriﬁc nightmares as they rest. A night
hag may ﬁnd a particular target and haunt them
continuously over the course of weeks, slowly and
cruelly breaking down the victim’s will and ability to
resist, until their soul is forfeit.
A night hag is a canny mastermind and soul broker, willing to
consider any deal as long as she is convinced she has the upper hand.
Although a night hag ﬁnds it easy to travel the Ethereal Plane and
prey upon helpless souls that can’t ﬁght back, these souls are also the
least desirable to the evil outsiders the night hag bargains with, and
so a night hag gathers allies and minions that allow her to prey on
more potent souls without personally risking herself. Their favored
minions are nightmares, with whom they share a special bond.
Above all, night hags avoid ﬁghting foes that can harry them on the Ethereal
Plane, picking ﬁghts only when they are certain they can escape.
NIGHT HAG
CREATURE 9
NE
MEDIUM
FIEND
HAG
HUMANOID
Perception +18; darkvision
Languages Abyssal, Aklo, Celestial, Common, Infernal
p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19669055
4425212
