p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19669081
4425238
Bestiary
228
LIZARDS AND LIZARDFOLK
Giant lizards are often used as
mounts or guardians or kept
as pets, but never so often or
as traditionally as they are by
lizardfolk. The kinship these
people share with giant lizards
is unmistakable, valuing their
companionship to an extent that
equals or even exceeds that which
other societies have for popular
animal companions like dogs
and horses.
Lizard
Lizards have a wide range of appearances and abilities, but most share a basic
reptilian shape—long tails, wide toothy mouths, and four legs. While a few species
are capable of movement on two legs for short periods of time, most are strictly
quadrupedal. The three species presented here represent the most common and
well-known of the larger species.
Giant Gecko
These roughly human-sized reptiles have amazing feet capable of clinging
tenaciously to any surface. Giant geckos are typically docile and shy but can be
aggressive when cornered or defending their territory. These large-eyed lizards
are found in a wide variety of habitats, from rainforests and deserts to mountain
slopes or even underground caverns. They spend most of their time climbing
around in large trees or on rocky cliffs, whether hunting for small animals or
hiding from predators. A giant gecko’s scales are often quite brightly colored or
decorated in intricate patterns. Giant geckos span nearly 8 feet in length from
head to tail, and they weigh about 120 pounds.
Giant geckos are sometimes used by smaller humanoids as guardians
or mounts, as their docile nature makes them relatively easy to tame and
train. Their superior climbing skills make giant geckos particularly popular
within societies that dwell underground or near cliffs, such as goblins
and kobolds. Their bright coloration also makes them favorite exotic
pets in high society.
GIANT GECKO
CREATURE 1
N
MEDIUM
ANIMAL
Perception +7; low-light vision
Skills Acrobatics +8, Athletics +5 (+9 to Climb), Stealth +6
Str +2, Dex +3, Con +1, Int –4, Wis +2, Cha –2
Uncanny Climber A giant gecko’s feet allow it to climb
virtually any surface, no matter how slick or sheer. If a giant
gecko attempts an Athletics check to climb and critically
fails, it gets a failure instead.
AC 16; Fort +6, Ref +10, Will +5
HP 20
Speed 30 feet, climb 30 feet
Melee Ȱɵ jaws +8, Damage 1d8+2 piercing
Giant Monitor Lizard
Large and seemingly ponderous, a monitor lizard
is a deceptively swift and ruthless predator. It
ambushes its prey by rushing out from cover and
biting the target with its powerful jaws. A giant
monitor lizard’s saliva is venomous, allowing it to
bring down prey larger than it can easily haul away
in its jaws. Giant monitor lizards grow up to 14 feet
long, including their long tails, and they weigh
about 350 pounds. Their bodies are normally
dark brown with patches of yellow or green.
When nesting, a giant monitor lizard digs
a deep burrow to hide in. The burrow serves
as both a safe haven and a location from which
the lizard can ambush larger prey such as deer,
boars, or even humanoids. A giant monitor
lizard can consume nearly its own body weight in
a single meal, and its loosely articulated jaws allow it
to swallow surprisingly large prey.
p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19669081
4425238
