p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19669158
4425315
S-T
305
Introduction
A-C
D
E-G
H-K
L-N
O-R
S-T
U-Z
Appendix
SPHINX RIDDLES
Sphinxes are well-known for their
love of riddles, a love that often
moves beyond into the realm of
obsession. A would-be foe who can
answer a sphinx’s favorite riddles,
or better yet, can stump the
sphinx with a crafty and creative
riddle of their own, can often avoid
combat with the monster as well
as secure its aid.
Sphinx
Sphinxes are mystical beings with the body of a lion, the wings of a great bird,
and the upper torso and head of a human. They are often maligned in legends as
nothing more than monsters, and though they are quick to anger and are capable
of exacting deadly retribution for perceived slights, they are also very intelligent.
Sphinxes are often associated with desert regions, but they can dwell in more
moderate climates as well. They form small groups consisting of a single, extended
family that hunts and works together to protect and teach their young. As they
mature, sphinxes develop a wanderlust, a drive to gather hidden lore and solve the
world’s greatest riddles—the trait that is perhaps most often identiﬁed with their kind.
While sometimes bound into service as guardians for powerful spellcasters,
lone sphinxes may also be encountered on journeys of discovery and as purveyors
of esoteric lore. If treated with the proper respect—and fed well—a sphinx can
demonstrate a willingness to exchange information. Their favorite currency is,
of course, riddles and secrets. One who can trade knowledge for knowledge has
a much better chance of succeeding while bargaining with a sphinx. However,
a sphinx’s insatiable thirst for new riddles as well their extensive collection of
secrets accumulated over hundreds of years of life—makes it difﬁcult to offer them
something they don’t already know. Those who attempt to trade petty insight and
stale riddles may invoke a sphinx’s ire and will not live long enough to regret it.
SPHINX
CREATURE 8
N
LARGE
BEAST
Perception +18, darkvision; detect magic, see invisibility
Languages Common, Draconic, Sphinx; comprehend language
Skills Arcana +17, Athletics +18, Bardic Lore +19, Deception +16, Diplomacy +16,
Intimidation +18, Occultism +17
Str +6, Dex +1, Con +3, Int +5, Wis +4, Cha +4
Bardic Lore Sphinxes are naturally curious, and their love of puzzles and
mysteries leads them to gather information on a broad range of topics.
Sphinxes have the Bardic Lore bard feat, allowing them to
Recall Knowledge on any topic.
AC 27; Fort +16, Ref +14, Will +19
HP 135
Speed 35 feet, ﬂy 40 feet
Melee Ȱɵ claw +20 (agile), Damage 2d6+9 slashing
Occult Innate Spells DC 27; 4th clairaudience (at will), clairvoyance
(at will), read omens, remove curse; 3rd dispel magic, locate; Cantrips
(4th) detect magic; Constant (5th) tongues; (2nd) see invisibility
Claw Rake ̂ˬ The sphinx rears back on their hind legs and makes
two claw Strikes at the same target, using the same attack bonus
as their highest melee attack. If both attacks deal damage, the
target takes extra damage equal to one claw Strike.
Pounce Ȱɵ The sphinx Strides and makes a Strike at the end of that movement.
If the sphinx began this action hidden, they remain hidden until after the
attack.
Warding Glyph Once per week, a Sphinx can create a magical symbol as though
casting a heightened glyph of warding spell. The sphinx usually shapes the
glyph to take the form of a written riddle, and sets the password to the
answer. A creature that gives the wrong answer or tries to pass without
answering must succeed at a DC 26 Will save or suﬀer one of
the following spell eﬀects, chosen by the sphinx when
creating the symbol: synaptic pulse (5th), charm
(4th), fear (3rd), phantom pain (3rd), sleep (3rd).
The sphinx learns the identity of any creature
that answers the riddle and tends to be friendly
to them.
p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19669158
4425315
