p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19668948
4425105
D
95
Introduction
A-C
D
E-G
H-K
L-N
O-R
S-T
U-Z
Appendix
DHAMPIR LOCATIONS
Most dhampirs make their homes
in urban areas, though some more
reclusive individuals claim ruins or
dungeons as their domains.
Dhampir
As the mortal offspring of a vampire and a living parent, dhampirs occupy an
unusual place among the living. Their vampiric parentage lends them elongated
incisors, an unearthly beauty and physical grace, a ghostly pallor, and a piercing
gaze. Perhaps their most distinctive feature, however, is their connection to
negative energy, which heals them, leaving them as vulnerable to positive energy
as any undead creature. Though they don’t suffer the full range of a vampire’s
vulnerabilities, they do share certain characteristics with their vampire parent,
leading to several distinct dhampir heritages across Golarion. By far the most
common dhampirs are svetocher, the children of the more common moroi vampires.
Many dhampirs lived their childhoods as orphans, often because their mortal
parents believed their child to be cursed and abandoned them, or perished
as a result of a difﬁcult childbirth. Often outcast, some dhampirs leverage
their charisma and personal magnetism to manipulate those around them,
while others struggle to form relationships. Frequent mistrust of a dhampir’s
parentage present further challenges when dhampirs attempt to integrate into
mortal society. Those who seek out their vampiric parent instead often ﬁnd
themselves considered inferior, rejected as they were with regular mortals
but for different reasons. But in regions like Nidal, Geb, and Ustalav, where
vampires themselves carry some degree of respect, dhampirs can sometimes ﬁnd
their heritage empowering.
Dhampirs ﬁll countless roles within many communities. Some prefer to blend in
as best they can, holding regular jobs and building families (most children born
to dhampirs share an ancestry with the dhampir’s mortal parent, but a rare few
are born as dhampirs themselves). Those who learn to make the most of their
inherited charm can achieve a high societal status, whether leveraging traditional
avenues of power or gathering followers enamored by the dhampir’s abilities.
With a lifespan rivaling that of an elf, a dhampir can develop extensive
inﬂuence and engage in long-reaching schemes of massive scope. Further, their
ancestry lends them a proclivity to necromancy and the occult arts.
Dhampir Wizard
This dhampir is a svetocher, the child of a moroi vampire.
DHAMPIR WIZARD
CREATURE 2
NE
MEDIUM
DHAMPIR
HUMAN
HUMANOID
Perception +4; darkvision
Languages Common, Necril
Skills Acrobatics +7, Arcana +8, Deception +5, Intimidation +5, Society +8, Stealth
+7, Vampire Lore +8
Str +2, Dex +3, Con +0, Int +4, Wis +0, Cha +1
Items dagger, spellbook containing their prepared spells, staﬀ
AC 17; Fort +4, Ref +7, Will +6; +2 circumstance to all saves vs. disease
HP 22, negative healing
Blood of the Night The dhampir’s penalty and Hit Point reduction
from the drained condition are reduced as though the
condition value were 1 lower.
Speed 25 feet
Melee Ȱɵ dagger +7 (agile, ﬁnesse, versatile S), Damage
1d4+2 piercing
Melee Ȱɵ staﬀ +6 (two-handed d8), Damage 1d6+2 bludgeoning
Melee Ȱɵ ﬁst +7 (agile, ﬁnesse, nonlethal), Damage 1d4+2
bludgeoning
Ranged Ȱɵ dagger +7 (agile, thrown 10 feet, versatile S), Damage 1d4+2 piercing
Arcane Prepared Spells DC 18, attack +8; 1st command, grim tendrils (×2),
magic missile; Cantrips (1st) chill touch, detect magic, prestidigitation, ray
of frost, shield
p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19668948
4425105
