p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19668989
4425146
Bestiary
136
Drow
The ﬁrst drow were elves who ﬂed into the depths of the world from a devastating
cataclysm thousands of years ago. In their journey below, they fell to bickering
and in-ﬁghting, drawing the attention of sinister intelligences beyond their own.
Whether it was the inﬂuence of a speciﬁc demon lord, the Rough Beast Rovagug,
or some other fell force is unknown, but in that time the elves transformed both
spiritually and physically, tainting their hearts with desires for cruelty, sadism,
and violence. The hues of their eyes became sinister red or bleached white, and
their ﬂesh adopted an unearthly lavender sheen that made the drow instantly
recognizable. The drow also developed potent magical abilities and resistances
that further empowered them, if at the cost of their souls.
Over the centuries to follow, the drow developed into a powerful, if violently
dysfunctional society, inﬂuenced by the worship of demon lords and focused on
providing power and glory to a relatively small collection of noble houses. Many
of these noble houses are matriarchal in nature and all hold allegiance to a speciﬁc
demon lord patron—but traditions of worship, warfare, and wizardry help to
bind the oft-bickering houses together enough that drow society doesn’t simply
consume itself from within. Fear of earning the wrath of one’s superior—be it a
teacher, a parent, a commander, or the demon one worships—is the real bond
holding drow society together, and this system is held in esteem by the lowliest
drow servant and by the most powerful drow priestess alike.
The drow are infamous throughout the world, but until recently most assumed
stories of demon-worshipping, underground-dwelling elves were spooky legends
crafted to share around a campﬁre. Today, the existence of drow is an understood
truth, and while their presence in the dark caverns deep below is unsettling, they
seem content to leave the surface world alone for now.
Drow Fighter
Drow ﬁghters train to master techniques that inﬂict deep, bleeding wounds and
use poisoned crossbow bolts to exhaust enemies.
DROW FIGHTER
CREATURE 1
CE
MEDIUM
DROW
ELF
HUMANOID
Perception +6; darkvision
Languages Elven, Undercommon
Skills Acrobatics +7, Athletics +5, Intimidation +3, Stealth +7
Str +2, Dex +4, Con +2, Int +0, Wis +1, Cha +0
Items hand crossbow (10 bolts), leather armor, lethargy poison (2; Pathﬁnder Core
Rulebook 552), rapier
Light Blindness
AC 18; Fort +7, Ref +9, Will +4; +1 status to all saves vs. magic, +2 status to all
saves vs. mental
HP 18; Immunities sleep
Attack of Opportunity Ǻȓ
Speed 30 feet
Melee Ȱɵ rapier +9 (deadly 1d8, disarm, ﬁnesse), Damage 1d6+2 piercing
Melee Ȱɵ main-gauche +9 (agile, disarm, ﬁnesse, parry, versatile S), Damage
1d4+2 piercing
Ranged Ȱɵ hand crossbow +9 (range increment 60 feet, reload 1), Damage
1d6+1 piercing plus lethargy poison
Divine Innate Spells DC 14; 2nd darkness (at will), faerie ﬁre (at will);
Cantrips (2nd) dancing lights
Quick Draw Ȱɵ The drow ﬁghter draws a weapon using the Interact action,
then Strikes with that weapon.
Skewer ʚʖ The drow ﬁghter Strikes with its rapier, and gains a
+1 circumstance bonus to the attack roll. A creature damaged by
the attack takes 1d6 persistent bleed damage.
BECOMING A DROW
Rarely, when a surface elf
commits an act of cruelty heinous
enough to draw the attention of a
demon lord, transformation into a
drow can happen spontaneously—
but these transformations are
rare enough to be legends in their
own right. No known instance of a
drow reverting to an elf has ever
been recorded.
p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19668989
4425146
