p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19669143
4425300
Bestiary
290
SHAMBLER TREASURE
Shamblers collect trinkets from
their previous victims and store
them in small hollows within their
bodies. They particularly prize
gems, but also like alchemical
or magical items that produce
electrical eﬀects such as bottled
lightning and shock runes.
Shambler
Shamblers are cunning carnivorous plants that resemble heaps of wet, rotting
vegetation. Even when standing erect on their stumpy legs, shamblers don’t have
much in the way of identiﬁable anatomy; they are tangles of parasitic vines that
lash out at prey with their longest creepers, entwined together to deliver powerful
blows. Sometimes called “shambling mounds,” these ambush predators have a
particular fondness for ﬂesh, and are most well known for their ability to hunker
down and hide in plain sight. A shambler can draw nutrients from plant matter
or soil, but won’t do so if it suspects meat might soon wander near, and indeed
may lie in wait for days in anticipation of such a meal.
Shamblers are usually solitary creatures. Fierce thunderstorms are among the
few events that bring numerous shamblers together. During such gatherings, the
plants gather around strange but seemingly sacred earthen mounds in remote
jungles and swamps and cavort and caper excitedly, stretching their tendrils
toward the sky to hope for—or perhaps to summon—intense lightning strikes.
Not only are these strange plants unharmed by even the most powerful electrical
strikes, but they seem to become supernaturally empowered by such bursts of
raw energy. Shamblers consider being struck by lightning a sign of divine favor,
and those shamblers frequently blasted by bolts of electricity become respected
(and powerful) elders among their kind. Shambler elders are few and far between
and may possess a wide array of abilities; some can cast
primal spells, others can empathically call upon the aid
of other shamblers in the area, and still others wield
awesome powers over electricity.
Other types of shamblers exist, including those composed
not of plant matter but fungal growth. These creatures, known
as “spore mounds,” discharge clouds of toxic spores from their
bodies when struck in combat. In semiarid deserts, shambler-like
plants called tanglethorns dwell amid sagebrush and rock
formations; they resemble bunches of tumbleweeds and cacti and
inﬂict deep, bloody lacerations with their attacks.
SHAMBLER
CREATURE 6
N
LARGE
PLANT
Perception +12; darkvision
Languages Common, Elven, Sylvan (can’t speak any language)
Skills Athletics +16, Stealth +12 (+18 in forests or swamps)
Str +6, Dex +1, Con +5, Int –2, Wis +2, Cha –1
Mound When it’s not in danger, the shambler spends 1 minute settling
into a pile that looks like a lump of loose vegetation. While it is in
this form, creatures must actively Seek and succeed at a DC 22
Perception check (DC 28 in forests or swamps) to detect the
shambler’s true nature.
AC 22; Fort +17, Ref +11, Will +14
HP 120; Immunities electricity; Resistances ﬁre 5
Electric Surge Whenever the shambler would take electricity damage
or is targeted with an electricity eﬀect, it gains 12 temporary HP and
is quickened until the end of its next turn. It can use its extra
action to Stride, Strike, or Swim.
Shamble Ǻȓ Requirements The shambler is in mound
form. Trigger A creature unaware of the shambler’s true
nature comes within 10 feet. Eﬀect The shambler makes a vine
Strike against the creature. Then roll initiative.
Speed 20 feet, swim 20 feet
Melee Ȱɵ vine +17 (reach 10 feet), Damage 2d8+8 bludgeoning plus Grab
Vine Lash ʚʖ The shambler makes a vine Strike against each creature within reach.
Its multiple attack penalty increases only after all the attacks.
p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19669143
4425300
