p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19669167
4425324
Bestiary
314
TROLL BLOOD
The blood of trolls is a valuable
and diﬃcult-to-procure substance
of intense interest to alchemists,
witches, and doctors the world
over. Though initially it is of little
interest other than its unnaturally
vibrant hue, when processed
correctly its applications are
numerous. Experiments have
produced oils that restore lost
limbs, potions that grant the
imbiber supernatural strength,
and even smoke bombs that cause
anyone caught in the haze to ﬂy
into an unstoppable rage.
Troll
Slavering, cruel, practically invincible brutes: this is the villager’s stock description
for the dread monsters known as trolls. But words hardly do justice to trolls’
capacity for destruction. They are as bloodthirsty as orcs but lacking the discipline,
as massive as giants but capable of regenerating wounded ﬂesh in an instant,
and as reprobate as ogres but with twice the strength. The only way to really
understand the wanton violence of a troll is to experience it ﬁrsthand—a fate few
would wish even upon their worst enemies.
The ﬁrst thing that comes to mind when most think of trolls is the creatures’
power of bodily regeneration. So potent is this regeneration that the only way to
overcome it is to exploit the troll’s vulnerability to acid and ﬁre. It is not enough
to slay the troll with caustic or ﬂaming weapons, though—even the smallest
scrap of a troll’s ﬂesh can regenerate into a full-size troll given enough time. The
only sure way to eradicate a troll menace is to burn the monster’s entire body
until nothing remains.
Trolls are solitary hunters, for their wickedness is anathema even to other
giants. They occasionally roam in small gangs of two to four, but only when
prey is plentiful or a particularly strong counterforce has broached their
hunting grounds. In rare instances, an old and powerful troll comes to lead
small tribes of trolls. Such “troll kings” possess enough cunning to lead
their hordes in devastating raids and massacres, and their presence
permanently alters the surrounding ecosystem.
A wide variety of trolls exist, from the terrible
monster traditionally associated with the name to the
water-dwelling scrag and hybrid ﬂood troll. Regional
variations exist as well—mountain trolls among stony
peaks, for instance, or moss trolls in swampy bayous—
but all share the same trademark regenerative powers and
insatiable thirst for blood.
Troll
Common trolls are dim-witted, gangly giants who
stalk the fringes of civilization. They rely on their
incredible strength to overpower foes with their
vicious claws and toothy maws. A troll’s endless hunger
drives it to consume all variety of living creatures, and it
is their ravenous eating habits that fuel trolls’ legendary
regenerative abilities. Trolls stand anywhere from 12 to
16 feet tall, though they prefer to hunch for comfort and
to lull foes into a false sense of security.
TROLL
CREATURE 5
CE
LARGE
GIANT
TROLL
Perception +11; darkvision
Languages Jotun
Skills Athletics +12, Intimidation +12
Str +5, Dex +2, Con +6, Int –2, Wis +0, Cha –2
AC 20; Fort +17, Ref +11, Will +7
HP 115, regeneration 20 (deactivated by acid or ﬁre); Weaknesses ﬁre 10
Attack of Opportunity Ǻȓ
Speed 30 feet
Melee Ȱɵ jaws +14 (reach 10 feet), Damage 2d10+5 piercing
Melee Ȱɵ claw +14 (agile, reach 10 feet), Damage 2d8+5 slashing
Rend Ȱɵ claw
Troll King
Some trolls have learned the skills necessary to survive
p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19669167
4425324
