p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19669030
4425187
E-G
177
Introduction
A-C
D
E-G
H-K
L-N
O-R
S-T
U-Z
Appendix
GIMMERLING TREASURE
Gimmerlings collect weapons,
traps, mechanical novelties,
and dangerous magic items.
A gimmerling is likely found
with tools (like artisan’s tools,
repair kits, and thieves’ tools)
and items it can use to appear
more vulnerable, such as locks,
manacles, and snare kits (which it
feigns being trapped by).
Gimmerling
Gimmerlings are small, shapeshifting fey who stage ambushes to sate their
endless hunger and childish greed. These cruelly curious fey obsess over ﬁnding
and making unusual traps and sadistic weapons, and their favorite amusement is
seeing these traps sprung or the weapons wielded. When on the Material Plane,
they are frequently found in urban areas, particularly slums or other parts of
town where they can either go unnoticed or be easily forgotten—and have plenty
of victims to choose from.
A typical gimmerling disguises itself as an endangered child, doing so in hopes
of drawing creatures close enough to rob. The gimmerling puts itself in apparent
danger using a trap, construct, or bribed ally, or even a coerced monster like
a redcap (page 278).
Because gimmerlings sometimes trade obscure smithing or trapping techniques
in exchange for gifts that sate their curiosity, their greed, or their hunger, they
have at times been worshipped as minor gods of the forge. Some disciplined
gimmerlings work as honored artisans, elite guards, or spies for the demigods
known as the Eldest who dwell in the depths of the First World.
GIMMERLING
CREATURE 12
UNCOMMON
LE
SMALL
FEY
Perception +21; hungersense (imprecise) 30 feet, low-light vision
Languages Aklo, Common, Sylvan
Skills Crafting +23, Deception +25, Nature +21, Stealth +25, Thievery +25
Str +4, Dex +7, Con +4, Int +5, Wis +3, Cha +4
Items +1 striking hand crossbow (20 bolts)
Hungersense Hungersense allows the gimmerling to sense creatures
that require food to live.
AC 34; Fort +22, Ref +25, Will +19
HP 235; Weaknesses cold iron 10
Treacherous Aura (aura, primal, transmutation) 15 feet. Tangled
roots, jagged divots, sharp rocks and other hazards appear
on surfaces in the aura, creating diﬃcult terrain.
Trip Up Ǻȓ Trigger A creature critically fails a melee attack
to hit the gimmerling or moves into a space within the
gimmerling’s treacherous aura. Eﬀect The triggering creature
must attempt a DC 32 Reﬂex save.
Critical Success The target is unaﬀected.
Success The target is ﬂat-footed until the start of its next turn.
Failure The target takes 2d10 bludgeoning damage and is ﬂat-footed until the
start of its next turn.
Critical Failure As failure, and the target is knocked prone.
Speed 30 feet; trickster’s step
Melee Ȱɵ claw +26 (agile, ﬁnesse), Damage 2d8+7 slashing plus Disarm
Melee Ȱɵ jaws +26 (ﬁnesse), Damage 3d8+7 piercing plus 2d6 poison
Ranged Ȱɵ hand crossbow +28 (range increment 60 feet, reload 1), Damage 2d6+3
piercing plus 2d6 poison
Change Shape Ȱɵ (concentrate, polymorph, primal, transmutation) The gimmerling
changes into its natural form or that of any humanoid. In humanoid form, it loses its
treacherous aura, and its equipment appears to be trinkets or toys. As a humanoid
that lacks claws or fangs, it loses the matching Strike. If it loses its claw Strike, it
gains a ﬁst Strike that is identical except that it deals bludgeoning damage.
Disarm ʚʖ Requirement The gimmerling’s last action was a success with a Strike
that has Disarm in its damage entry. Eﬀect The gimmerling knocks a held or carried
weapon to the ground in the target’s space.
Sneak Attack The gimmerling deals 2d6 extra precision damage to ﬂat-footed creatures.
Trickster’s Step The gimmerling ignores diﬃcult terrain and doesn’t trigger traps with
its movement.
GIMMERLING LOCATIONS
Gimmerlings are more common
in the First World than on the
Material Plane and favor hunting
grounds on the verges of dangerous
places where they might encounter
protective creatures to mislead with
their disguises.
p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19669030
4425187
