p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19668869
4425026
Bestiary
16
Angel
The celestial hosts of angels are messengers and warriors, divided into choirs
based on their abilities and purviews. The majority of angels are neutral good and
live in Nirvana, the plane of virtue and enlightenment. However, some angels,
including several angelic deities, have different alignments, and some even dwell
on other planes. Regardless of alignment, angels remain benevolent messengers
possessed with magical auras to aid their allies.
Cassisian (Archive Angel)
The weakest of angels, cassisians usually serve as lackey messengers for more
powerful angels or as spiritual guides for mortals. Despite their limited intellect,
cassisians have a knack for precise recollection, particularly with scripture. Most
cassisians are formed from the souls of trustworthy mortals, but some arise from
fragments of greater angels destroyed in service to the celestial realms.
CASSISIAN
CREATURE 1
NG
TINY
ANGEL
CELESTIAL
Perception +6; darkvision
Languages Celestial, Common, Draconic, Infernal
Skills Acrobatics +6, Diplomacy +6, Religion +6, Stealth +6
Str –1, Dex +1, Con +2, Int –1, Wis +1, Cha +1
AC 18; +1 status vs. evil creatures; Fort +7, Ref +6, Will +4; +1
status to all saves vs. evil creatures
HP 20; Weaknesses evil 3; Resistances cold 3, ﬁre 3
Transfer Protection A non-evil creature can wear a
willing cassisian as a helmet. While it does, the cassisian
can take no actions, but the cassisian extends its +1
status bonus to AC and saves against evil creatures to its
wearer. At any time, the cassisian can detach itself from
its wearer as an action.
Speed ﬂy 40 feet
Melee Ȱɵ headbutt +6 (agile, ﬁnesse, good, magical),
Damage 1d6–1 bludgeoning plus 1d4 good
Divine Innate Spells DC 16; 4th read omens; 1st detect alignment
(at will, evil only), heal; Cantrips (1st) know direction, light
Change Shape Ȱɵ (concentrate, divine, polymorph, transmutation)
A cassisian can take the appearance of a dove, a winged humanoid,
a dog, or a ﬁsh. Normally, this doesn’t change its Speed or the attack
and damage bonuses for its Strikes, but it might change the damage
type Strikes deal (typically to bludgeoning). Any further changes for
speciﬁc forms are noted below.
•	 Dog size Small; scent (imprecise) 30 feet, Speed 40 feet; Melee jaws +7,
Damage 1d6+2 piercing plus Knockdown
•	 Fish swim Speed 30 feet
Eye Beams ʚʖ (concentrate, divine, evocation) The cassisian releases beams of heat
or cold from its eyes, dealing 2d6 cold or ﬁre damage (DC 17 basic Reﬂex save) to all
creatures in a 15-foot line. It can’t use Eye Beams again for 1d4 rounds.
Repository of Lore While the cassisian isn’t particularly intelligent, it has perfect memory
and can remember everything it sees or hears. This allows it to attempt Lore checks
on any topic, provided (at the GM’s discretion) the cassisian has encountered the topic
in question before. The cassisian’s limited intellect often prevents it from acting upon
its knowledge, making it a better resource than agent in matters of information use.
Choral (Choir Angel)
Choral angels are incredible singers who ﬁll the halls of Nirvana with pious
chants and sacred hymns. They form from the souls of talented bards and other
performers. While they shy away from conﬂict, they occasionally brave the mortal
ANGELIC DIVINITIES
The most powerful angels belong
to a category of demigods known
as the empyreal lords—a title
shared with other powerful
good-aligned demigods among
the host of archons, azatas, and
other inhabitants of the celestial
planes. The most powerful and
most well-known of the angelic
empyreal lords is Sarenrae.
p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19668869
4425026
