p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19668861
4425018
Bestiary
8
Aeon
Aeons have always been the caretakers of reality and defenders of the natural
order of balance. Each type of aeon takes on some form of duality in its
manifestation and works either to shape the multiverse within the aspects
of this duality in some way, or to correct imbalances to the perfect order of
existence. Aeons can bring weal or woe when they appear in a region, and
their machinations can raise a nation, raze it, or restore it from ruin. Their
reasons are their own, and they rarely share their motivations with others—
they simply create the results they insist through their strange envisioning
communication are necessary to maintain the balance of the multiverse.
As a result of recent shifts in reality, aeons have begun to reassert a
presence in the perfect planar city of Axis. To the aeons, this is merely the
latest in a recurring cycle, albeit one that mortals have not yet borne witness
to. Once regarded as an independent faction, the living machines known as
inevitables are now revealed as having been agents of the aeons all along, and
while inevitables have their own shared themes and features, they are very
much living but constructed manifestations of the aeons’ war against
imbalance—particularly with regard to how this war is waged against
the forces of chaos.
Aeons have a name for this cyclic return, in which they welcome
the industrious axiomites back to their fold and bring the inevitables
once again under their control: the “Convergence.” At the onset of the
Convergence, a council of pleroma aeons appeared in the Eternal City of
Axis, where they revealed that axiomites were wayward aeons, split off
long ago to pursue the act of creation. With the latest cycle of change it
was time for the axiomites and their creations, the inevitables, to rejoin
the aeon cause. While most axiomites and inevitables fell in line, realizing
perhaps on a fundamental level of reality that what the aeons said was the
truth, some refused to heed the call and waited for the wrath of the aeons­—
but that wrath has yet to come. The dual-natured aeons have responded
to those who have declined in confusing ways. With some they treat and
even bargain, while a handful of others they have destroyed, and a few
have been exterminated by the axiomites and allied inevitables. But most
of these quiet insurgents they leave alone, allowing these axiomites to
continue to create in peace and the inevitables to continue with their
duties. How—or if—this Convergence will end is as little understood as
the aeons themselves.
Arbiter
These spherical inevitables are scouts and diplomats. Found throughout
the multiverse, they have traditionally kept watch over on chaos and its
agents. With the announcement of the Convergence, many arbiters now
serve as go-betweens among the aeon alliance and its mortal associates.
ARBITER
CREATURE 1
LN
TINY
AEON
INEVITABLE
MONITOR
Perception +7; darkvision, detect alignment (chaotic only), locate inevitable
Languages Celestial, Common, Infernal, Utopian
Skills Acrobatics +9, Axis Lore +5, Diplomacy +6, Stealth +9
Str +1, Dex +4, Con +2, Int +0, Wis +2, Cha +1
Locate Inevitable An arbiter can always sense the direction of the nearest non-arbiter
inevitable on the plane, but it cannot sense the range of the inevitable.
Items shortsword
AC 16; Fort +5, Ref +7, Will +7; +1 status to all saves vs. magic
HP 22; Immunities death eﬀects, disease, emotion, poison, unconscious; Weaknesses
chaotic 3; Resistances electricity 3
Speed 20 feet, ﬂy 40 feet
AEON DIVINITIES
Whether the aeons serve an actual
divinity, a philosophical concept,
or merely a “supreme oneness” is
a topic hotly debated by planar
scholars. The aeons themselves
are silent, referring to this being or
concept as the Monad, a “condition
of all.” Regardless of what the
Monad actually is, there certainly
exists another category of powerful
aeons—the primal inevitables, each
a unique demigod with its own
powers and goals. Relatively few
primal inevitables remain today,
for nearly three-quarters of their
irreplaceable kind have fallen in the
endless battle with the inexorable
forces of entropy.
p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19668861
4425018
