p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19669104
4425261
O-R
251
Introduction
A-C
D
E-G
H-K
L-N
O-R
S-T
U-Z
Appendix
FILTH FLINGERS
Ofalths prefer to remain in their
middens and sewers, for in such
environs they have a constantly
renewing source of not only food,
but refuse to ﬂing at foes. An
ofalth encountered outside of
such wretched environs cannot
ﬂing rubbish as a ranged attack
unless it rips ﬁlth from its own
body. Each time it does so, it
takes 2d6 damage.
Ofalth
Found in castle dung heaps, city dumps, and sewers, ofalths are thought to be cousins
of shamblers. But whereas shamblers are living heaps of soggy vegetation, ofalths are
living heaps of matter from an altogether more unpleasant source: these monsters
look like 9-foot-tall amalgamations of wet detritus, sewage, and rubbish with long
tentacular arms and stout legs. It can be difﬁcult to tell where an ofalth’s body ends
and the foul contents of the cesspit they wallow within begins. They move through
refuse heaps in search of organic material in their endless quest to sate their hunger.
Though ofalths have a limited intellect, they still exhibit a vile curiosity. They
are no strangers to dissecting their prey after it has succumbed to their wasting
disease—a terrible and aptly named afﬂiction that causes the victim’s blood to
seep from its pores. When an ofalth manages to secure a victim alive, it may even
torture its food by consuming it bit by bit while it shrieks for mercy.
Ofalths’ domains typically overlap with those of otyughs, who fear ofalths, though
otyughs have also been known to band together in order to take down an ofalth for
its rubbery ﬂesh, which the otyughs consider an intoxicating delicacy. On the other
hand, ofalths seem to particularly enjoy taking otyughs apart one piece at a time.
They have been known to keep a captured otyugh alive for days or even weeks,
forcing the otyugh to endure the cloying scent of its own body decaying before the
ofalth feeds.
OFALTH
CREATURE 10
CE
LARGE
ABERRATION
Perception +18; darkvision
Languages Common (can’t speak any language)
Skills Athletics +23, Stealth +19 (+23 in trash and rubbish)
Str +7, Dex +3, Con +6, Int –2, Wis +2, Cha –2
Refuse Pile When it’s not in danger, an ofalth can spend 1 minute settling
into a 10-foot pile that looks like a heap of garbage. While doing so,
the ofalth gains a +2 circumstance bonus to AC but can’t use attack,
manipulate, or move actions. A creature that enters the area of the
garbage heap or interacts with it must attempt a save against
the ofalth’s putrid stench and wretched weeps disease. An
ofalth can leave this form using a single action.
AC 31; Fort +22, Ref +17, Will +18
HP 170, ﬁlth wallow; Immunities disease, poison
Putrid Stench (aura) 30 feet. A creature entering the
aura must succeed at a DC 28 Fortitude save or
become sickened 1 until the end of its turn (plus slowed
1 for as long as it is sickened on a critical failure).
While within the aura, an aﬀected creature takes
a –2 circumstance penalty to saves against disease and
to recover from the sickened condition. A creature that
succeeds at its save is temporarily immune for 1 minute.
Filth Wallow A ofalth gains fast healing 2 when in an area
with a high concentration of debris, junk, or excrement,
such as a refuse heap or sewer.
Speed 30 feet
Melee Ȱɵ ﬁst +23 (reach 10 feet), Damage 2d12+13 bludgeoning
plus wretched weeps
Ranged Ȱɵ ﬂing oﬀal +19 (range increment 30 feet), Damage
2d10+7 bludgeoning plus wretched weeps
Wretched Weeps (disease); Saving Throw DC 26 Fortitude;
Stage 1 carrier with no ill eﬀect (1 day); Stage 2 2d8
persistent bleed damage every hour and enfeebled 1
(1 day); Stage 3 2d8 persistent bleed damage every
hour and enfeebled 2 (1 day)
p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19669104
4425261
