p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19668879
4425036
Bestiary
26
ARCHON DIVINITIES
As with angels and azatas, the
most powerful of archons are
a caste of demigods known
collectively as empyreal lords.
Each archon empyreal lord is a
unique and powerful creature
that keeps a domain somewhere
in Heaven and is worshipped on
Material Plane worlds. Archon
divinities serve a variety of goals
and focus on diﬀerent aspects
of righteousness. Some, such as
Zohls, hold inﬂuence over the
pursuit of truth and determined
investigations, while others,
like Damerrich, the demigod
of executions, emphasize the
punishment of unrepentant
wrongdoers and seek to obliterate
evil in all its forms.
Archon
Archons are guardians of Heaven and enemies of chaos and evil. They openly
ﬁght back the spread of ﬁends but also quietly nurture the seeds of virtue within
mortals, teaching the denizens of the Material Plane how to act with honor and
integrity, enact just laws, and cast off sin and temptation.
Archons live in the immense seven-tiered mountain of Heaven. They manifest
in the Garden at the mountain’s peak from mortal souls who answer a mysterious
voice. There they swear to forever serve the cause of justice and transform into their
new archon forms. Intensely orderly in their metamorphosis, new archons begin
as lantern archons or other lesser forms, transforming into ever-greater archons
as their virtue and achievements grow. Each archon represents a particular virtue,
such as hope, charity, justice, or courage, and they gain strength in the presence of
mortals who exemplify this virtue. Due to their extremely lawful nature, archons
sometimes ﬁnd themselves at odds with azatas.
Lantern Archon
Friendly, curious, and eternally optimistic, lantern archons embody the virtue of
hope. They are formed of living light given corporeal shape, and they serve as
beacons, guiding mortals out of their darkest moments and toward the path of
righteousness. Their luminous bodies can ﬂicker with the subtlety of a candle
ﬂame or ﬂare up like a torch. Lantern archons can control all aspects of their light
as easily as other creatures control their facial expressions, leading them to change
color, twinkle, and otherwise dim and brighten in time
with their actions and words. While effervescent
and chipper in conversation, lantern archons are
impressively stoic mobile support troops and
guardians in times of conﬂict, and are capable
of uniting to form powerful warriors of light
called gestalts.
LANTERN ARCHON
CREATURE 1
LG
SMALL
ARCHON
CELESTIAL
Perception +6; darkvision
Languages Celestial, Draconic, Infernal
Skills Acrobatics +8, Diplomacy +6, Religion +6
Str –5, Dex +3, Con +1, Int –1, Wis +1, Cha +1
AC 16; Fort +6, Ref +10, Will +4
HP 20; Weaknesses evil 3; Resistances fire 3
Retributive Strike Ǻȓ A lantern archon can also
make a Retributive Strike with its light ray.
Speed ﬂy 40 feet
Ranged Ȱɵ light ray +8 (agile, good, ﬁre, magical,
range 30 feet), Damage 1d4 ﬁre plus 1d4 good
Divine Innate Spells DC 17; 4th read omens; 1st detect
alignment (at will; evil only), heal; Cantrips (1st) light
Gestalt ̂ˬ (concentrate, divine, transmutation) Nine lantern
archons can use this activity, all within 1 round of the ﬁrst, to merge together to form
a composite being for 7 rounds that appears as a glowing warrior of light. The gestalt
has the base statistics of a legion archon (AC, saving throws, attacks, skills, Speeds,
and so on) but the spells and special abilities of a lantern archon. Additionally, it has
a ranged light ray Strike (+18 attack, Damage 3d4 ﬁre and 3d4 good), and the bonus
from its Lantern of Hope increases to +3. When the gestalt separates, its remaining
Hit Points are divided evenly among the lantern archons, and if the gestalt had fewer
than 9 HP, some of the lantern archons die.
Lantern of Hope Ȱɵ (concentrate, divine, enchantment, mental) The lantern archon
shines as a beacon of hope. Good allies within 30 feet gain a +1 status bonus to
damage rolls and to saving throws against crushing despair.
p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19668879
4425036
