p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19669149
4425306
Bestiary
296
BORN OF SIN
Unable to procreate themselves,
sinspawn retreated from the world
for many centuries following the
collapse of the runelords’ empire, but
in recent years they have emerged
from ancient dungeons, strange
magical pools, and other forgotten
ruins. In certain cases, incredibly
powerful artifacts crafted by the
runelords known as runewells
can siphon oﬀ fragments of sinful
memories and emotions related to
the runewells’ associated sins from
the souls of people dying nearby,
fueling the spontaneous creation
of new sinspawn. When enough
sinful energies have been gathered
within a runewell, it vomits forth a
fully grown sinspawn with no prior
loyalty to a long-lost runelord. All
sinspawn inherently understand the
runewells’ role in the propagation of
their kind, and they often establish
small villages near awakened
runewells, hunting down sentient
beings they can use to propagate
their communities.
Sinspawn
Sinspawn were created by one of seven ancient wizards known collectively as
runelords—each of whom embraced and embodied one of seven sins. The ﬁrst
sinspawn was created by the Runelord of Wrath, utilizing techniques that have
since gone on to inﬂuence ﬂeshwarping practices (see ﬂeshwarp on page 158). It
wasn’t long before the technique used to create sinspawn fell into the hands of the
other runelords, and while each tried their own hand at crafting variants of their
own design, today sinspawn of wrath remain the most numerous and notorious
of their kind.
Bearing only a vague resemblance to the humanoids from whose ﬂesh they were
formed, sinspawn generally appear horriﬁcally emaciated and have unnaturally
long arms and digitigrade legs, each with a trio of stubby, taloned digits. Veins
bulge across sinspawn’s bodies in sanguine patterns that suspiciously resemble
twisted runes, and their ﬂesh is pale and hairless. Their heads are elongated,
bearing only slits for a nose, red eyes, and disturbing lower jaws that split in half
at the chin, revealing pedipalps that end in tiny, three-ﬁngered hands and framing
a long, lolling tongue.
Sinspawn stand 6-1/2 feet tall and typically weigh as much as an emaciated
human of their size. They behave in a manner consistent with their associated
sin and have physical characteristics that hint at these qualities. For example,
greedspawn’s veins appear to run with gold while envyspawn appear even more
wasted than the rest of their kin.
Sinspawn Sins
When a sinspawn is created, it becomes associated with one of the seven sins:
envoy, gluttony, greed, lust, pride, sloth, or wrath. A sinspawn’s sin is determined
by the runewell that spawned it or by its creator’s preferred sin, and cannot be
changed. Each sin grants sinspawn associated with it additional beneﬁts and
abilities beyond those described by the sinspawn stat block, as detailed below.
ENVYSPAWN
An envyspawn has Deception +7 and typically carries a halberd. They tend to be
shorter and thinner than other sinspawn.
Melee Ȱɵ halberd +10 (reach 10 feet, versatile S), Damage 1d10+4 piercing
Sinful Bite Creatures that critically fail their saves against an envyspawn’s sinful bite are
enfeebled 2 for 1 minute.
GLUTTONYSPAWN
A gluttonyspawn has Survival +10 and usually carries a scythe. They are obese,
but hardy and strong.
Melee Ȱɵ scythe +10 (deadly d10, trip), Damage 1d10+4 slashing
Sinful Bite Creatures that critically fail their saves against a gluttonyspawn’s sinful bite
are drained 1.
GReeDSPAWN
A greedspawn has Thievery +9 and typically wields a glaive. They are the tallest
of sinspawn, often 7 feet in height, and with gold-tinged veins.
[one-actionMelee Ȱɵ glaive +10 (deadly d8, forceful, reach 10 feet), Damage 1d8+4 slashing
Sinful Bite Creatures that critically fail their saves against a greedspawn’s sinful bite are
clumsy 2 for 1 minute.
LUSTSPAWN
A lustspawn has Diplomacy +7 and usually carries a guisarme. They have
attractive bodies, but hideous faces.
Melee Ȱɵ guisarme +10 (reach 10 feet, trip), Damage 1d10+4 slashing
Sinful Bite Creatures that critically fail their saves against a lustspawn’s sinful bite are
stupeﬁed 2 for 1 minute.
p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19669149
4425306
