p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19669120
4425277
O-R
267
Introduction
A-C
D
E-G
H-K
L-N
O-R
S-T
U-Z
Appendix
BORN FROM CHAOS
The Maelstrom, home of all
proteans, is the whirling mass
of turbulent primal energy,
planar waves, and soul-stuﬀ
that surrounds the Outer Planes.
Planar scholars theorize that all of
reality was originally formed from
the Maelstrom in the early days
of the cosmos—a theory proteans
don’t necessarily dispute.
Languages Abyssal, Protean
Skills Acrobatics +7, Deception +6, Religion +4, Stealth +7
Str –1, Dex +4, Con +0, Int –1, Wis –1, Cha +1
Entropy Sense (divination, divine, prediction) A voidworm can anticipate the most likely
presence of a creature through a supernatural insight into chaotic probabilities and
chance. This grants it the ability to sense creatures within the listed range. A creature
under the eﬀects of nondetection or that is otherwise shielded from divinations and
predictions cannot be noticed via entropy sense.
AC 17; Fort +5, Ref +9, Will +6
HP 16, fast healing 1; Resistances precision 3, protean anatomy 5
Protean Anatomy (divine, transmutation) A voidworm’s vital organs shift and change
shape and position constantly. Immediately after the voidworm takes acid, electricity,
or sonic damage, it gains the listed amount of resistance to that damage type. This lasts
for 1 hour or until the next time the protean takes damage of one of the other types (in
which case its resistance changes to match that type), whichever comes ﬁrst.
The voidworm is immune to polymorph eﬀects unless it is a willing target. If blinded
or deafened, the voidworm automatically recovers at the end of its next turn as new
sensory organs grow to replace the compromised ones.
Speed 20 feet, ﬂy 40 feet; freedom of movement
Melee Ȱɵ jaws +9 (chaotic, ﬁnesse, magical), Damage
1d8–1 piercing plus 1d4 chaotic
Melee Ȱɵ tail +9 (chaotic, ﬁnesse, magical), Damage 1d4–1
slashing plus 1d4 chaotic and confounding lash
Divine Innate Spells DC 16; 4th read omens; 2nd blur (self only),
obscuring mist; 1st detect alignment (at will; lawful only); Cantrips (4th)
dancing lights, ghost sound, prestidigitation; Constant (4th) freedom of movement
Change Shape Ȱɵ (concentration, divine, polymorph, transmutation) The voidworm takes
on the appearance of a Tiny animal. This doesn’t change its Speed or its attack and
damage bonuses with its Strikes, but might change the damage type its
Strikes deal.
Confounding Lash (divine, emotion, enchantment, mental) A
creature hit by the voidworm’s tail Strike is stupeﬁed 1 for 1
round (stupeﬁed 2 on a critical hit). A successful DC 16 Will
save negates this eﬀect and grants temporary immunity
to confounding lash for 1 minute.
Naunet
Pugnacious and powerfully muscled, naunets serve
as scouts and rank-and-ﬁle troops of protean armies.
Resembling a thick salamander with a wide head, a powerful tail, and
tentacles tipped with snapping jaws in place of rear legs, naunets are the
most bestial of the proteans and occupy one of their lowest castes. Naunets
are 12 feet long and weigh 900 pounds.
All proteans are prone to unpredictable ﬁts and unexpected action, but
compared to most others, naunets are much more bestial. Always ready
for a ﬁght, naunets pride themselves in acting swiftly and striking
before unpleasant distractions like diplomacy can blunt a
combat’s beginning.
NAUNET
CREATURE 7
CN
LARGE
MONITOR
PROTEAN
Perception +14; entropy sense (imprecise) 30 feet, darkvision
Languages Abyssal, Celestial, Protean
Skills Acrobatics +14, Athletics +16, Intimidation +16, Stealth +14, Survival +12
Str +5, Dex +3, Con +5, Int +0, Wis +3, Cha +3
Entropy Sense (divination, divine, prediction) As voidworm.
AC 24; Fort +18, Ref +14, Will +12; +1 status to all saves vs. magic
p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19669120
4425277
