p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19669118
4425275
O-R
265
Introduction
A-C
D
E-G
H-K
L-N
O-R
S-T
U-Z
Appendix
WHAT IS A KAMI?
The spirit creatures known
collectively as kami were originally
protectors of the natural world,
especially those things unable to
protect themselves. Over time,
though, their remit has grown,
and now kami protectors extend
their services to include artiﬁcial
structures and items. In theory,
any animal, plant, object, or
location could be served by its own
kami, but not everything has yet
been blessed with such protection.
The classiﬁcation of which objects
warrant kami protection—and
those that don’t—is confusing and
complicated to all save the kami,
who ﬁnd the organizational system
perfectly logical.
Poracha
Porachas are feline beasts native to the mystical Forest of Spirits in Tian Xia. In their
natural form, these graceful eight-legged creatures sport a gray tabby coat of fur
streaked with lines of olive green, but they are rarely seen this way. Even the youngest
porachas are capable of hiding within objects, making them incredibly elusive and
rarely seen except on their own terms. Because porachas can so effortlessly blend in
with the forest and emerge from its dark corners in an instant, superstitious locals
believe these beasts are related to kami—nature spirits who embody individual trees,
stones, or other elements of nature in the Forest of Spirits. The truth is that while
porachas frequently associate with kami, they are their own breed of mysterious
monster with powers over time and space that set them apart from nature spirits.
The poracha’s most iconic feature is its ability to bend reality to teleport, or jaunt,
short distances. But a poracha can also rest within objects, allowing it to safely sleep
inside. Given that a poracha experiences time very slowly while hiding within objects,
it can sleep inside of one for an extended period. Once it wakes, a poracha departs to
play in the living world. Porachas especially enjoy resting inside roadside milestones,
to maximize their chances of coming across travelers.
Porachas rarely tread humanoid-occupied lands, preferring the company of the
kami and their natural habitat in the Forest of Spirits. Though they enjoy occasional
conversation, they’re extremely sensitive to sound; they speak softly and request the
same from those they speak with. Their territories span vast swaths of the wood,
making them ideal allies for hunters or treasure seekers who would otherwise become
lost in the dense trees. But porachas are nothing if not ﬁckle, and typically demand
inscrutable favors in return for their aid, such as the planting of a rare sapling in a
particular grotto or the clearing of an invasive monster species around a treasured
spring. Any attempt to coerce or trick a poracha into service is ill advised, for these
sacred beasts have many friends among the kami as well as others of their kind.
Though they generally don’t travel in groups, porachas know where to ﬁnd more of
their kind in times of need, and an organized pack of porachas is a disorienting threat.
PORACHA
CREATURE 4
UNCOMMON
N
MEDIUM
BEAST
Perception +10; tremorsense (imprecise) 10 feet, darkvision
Languages Common, Sylvan
Skills Acrobatics +13, Athletics +9, Deception +11, Diplomacy +11, Stealth +13, Survival +10
Str +3, Dex +5, Con +3, Int +0, Wis +2, Cha +3
AC 23; Fort +9, Ref +13, Will +10
HP 50; Weaknesses sonic 5
Speed 40 feet
Melee Ȱɵ jaws +13 (ﬁnesse, magical), Damage 2d6+7 piercing
Melee Ȱɵ claw +13 (agile, ﬁnesse, magical), Damage 2d4+7 slashing
Jaunt Ȱɵ (conjuration, move, primal, teleportation) The
poracha teleports up to 40 feet. It must have line of
sight to the space it teleports to. It can’t use Jaunt
again for 1d4 rounds.
Object Meld ʚʖ (primal, transmutation)
The poracha touches an adjacent object
of enough volume to contain it. It merges
into the object indefinitely, and while it’s
inside, time moves exceptionally slowly for it and
it has only limited perception of the outside world.
The poracha can sense what’s going on outside the
object only using tremorsense. The poracha can use
only mental actions or Jaunt; if it Jaunts, it leaves
the object and appears where it chooses. If a
creature Strikes the object, the poracha is
expelled unharmed.
p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19669118
4425275
