p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19669043
4425200
Bestiary
190
INFAMOUS
GRAVEKNIGHTS
Several of Golarion’s most
notorious villains are graveknights.
The following examples are
among the world’s most infamous
graveknights at large, and may
inspire or serve as villains in your
own games.
Lictor Shokneir: Once the
Hellknight leader of the notorious
Order of the Crux, Lictor Shokneir
was disgraced when he refused
a royal order to disband his
army of butchers. The other
Hellknights surrounded him
and razed his castle, Citadel
Gheisteno, to the ground. However,
Shokneir’s determination sustains
his now-undead form, and he and
his undead legions have rebuilt the
citadel in all its haunting glory.
The Black Prince: Although the
graveknight known simply as
the Black Prince was redeemed
centuries ago as part of Iomedae’s
11 Acts, it is said that the prince’s
armor remains intact—and that
vile forces conspire to reclaim it.
If the armor is donned by one of
the Black Prince’s descendants,
the Inner Sea will be beset by a
terrible villain indeed.
Graveknight
Graveknights are undead warriors granted unlife by a cursed suit of armor.
Creating Graveknights
You can turn an existing, living creature into a graveknight by completing the
following steps. It’s best to build a graveknight from scratch, but if you don’t have
the time, simply apply the template. A creature should be at least level 5 before
being converted to a graveknight.
Increase the creature’s level by 1 and change its statistics as follows.
•	 Increase its attack rolls, AC, saving throws, Perception, and skills by 1, its HP
by 5, and its Strike damage by 1.
GRAVEKNIgHT ABILITIES
A graveknight gains the undead and graveknight traits, and its alignment is usually
adjusted to evil. It loses any abilities that come from it being a living creature and
any traits that represent its life, such as human and humanoid.
Darkvision
Negative Healing
Rejuvenation (divine, necromancy) When a graveknight is destroyed, its armor rebuilds
its body over the course of 1d10 days—or more quickly if the armor is worn by a living
host (see Graveknight Armor, below). If the body is destroyed before then, the process
restarts. A graveknight can only be permanently destroyed by obliterating its armor
(such as with disintegrate), transporting it to the Positive Energy Plane, or throwing it
into the heart of a volcano.
Immunities death eﬀects, disease, paralyzed, poison, precision, unconscious, plus one
energy type (the same chosen for ruinous weapons below).
Sacrilegious Aura (abjuration, aura, divine, evil) 30 feet. When a creature in the aura
uses a positive spell or ability, the graveknight automatically attempts to counteract
it, with the listed counteract modiﬁer.
Devastating Blast ʚʖ (arcane, evocation) The graveknight unleashes a 30-foot cone of
energy. Creatures in the area take 1d12 damage, plus an additional 1d12 damage for
every two levels the graveknight has (basic Reﬂex save). The graveknight can use
this ability once every 1d4 rounds. This energy damage is of the same type as that of
its ruinous weapons (see below); Devastating Blast gains the associated energy trait.
Phantom Mount ̂ˬ (arcane, conjuration, summon) The graveknight summons a
supernatural mount as per phantom steed, heightened to a level equal to half the
graveknight’s level. Unlike phantom steed, the steed’s AC and saving throw bonuses
are all 4 lower than the graveknight’s, and the steed has one-third the graveknight’s
Hit Points (rounded down). If the steed is destroyed, the graveknight must wait 1 hour
before using this ability again.
Ruinous Weapons At the time of its creation, a graveknight chooses one of the following
energy types that was relevant to its life or death: acid, cold, electricity, or ﬁre. Any
weapon the graveknight wields gains the eﬀects of the caustic, frost, shock, or ﬂaming
weapon rune, respectively, in addition to a +1 striking weapon rune. If the graveknight
is 14th level or higher, its weapons instead gain the eﬀects of the greater versions of
both of these runes.
Weapon Master The graveknight has access to the critical specialization eﬀects of any
weapons it wields.
ALTERNATE GRAVEKNIgHT ABILITIES
Although the abilities listed above are standard for a graveknight, you can create a
more unusual graveknight by substituting one of the aforementioned abilities (except
for its rejuvenation ability) with one of the following.
Betrayed Reviviﬁcation The graveknight died after being deeply betrayed. Instead
of being immune to a type of energy damage, it is immune to mental damage, its
weapons deal 1d6 additional mental damage, and its Devastating Blast deals mental
damage with a Will saving throw instead of Reﬂex.
p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19669043
4425200
