p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19669137
4425294
Bestiary
284
SATYR MUSIC
A satyr’s gear is valuable,
particularly his ﬁne panpipes.
Satyrs often stow caches of
alcohol, rich food, and pieces of
ﬁne art (especially erotic art) in
hollows and glades they frequent.
Depending on the type of music
they prefer to play, satyrs may
be able to cast diﬀerent 4th-level
enchantment spells, such as
paranoia or hideous laughter.
Satyr
To a satyr, life is a party and everyone is invited. Notorious for their hedonism,
these fey believe there’s no greater beauty than can be found in song, drink,
indulgent meals, and carnal pleasures. Satyrs use their enchanting songs and
natural charm to encourage all manner of people to follow their true desires and
free themselves from society’s rules. This usually involves enticing mortals to join
raucous parties or engage in trysts in moonlit glades. If a potential companion
rejects a satyr’s advances, however, the satyr has little interest in continuing a
conversation and goes off to ﬁnd more amenable revelers.
The lifestyle of a satyr leaves no room for ongoing affairs or long-term friends.
Once his party is over or his lust is satiated, the satyr disappears back into the
forest. The offspring satyrs leave behind are satyrs themselves, and usually end up
being taken from their cradles by other fey rather than being left in mortals’ care.
Satyrs are always male.
The untouched beauty of the forest is sacred and precious to a satyr. Brutish
intruders who clear-cut trees or massacre animals without eating them risk
drawing a satyr’s ire. A satyr so provoked uses his spells to undermine foes and
attempts to dispatch them either with brutal ambushes or by leading a rush of
forest animals to attack.
Other fey, particularly good fey, look upon satyrs as loutish, embarrassing
cousins. They’re rarely hostile toward satyrs, but most ﬁnd them insufferable and
advise any mortals they like to steer clear of satyrs’ glades.
SATYR
CREATURE 4
CN
MEDIUM
FEY
Perception +10; low-light vision
Languages Common, Sylvan
Skills Athletics +8, Deception +13, Diplomacy +13, Intimidation +11, Nature +9,
Performance +13, Stealth +11, Survival +8
Str +3, Dex +4, Con +1, Int +1, Wis +2, Cha +5
Items dagger, panpipes, shortbow (20 arrows), wineskin
Sylvan Wine (enchantment, mental, primal) A satyr’s wineskin
magically enchants any alcohol inside. With an Interact action,
a living creature can imbibe the alcohol and gain a +1 item
bonus to Will saves and a +3 item bonus to Will saves against fear
eﬀects for the following hour. When the wineskin is removed from a satyr’s
person, the magic remains only until the wine spoils. The wineskin holds up to
eight drafts of wine.
AC 19; Fort +9, Ref +11, Will +12
HP 80; Weaknesses cold iron 5
Speed 35 feet
Melee Ȱɵ dagger +14 (agile, ﬁnesse, versatile S), Damage 1d4+6 piercing
Ranged Ȱɵ shortbow +14 (deadly 1d10, range increment 60 feet, reload 0), Damage
1d6 +3 piercing
Ranged Ȱɵ dagger +14 (agile, thrown 10 feet, versatile S), Damage 1d4+6 piercing
Primal Innate Spells DC 21; 4th charm, fear, sleep, suggestion; Cantrips (2nd)
dancing lights, ghost sound, inspire competence (Core Rulebook 386), inspire courage
(Core Rulebook 386), triple time (Core Rulebook 387)
Fleet Performer When the satyr Plays the Pipes to cast a spell, he can Step or Stride as
part of the activity.
Play the Pipes ̂ˬ (auditory, primal); Requirements The satyr is holding a musical
instrument. Eﬀect The satyr plays a melody on his instrument to cast charm, fear,
sleep, or suggestion without expending the spell slot and using his music in place of
providing the spell’s component actions. The spell gains the auditory trait and targets
all creatures in a 60-foot emanation instead of its usual targets. A creature that
succeeds at its Will save against any spell is then temporarily immune from spells
played from that satyr’s pipes for 1 minute. Satyrs are immune to this music.
p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19669137
4425294
