p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19669070
4425227
L-N
217
Introduction
A-C
D
E-G
H-K
L-N
O-R
S-T
U-Z
Appendix
OTHER LAMIAS
Adventurers report encounters
with other varieties of lamia,
including immense versions
with the upper torsos of giants,
monstrosities driven by insatiable
hunger, or ﬂying buzzard-like
beasts with hardly any humanoid
features, yet all of these variants
bow to the wisdom and inﬂuence
of the lamia matriarchs.
form (at will), mirror image; 1st illusory disguise (at will), illusory object (at will),
ventriloquism (at will)
Lamia’s Caress ʚʖ (curse, enchantment, mental, occult) The lamia touches a creature,
who must succeed at a DC 23 Will save or become stupeﬁed 1. If the target fails
additional saves against this ability, the condition value increases by 1 (to a maximum
of stupeﬁed 4). This condition value decreases by 1 every 24 hours.
Lamia Matriarch
The brilliant and powerful lamia matriarchs possess boundless ambition, always
seeking to bring more people and territory into the clutches of their kind.
Consequently, the become rulers of other lamia. For all their cruelty toward
other creatures, they’re ﬁerce protectors of other lamia, and consequently they
quickly come to rule cults or warbands. Regardless of the lamia’s gender, these
ascended lamias are always known as matriarchs. Rather than leonine limbs,
a lamia matriarch’s lower body is formed in the winding coils of a giant
snake. They’re also set apart by the occult power they pursue, and some have
even have grand designs to break the animalistic curse that transformed
them. However, every attempt so far has led to the
matriarch’s fall.
LAMIA MATRIARCH
CREATURE 8
CE
LARGE
BEAST
Perception +15; darkvision
Languages Abyssal, Common, Draconic
Skills Athletics +18, Cult Lore +15, Deception +20, Diplomacy +20, Intimidation
+18, Occultism +17, Stealth +16, Survival +13
Str +6, Dex +4, Con +3, Int +3, Wis +3, Cha +6
Items +1 striking scimitar
AC 27; Fort +13, Ref +18, Will +17; +1 status to all saves vs. magic
HP 135; Immunities controlled; Resistances mental 10
Speed 30 feet, climb 30 feet, swim 30 feet
Melee Ȱɵ scimitar +19 (forceful +2, sweep), Damage 2d6+10 slashing
Occult Spontaneous Spells DC 28; 3rd (4 slots) dispel magic, enthrall,
haste, mind reading; 2nd (4 slots) blur, death knell, illusory creature,
invisibility; 1st (4 slots) bless, magic missile, phantom pain,
soothe; Cantrips (3rd) daze, detect magic, mage hand,
prestidigitation, read aura
Occult Innate Spells DC 28; 4th charm (×3), suggestion (×3), 3rd
sleep; 2nd illusory disguise (at will), illusory object (at will),
mirror image; 1st ventriloquism (at will)
Change Shape Ȱɵ
(concentrate,
occult,
polymorph,
transmutation) The lamia matriarch can take on the
appearance of a Medium humanoid. This doesn’t change
their Speed or their attack and damage modiﬁers with
their Strikes, but it does prevent them from using their
cursed touch. Each lamia matriarch has a ﬁxed humanoid form—
they cannot adopt a diﬀerent appearance each time they use this
ability, and the appearance resembles that of their upper torso
when in their true form.
Dervish Strike ̂ˬ The lamia matriarch makes a scimitar
attack against each enemy within reach. Each attack counts
toward their multiple attack penalty, but the penalty does
not increase until after all the attacks. The ﬁrst enemy she
damages is subject to matriarch’s caress.
Matriarch’s Caress ʚʖ (curse, enchantment, mental, occult) As
Lamia’s Caress, but DC 28, and the creature is stupeﬁed 2 (or has
its existing stupeﬁed increased by 2) if it critically fails.
p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19669070
4425227
