p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19668885
4425042
Bestiary
32
AZATA TREASURES
While azatas would like to think
they are above material wealth,
the truth is that most azatas adore
ﬁnery and displays of beauty or
grandeur. They might explain away
bejeweled weapons as necessary
tools against the forces of evil,
or the wild array of jewelry and
silks they wear as important
diplomatic tools.
Lillend (Muse Azata)
Lillends are tale-tellers, chroniclers, and champions of freedom of expression.
They are generally peaceful, but are quick to act if a masterful piece of art
is threatened or free speech is suppressed. They pride themselves on inspiring
mortals to greater heights of expression and creativity, and more than one bard
looks to a lillend as their personal inspiration. Lillends sometimes secretly
follow the adventures of mortal heroes to record their stories as epic poems
and songs, which they then perform in the packed mead halls of Elysium. When
pursuing such goals, lillends take pains to use their innate spells to remain in
hiding, as they would rather observe and record events without “polluting” them
with their own intervention. Nevertheless, a lillend who sees their charge faced
with certain death often cannot resist the urge to intervene and save the day.
Inevitably, this brings a close to the lillend’s chronicles, as their relationship with
their subject invariably shifts from one of detached observation to friendship
or more. Yet lillends remain hesitant to involve themselves for
overlong in a mortal’s life, in part because they fear what sort of
ﬁendish attention their presence might attract, but mostly out
of respect for the mortal’s own destiny. A lillend would, all
things being equal, prefer to let mortals choose their own
fate rather than run the risk of sending someone down
a path to which their heart is not set.
LILLEND
CREATURE 7
CG
LARGE
AZATA
CELESTIAL
Perception +16; darkvision
Languages Celestial, Draconic, Infernal; speak
with animals, speak with plants, tongues
Skills Acrobatics +14, Deception +16, Diplomacy
+18, Nature +14, Performance +20, Religion
+14, Survival +12
Str +4, Dex +3, Con +5, Int +2, Wis +3,
Cha +5
Items +1 longsword, virtuoso harp
AC 25; Fort +14, Ref +16, Will +16
HP 145; Weaknesses cold iron 10, evil 10
Free Expression A lillend’s auditory and
sonic eﬀects attempt to counteract
any eﬀect that would directly control,
manipulate, or prevent them from
expressing themself freely, such as
silence. She can also spend an action,
which has concentrate trait, to speak
forcefully and counteract such eﬀects.
Speed 25 feet, ﬂy 45 feet
Melee Ȱɵ longsword +18 (chaotic,
magical, versatile P), Damage 1d8+10
slashing plus 1d6 chaotic and 1d6 good
Melee Ȱɵ tail +18 (agile, magical, reach 10 feet),
Damage 2d6+10 bludgeoning plus 1d6 chaotic,
1d6 good, and Grab
Divine Innate Spells DC 26; 4th counter
performance, hallucinatory terrain, heal, inspire
heroics, sound burst, suggestion; 3rd sleep; 2nd
darkness, invisibility; 1st charm; Cantrips (4th)
daze, detect magic, ghost sound, inspire competence,
inspire courage, light; Constant (5th) tongues; (4th)
speak with plants; (2nd) speak with animals
p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19668885
4425042
