p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19668886
4425043
A-C
33
Introduction
A-C
D
E-G
H-K
L-N
O-R
S-T
U-Z
Appendix
OTHER AZATAS
The wilds of Elysium play host
to a wide array of azatas, the
most varied and widespread of
the celestials. From the four-
eyed mothlike uinuja to the
supernaturally verdant and
beautiful veranallia, whose lower
body is a wondrous garden of
wildﬂowers and plant life, azatas
are nothing if not diverse!
Ghaele (Crusader Azata)
Ghaeles are ﬁend-hunting knights of Elysium and champions of the freedom to take
up arms against oppressors and other evils. Ghaeles rarely engage directly in mortal
wars, but where ﬁends are involved they make an exception. A ghaele might assume
the guise of a mortal to ﬁght ﬁends alongside others, hoping to bolster morale and
teach good tactics against such supernatural foes. Ghaeles serve various deities and
empyreal lords of Elysium, though many have an afﬁnity for Cayden Cailean in
his capacity as a champion of freedom and defender of the downtrodden. Among
azatas, ghaeles are generally the quickest to shift to violence as a method of solving
problems, but even then they seek to minimize pain and suffering when they can.
GHAELE
CREATURE 13
CG
MEDIUM
AZATA
CELESTIAL
Perception +25; darkvision, see invisibility
Languages Celestial, Draconic, Infernal; tongues
Skills Acrobatics +27, Athletics +26, Diplomacy +26 Nature +23, Religion +23,
Stealth +21, Warfare Lore +26
Str +7, Dex +4, Con +5, Int +3, Wis +4, Cha +5
Items +1 greatsword
AC 34; Fort +26, Ref +20, Will +23
HP 235; Weaknesses cold iron 15, evil 15; Resistances energy 15 (see
Choose Weakness)
Free Blade Ȳ˓ Trigger The ghaele ends its turn while unable to act or
attempts a greatsword Strike that would take a circumstance or
status penalty. Eﬀect A ghaele’s blade is implacable in the pursuit
of freedom, and its energies can overpower any eﬀect that would
interfere with its swordplay. The ghaele attempts to counteract
each eﬀect that prevents it from making a greatsword Strike, gives
it a penalty to its greatsword Strike, or prevents it from acting. The
ghaele can use this ability even if it’s otherwise unable to act.
Light Form A ghaele’s body is partially corporeal and partially composed
of light, with a color corresponding to the elemental energy currently
residing in its blade (see Choose Weakness). It can move through solid
objects but can’t end its action within a solid object.
Speed 35 feet, ﬂy 100 feet
Melee Ȱɵ holy greatsword +28 (good, magical, versatile P), Damage
2d12+13 slashing plus 1d6 good and 1d6 other (see Choose Weakness)
Ranged Ȱɵ light ray +25 (chaotic, good, light, range 300 feet), Damage
1d12 chaotic plus 1d12 good plus 2d6+6 other (see Choose Weakness)
Divine Innate Spells DC 33; 7th chromatic wall, dispel magic, heal, prismatic
spray; 6th illusory scene; 5th banishment; 4th heal (×4), invisibility (at will;
self only), restoration; 3rd mind reading; 2nd continual ﬂame (at will), dispel
magic (at will); 1st charm, detect alignment (at will; evil only), illusory disguise
(at will); Cantrips (7th) dancing lights, detect magic, light; Constant (7th) see
invisibility; (5th) tongues
Divine Rituals DC 33; resurrect
Choose Weakness Ȱɵ (concentrate, divination, divine, evocation, manipulate) A
ghaele attempts to Recall Knowledge about a foe it is facing. If successful, it
can change the elemental damage dealt by its greatsword and light ray to acid,
cold, electricity, ﬁre, or sonic, usually to match the a foe’s weakness. It can also
change its energy resistance to any of these energy types (this can be a diﬀerent
type than for its attacks). The choices remain until it next uses Choose Weakness.
Ghaele’s Gaze Ȱɵ (divine, evocation, visual) When a ghaele ﬁxes its gaze upon a non-good
creature, the creature suﬀers the eﬀects of divine decree (DC 33 Will save). If it survives,
the creature is temporarily immune to Ghaele’s Gaze for 1 minute.
Holy Blade (divine, evocation) Any weapon becomes a +2 holy striking weapon
while the ghaele wields it.
p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19668886
4425043
