p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19669101
4425258
Bestiary
248
OTHER NYMPHS
Naiads and dryads are the most well-
known nymphs, but others exist as
well. Hesperides, for example, are
wards of the sunset and golden light
and can be encountered dwelling on
coastal cliﬀsides or remote islands.
Lampads, on the other hand, are
dark, moody nymphs found in
wondrous,
crystal-lined
caverns
deep underground.
Focus Beauty Ȱɵ (emotion, enchantment, mental, primal, visual) The nymph queen
focuses her beauty upon a target within her aura. The creature must attempt a
Will save. On a failure, it is affected as if by the nymph queen’s nymph’s beauty
aura; if it was already affected by the aura, it suffers a greater effect described in
the nymph queen’s entry. A nymph queen can Focus Beauty on a given creature
only once per turn.
Inspiration ̂ˬ (emotion, enchantment, mental, primal) A nymph queen can inspire a
single intelligent creature by giving that creature a token of her favor, typically a lock
of her hair. As long as the creature carries her token and remains in good standing
with the nymph queen, the creature gains a +1 status bonus to all Crafting checks,
Performance checks, and Will saves.
If a nymph queen grants her Inspiration to a bard and the nymph queen is that bard’s
muse, the bard gains an additional beneﬁt depending on their muse theme: for lore muse,
the bard also gains a +1 status bonus to all Lore checks; for maestro muse, the status
bonus to Performance checks increases to +2 for the purpose of determining the eﬀects
of compositions; for polymath muse, the bard gains a +4 status bonus to untrained skill
checks; and for all other muses, the Will save bonus increases to +2 against fey.
Nymph’s Beauty (aura, emotion, enchantment, mental, primal, visual) 30 feet. Creatures
that start their turn in the aura must succeed at a Will save or suﬀer an eﬀect
described in the nymph queen’s entry.
Tied to the Land A nymph queen is intrinsically tied to a speciﬁc region, such as a forest
for a dryad queen. As long as the queen is healthy, the environment is exceptionally
resilient, allowing the nymph queen to automatically attempt to counteract spells and
rituals such as blight that would harm the environment, using her Spell DC with a
counteract level equal to the highest-level druid spell she can cast. When the nymph
queen becomes physically or psychologically unhealthy, however, her warded region
eventually becomes twisted or unhealthy as well. In that case, restoring the nymph
queen swiftly heals the entire region.
Naiad Queen
Naiad queens rule over pristine wildernesses centered on untouched lakes or other
bodies of fresh water. Bards’ songs and artists’ paintings of nymphs tend to depict
naiad queens in their slightly more humanoid forms, which they don when they
make the rare journey into civilized lands to garner allies or gauge threats.
Most naiad queens treat those who respect their domains with kindness, but
they are ﬁerce and quick in eliminating foes. Their blinding beauty and breadth of
offensive spells make naiad queens ﬁerce opponents if forced into a ﬁght.
NAIAD QUEEN
CREATURE 7
UNCOMMON
CG
MEDIUM
AMPHIBIOUS
FEY
NYMPH
WATER
Perception +18; low-light vision, speak with animals
Languages Common, Elven, Sylvan
Skills Acrobatics +16, Athletics +9 (+13 to Swim), Diplomacy +20, Medicine +15, Nature
+15, Performance +20, Stealth +14, Survival +15
Str +0, Dex +5, Con +4, Int +3, Wis +4, Cha +7
Tied to the Land
Wild Empathy As naiad
AC 26; Fort +15, Ref +18, Will +17
HP 100; Weaknesses cold iron 10; Resistances ﬁre 10
Nymph’s Beauty (aura, emotion, enchantment, mental, primal, visual) 30 feet. DC 23. On a
failed save, the target is stunned 1 for this turn and whenever it begins its turn within 30
feet of the naiad queen for the next 24 hours, even if it can’t see her on subsequent turns.
Speed 25 feet, swim 25 feet
Melee Ȱɵ aqueous ﬁst +17 (agile, ﬁnesse, magical, water), Damage 2d6+6 bludgeoning
Primal Prepared Spells DC 28, attack +18; 4th heal, summon animal; 3rd earth bind,
haste, heal; 2nd animal messenger, faerie ﬁre, tree shape; 1st ﬂeet step, gust of wind,
negate aroma; Cantrips (4th) detect magic, guidance, light, ray of frost, stabilize
p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19669101
4425258
