p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19669133
4425290
Bestiary
280
ANCIENT REMORHAZES
A remorhaz has an unusual life
cycle. A remorhaz that survives
long enough (typically a century)
without succumbing to violence
melts a deep hole in the ice and
hibernates for several hundred
years, growing slowly as its internal
heat sources transform it into
something new—a creature known
as a frost worm.
Remorhaz
A remorhaz is an enormous arctic predator that resembles a multilegged insect
with draconic features. This monster has chitinous plates and more than a score
segmented legs, a multipartite maw, and winglike growths ﬂanking its head. The
most unusual aspect of the creature, however, is its internal heat, which burns
with such intensity that it causes the armored plates on the creature’s back to
become superheated whenever the beast is agitated.
Remorhazes are carnivores. Their diet includes arctic animals such as elk, but
a hungry remorhaz readily devours anything it can catch and kill. It commonly
lurks beneath ice or snow and ambushes prey with a sudden upward strike. Many
victims die before even knowing what attacked them.
Those who survive the worm’s initial onslaught must face not only its deadly
jaws, but also its hideously hot body. This heat can melt weapons, scorch armor, and
burn ﬂesh—all tactics the remorhaz uses to disable and defeat its foes. A remorhaz’s
internal ﬁre allows it to burrow through ice and snow with ease. It leaves smooth
tunnels in its wake as melted ice refreezes to leave the telltale signs of its passage.
Most people underestimate a remorhaz’s intelligence, assuming it to be a mere
animal. However, remorhazes are capable of learning languages. Frost giants in
particular use this trait to form alliances with them. The giants provide food,
protection, and shelter for the worm, and in return the remorhaz acts as a guard
beast and helps the giants build fortresses and forge metal weapons. The giants also
employ the worms as war beasts, using them to undermine enemy positions.
REMORHAZ
CREATURE 7
UNCOMMON
N
HUGE
BEAST
Perception +14; darkvision, tremorsense (imprecise) 60 feet
Languages Jotun (can’t speak any language)
Skills Athletics +18, Stealth +13
Str +7, Dex +2, Con +5, Int –3, Wis +1, Cha –2
AC 25; Fort +18, Ref +15, Will +10
HP 120; Immunities cold, ﬁre
Heat (aura, evocation, ﬁre, primal) 5 feet. A creature that starts its turn in the aura
takes 1d6 ﬁre damage. Whenever the remorhaz takes damage from an enemy, this
damage increases to 2d6 until the start of its next turn. Any creature that hits a
remorhaz with an unarmed Strike takes 2d6 ﬁre damage, and a weapon that hits a
remorhaz takes 2d6 ﬁre damage.
Speed 35 feet, burrow 30 feet
Melee Ȱɵ jaws +18 (reach 15 feet), Damage 2d10+9 piercing plus Grab
Melee Ȱɵ tail +18 (ﬁre, reach 15 feet), Damage 1d10+3 bludgeoning plus 2d6
ﬁre
Breath Weapon ʚʖ (evocation, ﬁre, primal) The remorhaz
unleashes a gout of ﬂame that deals 8d6 ﬁre damage in
a 30-foot cone (DC 26 basic Reﬂex save). It can’t use
Breath Weapon again for 1d4 rounds.
Ice Tunneler A remorhaz can leave a tunnel
when it burrows through ice or snow, and it
usually does.
Swallow Whole Ȱɵ
Large,
2d8+5
bludgeoning plus 2d6 ﬁre, Rupture 12
Thrash ʚʖ The remorhaz Strikes once
with its jaws and once with its tail,
each targeting a diﬀerent creature.
Each attack counts toward the
remorhaz’s multiple attack penalty,
but the multiple attack penalty
doesn’t increase until after all the
attacks have been made.
p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19669133
4425290
