p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19669038
4425195
E-G
185
Introduction
A-C
D
E-G
H-K
L-N
O-R
S-T
U-Z
Appendix
ALCHEMICAL GOLEMS
When an alchemical golem is
defeated or disabled, if any of its
ﬁrst four alchemical chambers
(1–4) remain intact, the chamber
can be salvaged and used as a
lesser alchemical bomb of the
corresponding type: acid ﬂask,
frost vial, bottled lightning, or
alchemist's ﬁre, respectively.
attempt to create from simple base elements, these monstrosities are far from
human. In isolated cases, echoes of a personality might rise in a ﬂesh golem if
the brain used as part of its construction belonged to a particularly powerful
personality, but such tragic instances are (thankfully) rare in the extreme.
FLESH GOLEM
CREATURE 8
UNCOMMON
N
LARGE
CONSTRUCT
GOLEM
MINDLESS
Perception +12; darkvision
Skills Athletics +19
Str +5, Dex –1, Con +3, Int –5, Wis +0, Cha –5
AC 26; Fort +18, Ref +14, Will +15
HP 140; Immunities bleed, disease, death eﬀects, electricity, doomed, drained, fatigued,
healing, magic (see below), mental, necromancy, nonlethal attacks, paralyzed,
poison, sickened, unconscious; Resistances physical 5 (except adamantine)
Berserk A severely damaged ﬂesh golem has a chance of going berserk. If it has 40 or
fewer HP at the start of its turn, the golem must succeed at a DC 5 ﬂat check or go
berserk. A berserk golem wildly attacks the nearest living creature, or the nearest
object if no creatures are nearby.
Golem Antimagic harmed by ﬁre (5d8, 3d4 from areas or persistent damage); healed by
electricity (area 2d4 HP); slowed by cold
Vulnerable to Flesh to Stone Casting a ﬂesh to stone spell on the ﬂesh golem aﬀects
the golem normally.
Electric Reﬂexes Ǻȓ Trigger The golem takes electricity damage and a creature is
adjacent to it. Eﬀect The golem lashes out and tries to grab a nearby creature. The
golem attempts an Athletics check to Grapple an adjacent creature. The creature
also takes 3d6 electricity damage on a success, or 6d6 electricity damage on a
critical success.
Speed 25 feet
Melee Ȱɵ ﬁst +20 (magical, reach 10 feet), Damage 2d10+7 bludgeoning
Berserk Slam Ȱɵ Requirement The ﬂesh golem is berserk. Eﬀect The ﬂesh golem Strikes
with its ﬁst at a –1 circumstance penalty. If it hits, it deals 1d6 extra damage and
knocks the target prone.
Alchemical Golem
This golem is a walking alchemical nightmare capable of inﬂicting all
manner of painful wounds. Its ability to follow orders is granted
by the otherwise mindless humanoid brain that ﬂoats in its
dome-like head. In exceptionally rare cases, the brain used
in its creation might retain fragments of memories or
even actual intellect, resulting in an alchemical golem
with a personality and agenda of its own.
ALCHEMICAL GOLEM
CREATURE 9
UNCOMMON
N
LARGE
ALCHEMICAL
CONSTRUCT
GOLEM
MINDLESS
Perception +15; darkvision
Skills Athletics +22
Str +6, Dex +4, Con +3, Int –5, Wis +0, Cha –5
AC 27; Fort +20, Ref +19, Will +15
HP 150; Immunities acid, bleed, death eﬀects, disease, doomed, drained, fatigued,
healing, magic (see below), mental, necromancy, nonlethal attacks, paralyzed, poison,
sickened, unconscious; Resistances physical 12 (except adamantine or bludgeoning)
Alchemical Chambers An alchemical golem’s body contains six alchemical chambers ﬁlled
with diﬀerent substances. When an alchemical golem ability calls upon a randomly
determined alchemical eﬀect, roll 1d6 and consult the following (if you roll the result of
a chamber that was shattered, there is no alchemical eﬀect):
1 acid damage; 2 cold damage; 3 electricity damage; 4 ﬁre damage; 5 poison damage;
6 sickness: DC 26 Fortitude save or sickened 1 (sickened 2 on a critical failure)
p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19669038
4425195
