p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19669188
4425345
U-Z
335
Introduction
A-C
D
E-G
H-K
L-N
O-R
S-T
U-Z
Appendix
DREAD WRAITHS
Dread wraiths are much more
powerful variants of the standard
wraith. A dread wraith is a
9th‑level creature that can drain
the life from creatures via its
mere presence. Often, a dread
wraith commands a small group
of normal wraiths, and in life may
have been a bloodthirsty warlord
or brutal general.
Wraith
Wraiths are malevolent undead who drain life and shun light. Their shadowy,
incorporeal forms are dotted with burning eyes that reﬂect their hatred for the
living, and shadowy claws are weapon enough to steal the vitality from their
enemies. A wraith may be created by foul necromancy, but more often they are
the result of a hermitic murderer or mutilator who even in death could not give up
their wicked ways. Further complicating the matter is the fact that wraiths multiply
by consuming and transforming the living into more of their foul kind—meaning a
handful of wraiths left unchecked can easily turn into a horde of darkness.
Wraiths weigh nothing and are unharmed by most physical attacks. They haunt
any place where they can feed on the living, though their vulnerability to sunlight
conﬁnes them to the shadowy places of the world—places where they can blend
in seamlessly with their dark surroundings before silently engulﬁng their prey.
Wraiths may form packs with others of their kind in places where death
and mayhem are commonplace—countrysides ravaged by war, metropolitan
underworlds run by criminal overlords, or sites of ﬁendish cultic rituals. In these
places, the living do well to tread with sunrods and powerful clerics in tow. Ruins,
sewers, and abandoned buildings provide sanctuary for wraiths during the day, as
the creatures hunt exclusively at night or in dark places. Wraiths are smart enough
to take advantage of their incorporeality in combat, so they keep to tortuous
caverns or structures with hallways and avoid open areas.
As they’re formed purely of anti-life from the Negative Energy Plane, wraiths
pervade that unholy realm. Within nations and civilizations ruled by the undead,
wraiths have places of power as assassins and spies. They’re among the ruling class in
Geb, but have greater numbers in Ustalav, where packs of wraiths roam graveyards
and misty trails, consuming the populations of entire villages. In other parts of
the world, wraiths tend not to wander and limit their activity to smaller environs,
typically just the site of their chosen haunting and its immediate surroundings.
WRAITH
CREATURE 6
LE
MEDIUM
INCORPOREAL
UNDEAD
WRAITH
Perception +14; darkvision, lifesense 60 feet
Languages Common, Necril
Skills Acrobatics +14, Intimidation +15, Stealth +14
Str –5, Dex +4, Con +0, Int +2, Wis +2, Cha +5
Lifesense (divination, divine) Wraiths sense the vital essence of living and undead
creatures within the listed range.
AC 24; Fort +8, Ref +14, Will +14; +1 status to all saves vs. positive
HP 80, negative healing; Immunities death eﬀects, disease, paralyzed,
poison, precision, unconscious; Resistances all 5 (except force, ghost
touch, or positive; double resistance vs. non-magical)
Sunlight Powerlessness A wraith caught in sunlight is stunned 2 and
clumsy 2.
Attack of Opportunity Ǻȓ
Speed ﬂy 40 feet
Melee Ȱɵ spectral hand +17 (ﬁnesse), Damage 2d8+5 negative plus drain life
Drain Life (divine, necromancy) When the wraith damages a living
creature with its spectral hand Strike, the wraith gains 5 temporary
Hit Points and the creature must succeed at a DC 23 Fortitude save
or become drained 1. Further damage dealt by the wraith increases
the amount of drain by 1 on a failed save to a maximum of drained 4.
Wraith Spawn (divine, necromancy) A living humanoid slain by a wraith’s
spectral hand Strike rises as a wraith spawn after 1d4 rounds. This wraith
spawn is under the command of the wraith that killed it. It doesn’t have drain life or
wraith spawn and becomes clumsy 2 for as long as it is a wraith spawn. If the creator
of the wraith spawn dies, the wraith spawn becomes a full-ﬂedged, autonomous
wraith; it regains its free will, gains Wraith Spawn, and is no longer clumsy.
p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19669188
4425345
