p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19668983
4425140
Bestiary
130
DRAKE ECOLOGY
Drakes reach maturity and
reproduce much earlier than
dragons, meaning that they are a
far more common threat than their
more powerful forebears. Drakes
have few qualms about dwelling
with one another (provided they
are the same species), often
establishing dens in pockets of
wilderness suitable to their needs,
such as swampy grottoes, shallow
shoreline caves, or cliﬀside perches.
Drake
Ravenous, bestial, and driven by instinct—drakes are primitive draconic monsters
who bear a fraction of the terrifying might of their larger cousins but little (if any)
of the cunning. While they’re weaker, slower, and less inclined toward reason than
dragons, drakes are nonetheless a menace to creatures and settlements around
them. Their propensity for forming raiding parties—small social groups ﬁttingly
called “rampages”—makes them all the more dangerous; a single rampage of
river drakes can quickly lay waste to a waterside village, and roving rampages of
desert drakes are a plague to caravan traders.
Drakes share a number of physical characteristics that unite them as one
species despite their wide variety of habitats and abilities. For example, drakes
lack forearms, leaving them only their formidable jaws and thick-scaled tails
with which to attack if engaged at melee range. Most drakes would rather avoid
close combat, however, preferring to use their breath weapons to wreak havoc in
wide swaths from comfortable distances while ﬂying overhead. Finally, all drakes
have small reservoirs of their ancestral draconic power that they can tap into to
perform incredible feats of speed.
Drake Eggs
While drake hides aren’t any more valuable than those of other, similarly sized
creatures, drake eggs are prized commodities. While they are used as components
in powerful spells as well as eaten by various cultures, the most common use for
drake eggs is hatching and rearing drakes to serve as mounts and guardians.
A typical drake lays a clutch of 2d4 eggs every 5 years. Eggs hatch within 3
to 6 weeks, during which time they must be kept in conditions appropriate to
their natural environment, perhaps the most difﬁcult aspect of drake husbandry.
While it is generally easy for breeders to incubate the eggs of desert or jungle
drakes (which require mildly warm temperatures to hatch) or river drakes
(which must be submerged in running water), the eggs of ﬂame and frost
drakes require extreme temperatures in order to hatch, which can be difﬁcult
to replicate safely.
A drake egg has Hardness 3, 5 HP, and BT 5. The
coloration of drake eggs varies only slightly
from one species to the next. A creature
must succeed at a DC 20 Nature check,
or a relevant DC 20 Lore check, to
identify the drake species of a
speciﬁc egg.
Once
a
drake
hatches, it imprints
on the ﬁrst creature
that it sees. A creature imprinted on in
this way gains a +5 bonus to Nature
checks to train or command that
drake. The market price of a drake
egg varies depending on the region, the type
of drake, and the exact purpose the buyer has
in mind, but typically depends on the level of
the drake. Because drakes are evil, dangerous,
and intelligent creatures, many societies do not
condone the trade of drake eggs and criminalize
those who engage in it.
It takes 2 years for a drake hatchling to grow to full
size. A well-trained drake can make a fearsome mount
or guardian, but many careless would-be drake trainers
are devoured by their charges due to cruelty, overconﬁdence,
or general lack of skill.
p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19668983
4425140
