p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19669083
4425240
Bestiary
230
LIZARDFOLK RELATIONS
Though most are neutral in
alignment, the typical iruxi’s pride
in their traditions, suspicion of
others, and need to protect their kin
can make them seem standoﬃsh or
even aggressive when encountered.
However, most are eager to learn
from visitors, trade stories
and equipment, and
forge alliances.
Lizardfolk
When human scholars speak of ancient civilizations, they usually turn their
focus to themselves, researching and lecturing on the ﬁrst human empires.
When they drift to others, they invariably look to cultures that had conﬂicts
or alliances with ancient humanity. That the culture of the people called
lizardfolk often gets ignored or forgotten even by well-meaning researchers is
thus no surprise, but to the lizardfolk themselves it is no matter. They know
their history and value its integrity and privacy—if younger ancestries like
humanity aren’t interested in learning from lizardfolk empires dating back
to before the ﬁrst human knocked two rocks together to make their ﬁrst
campﬁre, that’s ﬁne with them.
The word “lizardfolk” is an excellent example of humanity’s narrow-
sighted view of this culture. The name of their people is “iruxi,”
but these reptilian humanoids have patiently and
good-naturedly accepted the name “lizardfolk” as
a variant, and they generally resist urges
to call humans and other mammalians
similarly derivative names in return.
Iruxis dwell and thrive in all
tropical and temperate biomes, but
they are most at home in swamplands,
coastal regions, and riverlands, for they
are talented swimmers, and ﬁsh and
aquatic plants make up a large part of their
preferred diets.
Lizardfolk Defender
The lizardfolk defender serves as a protector of the young,
guardian of the settlement, and when no other options are available,
soldier in time of war. They eagerly rise to the defense of their kin but
do not revel in battle. An iruxi defender would rather turn back intruders
and allow them to ﬂee with the knowledge they were beaten, in hopes that
such word prevents further invasions, but they are not naive. The iruxi
understand the need for revenge, and when they allow a foe to escape,
they do not forget.
LIZARDFOLK DEFENDER
CREATURE 1
N
MEDIUM
HUMANOID
LIZARDFOLK
Perception +7
Languages Draconic, Iruxi
Skills Acrobatics +5, Athletics +6, Survival +5
Str +3, Dex +2, Con +3, Int –1, Wis +2, Cha +0
Items ﬂail, javelin (3), wooden shield (Hardness 3, HP 12, BT 6)
AC 16 (18 with shield raised); Fort +8, Ref +7, Will +5
HP 21
Attack of Opportunity Ǻȓ
Shield Block Ǻȓ
Speed 25 feet, swim 15 feet
Melee Ȱɵ ﬂail +8 (disarm, sweep, trip), Damage 1d6+3 bludgeoning
Melee Ȱɵ jaws +8, Damage 1d6+3 piercing
Melee Ȱɵ tail +8 (agile), Damage 1d4+3 bludgeoning
Ranged Ȱɵ javelin +7 (thrown 30 feet), Damage 1d6+3 piercing
Deep Breath A lizardfolk defender can hold their breath for 175 rounds
(17-1/2 minutes).
Terrain Advantage Non-lizardfolk creatures in diﬃcult terrain and non-
lizardfolk creatures that are in water and lack a swim Speed are ﬂat-footed
to the lizardfolk defender.
p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19669083
4425240
