p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19669189
4425346
Bestiary
336
XULGATH TREASURE
Xulgaths are relatively primitive,
using tools and weapons of stone
and other materials scavenged
from the surface. These can
replicate most simple and a few
martial melee weapons, as well as
simple thrown ranged weapons.
An advanced tribe of xulgaths
might be able to craft low-level
magical talismans, such as a
potency crystal or a
returning clasp.
Xulgath
Reptilian humanoids who live in the uppermost reaches of the Darklands, xulgaths
(known as troglodytes to many surface-dwelling folk) often attack intruders in
their territory on sight. They live in simple familial communities, battling rival
groups and other aggressive Darklands inhabitants in order to survive. They
occasionally raid surface settlements, usually at the behest of cruel, bloodthirsty
leaders who are often themselves in the thrall of more powerful creatures like
nagas or demons. A typical xulgath has dull gray, dark gray, or ashen scales, with
a long tail and bony protrusions that run the length of its spine. A typical xulgath
is 5 feet tall and weighs 150 pounds.
Although today the xulgaths are brutal and scattered, they were one of the ﬁrst
intelligent humanoids to rise in the primeval world, once ruling over a mighty
empire that stretched throughout the Darklands. Today, all that remains of this
era are ruins of massive stone ziggurats and crumbling cities found within some
of the larger caverns. Some groups of xulgaths continue to live among these ruins,
venerating their ancestors’ accomplishments, while others consider these areas
taboo and leave them to become infested with Darklands vermin. Sages don’t
agree on why the ancient xulgath civilization fell. Some suspect it was the result
of a loss of several wars waged against serpentfolk, while others suggest that the
corruptive inﬂuence of demon worship rotted their culture from within.
Certainly, many xulgath settlements continue to worship demons to this
day, paying homage and offering live sacriﬁces to terrible creatures from
the Abyss. Occasionally, a xulgath shaman can call forth and bind a lesser
demon to help serve the group, but a shaman who delves too deep into
occultism might summon a more powerful ﬁend that either tears the
xulgaths to pieces or enslaves them.
Xulgath Warrior
Xulgath warriors strike with fury and eager cruelty, always ready for
the next ﬁght. The taking of prizes from battle—including weapons and
items stolen from defeated foes along with grislier trophies harvested
from fallen victims’ ﬂesh—is a popular pursuit among these vicious
reptiles, and those whose armor and scales are most adorned are
awarded the greatest respect (and perhaps fear) from their kin.
XULGATH WARRIOR
CREATURE 1
CE
MEDIUM
HUMANOID
XULGATH
Perception +6; darkvision
Languages Draconic, Undercommon
Skills Athletics +7, Stealth +5
Str +4, Dex +2, Con +3, Int –1, Wis +1, Cha +0
Items club, javelin (3)
AC 16; Fort +8, Ref +7, Will +4
HP 21
Stench (aura, olfactory) 30 feet. A creature that enters the area
must attempt a DC 16 Fortitude save. On a failure, the creature is
sickened 1, and on a critical failure, the creature also takes a –5-foot
status penalty to its Speeds for 1 round. While within the aura,
the creature takes a –2 circumstance penalty to saves to recover
from the sickened condition. A creature that succeeds at its save
is temporarily immune to all xulgaths’ stenches for 1 minute.
Speed 25 feet
Melee Ȱɵ club +9, Damage 1d6+4 bludgeoning
Melee Ȱɵ jaws +9, Damage 1d6+4 piercing
Melee Ȱɵ claw +9 (agile), Damage 1d4+4 slashing
Ranged Ȱɵ club +7 (thrown 10 feet), Damage 1d6+4 bludgeoning
Ranged Ȱɵ javelin +7 (thrown 30 feet), Damage 1d6+4 piercing
p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19669189
4425346
