p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19669031
4425188
Bestiary
178
Gnoll
Gnolls are short, hyena-headed humanoids who dwell in warm grasslands,
savannas, and arid hills. Given their appearance, their afﬁnity for hyenas
should not be surprising; gnolls share their homes, food, and even many of their
own behaviors with these animals. Much like hyenas, gnolls have a notorious
reputation—they are known as bloodthirsty gluttons and slavers who worship
demons or other reprehensible powers. Though these rumors are often true, the
behavior of gnoll clans varies widely. Some groups are composed of capable
hunters who rarely clash with other humanoids unless there is a conﬂict over
territory. Others hew closer to the unsavory stories, preferring to raid settlements
and enslave innocents, snatching the fruits of others’ hard labor by strength of
arms and forcing their victims to perform the hard, demeaning labor necessary to
maintain the brutal clan.
Gnolls lack any particular reverence for the remains of the dead, which adds
to their reputation as scavengers or even cannibals. They willingly eat nearly any
other creature, including dead gnolls, which can evoke strong reactions from
people and cultures with a strong taboo against cannibalism or desecrating the
dead. To a gnoll, it is almost more offensive to not eat a dead body, no matter its
origin; gnolls see no point in wasting precious meat in a harsh and challenging
world. Worse still is the refusal to eat the ﬂesh of a dead gnoll, which they
consider an insult to that gnoll’s memory and sacriﬁce and an implication
that the gnoll’s ﬂesh is unworthy of consumption. In fact, they refuse
to eat the bodies of particularly hated foes; particularly warmongering
gnolls even spike the bodies or heads of such despised enemies on tall
spears, which they place around their tribal holdings to dishonor the
dead and intimidate would-be invaders.
Gnoll women are far stronger and more aggressive than gnoll men
and are typically considered the leaders of their hunting packs and
clans. Though gnolls tend to be disorganized when it comes to
practical matters or negotiations, they are extremely efﬁcient at
working together to hunt down prey or overwhelm a group
of foes. Much like hyenas, they prefer to hunt in packs, and
are exceptionally skilled at setting up ambushes or separating
individual targets from larger groups.
Gnoll Hunter
Gnoll hunters serve their clans by hunting for food in
the wilds, marauding along well-traveled roads, and
tracking down escaped slaves.
GNOLL HUNTER
CREATURE 2
CE
MEDIUM
GNOLL
HUMANOID
Perception +7; darkvision
Skills Acrobatics +7, Athletics +8, Intimidation +4, Stealth +7, Survival +5
Languages Gnoll
Str +4, Dex +3, Con +2, Int –1, Wis +1, Cha +0
Items battle axe, leather armor, shortbow (20 arrows)
AC 18; Fort +8, Ref +7, Will +7
HP 29
Speed 25 feet
Melee Ȱɵ battle axe +10 (sweep), Damage 1d8+4 slashing
Melee Ȱɵ jaws +10 (agile), Damage 1d8+2 piercing
Ranged Ȱɵ shortbow +10 (deadly 1d10, range increment 60 feet), Damage 1d6 piercing
Pack Attack A gnoll hunter deals 1d4 extra damage to any creature
that’s within reach of at least two of the gnoll hunter’s allies.
Rugged Travel A gnoll ignores the ﬁrst square of diﬃcult
terrain it moves into each time it Steps or Strides.
GNOLL CLANS
The most commonly encountered
gnoll clans are slavers, who travel
far and wide to acquire chattel
and auction oﬀ their living goods.
Although not all clans engage in
slavery, most are still violent toward
other creatures in general. Some
clans hunt people for food, others
capture innocents to sacriﬁce to evil
deities, and still others simply wish
to wet their blades with blood.
p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19669031
4425188
