p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19669073
4425230
Bestiary
220
LICH CRAFTING
Liches spend a good deal of their
downtime crafting magic items. In
particular, a lich will create items
that help it defeat and overcome
known problems. This fact can
prove especially dangerous if the
PCs encounter a lich but fail to
destroy its phylactery, for the next
time they encounter the lich, it will
likely have just the right tools to
overcome their defenses.
Lich
To gain more time to complete their goals, some desperate spellcasters pursue
immortality by embracing undeath. After long years of research and the creation of
a special container called a phylactery, a spellcaster takes the ﬁnal step by imbibing
a deadly concoction or casting dreadful incantations that transform them into a lich.
While most undertake this drastic plan to continue their work or fulﬁll some long-term
plan, others become liches because they fear death or to fulﬁll some malevolent
purpose, such as long-sworn revenge. Regardless, the result is permanent and carries
with it the potential to alter history—both that of those who transform themselves
and of the countless mortals that will inevitably suffer as a result of a lich’s new power.
After its metamorphosis, a lich often ﬁnds some quiet place to dwell, typically
protected by a variety of guardians and traps, for two primary purposes. First, a lich
requires solitude in order to plan its elaborate schemes, and second, few mortals
(if any) deign to interact with these legendarily corrupt necromancers. One reason
begets the other, as the self-imposed isolation of a lich often drives the lich insane,
further solidifying its separation from civilization. The longer a lich lives, the
more meticulous a planner it becomes, secreting itself within a labyrinth of deadly
puzzles, misdirection, and monsters. A lich’s servants and guardians are absolutely
loyal, either due to their nature (such as constructs or other undead) or as a result of
compulsion using powerful magic. Many liches go mad, in time, and the nature of a
lich’s lair is a good indicator of the undead’s current mental state.
For all the protections it arrays around itself, a lich will go to greater lengths to
guard its phylactery, as it knows that the destruction of this magical container spells
doom for the lich. A lich is notoriously difﬁcult to bargain with, though the threat of
damaging its phylactery is a sure way to gain the upper hand in such a negotiation.
Creating A Lich
A lich can be any type of spellcaster, as long as it has the ability to perform a
ritual of undeath as the primary caster (which can usually be performed only by a
spellcaster capable of casting 6th-level spells). To create a lich, follow these steps.
Increase the spellcaster’s level by 1 and change its statistics as follows.
•	 Increase spell DCs and spell attack roll by 2.
LICH ABIlITIES
A lich gains the undead trait and becomes evil. Liches lose all abilities that come
from being a living creature.
A lich gains the following abilities.
Darkvision
Saving Throws +1 status bonus to all saves vs. positive
Negative Healing
Rejuvenation (arcane, necromancy) When a lich is destroyed, its soul immediately
transfers to its phylactery. A lich can be permanently destroyed only if its phylactery
is found and destroyed.
Immunities death eﬀects, disease, paralyzed, poison, unconscious
Resistances cold 20, physical 15 (except magic bludgeoning)
Frightful Presence (aura, emotion, fear, mental) 60 feet, DC 30
Hand of the Lich All liches have a hand unarmed attack that deals 1d8 negative damage
for every 3 levels and inﬂicts a paralyzing touch. This attack has the ﬁnesse trait.
Drain Phylactery Ȳ˓ Frequency once per day; Eﬀect The lich taps into its phylactery’s
power to cast any arcane spell up to the highest level the lich can cast, even if the spell
being cast is not one of the lich’s prepared spells. The lich’s phylactery doesn’t need to
be present for the lich to use this ability.
Paralyzing Touch (arcane, curse, incapacitation, necromancy) A creature damaged by the
lich’s hand Strike must succeed at a Fortitude save against the lich’s spell DC – 4. The
creature becomes paralyzed for 1 round on a failure. On a critical failure, the creature is
paralyzed permanently, falls prone, and seems dead. A DC 25 Medicine check reveals
the victim is alive.
p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19669073
4425230
