p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19668982
4425139
D
129
Introduction
A-C
D
E-G
H-K
L-N
O-R
S-T
U-Z
Appendix
DRAKAUTHIX SPORELINGS
When a new drakauthix bursts
forth from a spore-infested corpse,
it has no true way of defending
itself. However, a sporeling does
not need to hunt until it grows
much larger. Each sporeling
harvests enough material from
the body it emerged from to grow
to its full size over a few short
days. After it has done so, the
drakauthix detaches from the cave
ceiling and, starving, immediately
seeks out its ﬁrst meal in the
cavern below.
Drakauthix
The drakauthix is a massive fungus that ﬂoats through the heights of the largest
Darklands caverns, propelled by bladders that spray air and spores. A voracious
but slow-moving hunter, the drakauthix prefers to ambush meaty creatures
from above, using its hooked appendages to pull its victims upward to feed.
The drakauthix’s digestive process is entirely external—it clings to victims,
and its spore-laden surface slowly feeds on and grows through the ﬂesh before
the spore-infested carcass is discarded. As the infested body strikes the ground
below, it bursts and releases a cloud of spores, unleashing a host of young called
sporelings that immediately scuttle up the cavern walls to cling to its ceiling
and grow.
The drakauthix behaves no more intelligently than most predatory animals,
and often uses a sort of symbiotic scavenger method to secure prey by capitalizing
on the hunting methods of oozes and vermin found in the large cave systems
it frequents. When a relatively mindless creature kills a victim, the drakauthix
drifts down, hooks the freshly slain carcass with its tendrils, and reels in its meal.
The mindless ooze or other creature that just had its food stolen rarely holds a
grudge and simply slithers off to ﬁnd a new quarry, letting the drakauthix digest
the corpse in peace. Of course, the drakauthix isn’t above feasting on more active
prey as well, and might attack an adventurer who neglects to look upward for
danger when exploring a network of mysterious caves.
Some Darklands-dwelling creatures, such as duergars, hunt drakauthixes for
their ﬂesh, which has a unique ﬂavor with a peppery aftertaste. Subterranean
races also make ink from drakauthixes by burning their carcasses, then grinding
and pressing the ashes for a long time until a silvery substance congeals.
DRAKAUTHIX
CREATURE 9
N
HUGE
FUNGUS
Perception +17; darkvision, sporesight (imprecise) 60 feet
Skills Acrobatics +15, Athletics +20, Stealth +17
Str +7, Dex +2, Con +6, Int –4, Wis +2, Cha +0
Sporesight The drakauthix exudes a cloud of spores that it uses to see.
This is an imprecise sense that functions only in areas without
strong wind currents. Sporesight does not function underwater.
AC 25; Fort +21, Ref +13, Will +15
HP 190; Weaknesses ﬁre 10, slashing 10
Obscuring Spores Whenever the drakauthix takes at
least 10 slashing damage, it releases a cloud of brown
spores that has the eﬀect of obscuring mist for 1 minute,
centered around the drakauthix. This cloud of spores
does not move with the drakauthix, nor is it displaced by
its movement.
Speed ﬂy 20 feet
Melee Ȱɵ tentacle +20 (reach 30 feet), Damage 3d8+9
piercing plus Improved Grab
Reel In Ȱɵ The drakauthix pulls all creatures it has
grabbed 15 feet closer to itself.
Spore Tendrils Ȱɵ The tendrils that cover the
drakauthix’s body reach out and infest adjacent
creatures, dealing 4d6 poison damage and 1d6
persistent poison damage. A creature can attempt a
basic DC 27 Reﬂex save to reduce this damage, but
one grabbed by the drakauthix takes a –4 circumstance
penalty to this save.
Whirlwind of Hooks ʚʖ ]The drakauthix whirls, whipping creatures
around it. The drakauthix makes a tentacle Strike against every
creature within its reach.
p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19668982
4425139
