p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19668917
4425074
Bestiary
64
CHUUL TREASURE
While chuuls are uninterested
in money, gems, tools, or magic
of any kind, they have a nearly
compulsive need to collect trophies
of their victories, perchance to
savor the memories of the kill and
the meat. What treasure they have
are typically such mementos.
Chuul
Also known as chu’ulothis, these large, armor-plated, crustacean predators lurk
beneath the surface of pools, mires, and ponds, waiting to snatch up prey with
their massive claws before paralyzing them with their tentacles. At that point,
they begin to feed, eating their quarry alive.
Chuuls can live in fresh or saltwater, and indeed are found in aquatic environs
the world over—even in the subterranean oceans and lakes of the Darklands.
While chuuls are good swimmers, they prefer terrestrial prey. Their preferred
method of hunting is by lunging out of the water, paralyzing their victims with
their poison-coated tentacles, then gleefully dragging their twitching food into the
water to drown if they cannot simply eat such morsels alive. Chuuls that dwell
aboveground prefer to dine on lizardfolk, while those swimming the subterranean
lakes of the Darklands readily eat anything but xulgaths, whose ﬂavor and stink
they ﬁnd off-putting.
Chuuls are capable of speech and reason, but these creatures rarely speak with
those outside their species except to taunt their food. Before it begins consuming
its prey, a chuul often speaks in a gurgling, nearly incomprehensible dialect about
how it will enjoy feasting on the creature’s ﬂesh. Perhaps chuuls believe that
insults and degradation lead to more tender and tastier food, but the truth will
likely never be known; almost all chuuls stubbornly refuse any
meaningful conversation, even when imprisoned and compelled
by treats or pain.
It is unknown if a chuul society exists beyond their frenzied
mating season. Chuuls’ intellects seem devoted only toward eating,
causing psychological pain to sentient creatures, decorating their
lairs with mementos of their favorite meals and
victories, and breeding.
CHUUL
CREATURE 7
CE
LARGE
ABERRATION
AMPHIBIOUS
Perception +15; darkvision, tremorsense
(imprecise) 30 feet
Languages Aklo, Common (or Undercommon,
for Darklands variants)
Skills Athletics +17, Nature +13, Stealth +14,
Survival +13
Str +6, Dex +3, Con +4, Int +0, Wis +2, Cha –1
AC 28; Fort +18, Ref +15, Will +12
HP 100; Immunities poison
Attack of Opportunity Ǻȓ
Speed 30 feet; swim 25 feet
Melee Ȱɵ claws +19 (reach 10 feet), Damage 2d8+9 bludgeoning plus Grab
Constrict Ȱɵ 1d8+9 bludgeoning, DC 25 (grabbed by claws only)
Mandibles Ȱɵ Requirement A creature is grabbed and paralyzed
by the chuul’s tentacles. Eﬀect The creature takes 3d6
piercing damage.
Paralytic Venom (incapacitation, poison) Saving Throw
DC 25 Fortitude; Maximum Duration 6 rounds; Stage 1
paralyzed (1 round).
Tentacle Transfer Ȱɵ Requirement The chuul has a
creature grabbed. Eﬀect The chuul transfers the
grabbed creature from its claws to its tentacles,
or vice versa. A creature is exposed to the
chuul’s paralytic venom when transferred into
the tentacles and at the start of each of the
chuul’s turns if it remains grabbed by
the tentacles.
p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19668917
4425074
