p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19669111
4425268
Bestiary
258
OTYUGH “PETS”
Otyughs happily wallow in and
consume the garbage of other
creatures, making them an
eﬃcient (and ecological) disposal
system for those bold enough
to try such a tack. The problem,
though, as such otyugh keepers
soon realize, is supplying enough
refuse to keep the nigh-insatiable
otyugh from wandering oﬀ from
its miasmic kennel.
Otyugh
Lords of sewers, ditches, and landﬁlls, otyughs are ﬁlthy monstrosities that stomp
about on three massive legs in search of tasty garbage and refuse. Using two barbed
tentacles to grasp and tear, guided by a third with a proliferation of eyes at the end,
the otyugh has perfectly adapted to life in its cramped, disgusting environment,
where it uses its appendages to see into tight spaces and grasp hidden prey.
Most assume that otyughs originally evolved in swamps and moved into
sewers as civilization encroached on their natural habitats. True or not, they are
now one of the larger predators in those dank environs. Otyughs are territorial,
but they have been known to form loose collectives, even giving each other
important-sounding titles like “king of offal” and “duchess of slime” to indicate
their rank and station in their sludgy underworld beneath the streets.
Those who run across an otyugh might be surprised to hear it speak, shouting
at intruders to leave its putrid home or demanding tribute in the form of trash or
other prizes of dubious nature.
OTYUGH
CREATURE 4
N
LARGE
ABERRATION
Perception +10; darkvision, scent (imprecise) 30 feet
Languages Common
Skills Acrobatics +8, Athletics +14, Stealth +8 (+11 in lair)
Str +6, Dex +2, Con +4, Int –2, Wis +2, Cha –2
AC 20; Fort +12, Ref +8, Will +10
HP 70; Immunities disease
Stench (aura, olfactory) 40 feet. A creature entering the aura must succeed at
a DC 20 Fortitude save or be sickened 1 (plus slowed 1 for the same duration
on a critical failure). On a success, the creature is temporarily immune to
the sickened and slowed eﬀects of this stench for 1 hour. Regardless of
the save, while within the aura, creatures take a –2 circumstance penalty
to saves against diseases. An otyugh’s stench is due to the oﬀal and refuse
that it wallows in, so cleaning the creature thoroughly (with create water
and suﬃcient scrubbing, for example) deactivates the aura, while a suﬃciently
plugged nose allows an individual to avoid exposure to the stench.
Speed 20 feet
Melee Ȱɵ jaws +14, Damage 2d6+6 piercing plus ﬁlth fever
Melee Ȱɵ tentacle +14 (agile, reach 10 feet), Damage 1d6+6 bludgeoning plus Grab
Constrict Ȱɵ 1d6+6 bludgeoning, DC 22
Reposition Ȱɵ The otyugh attempts to move all creatures that it
has grabbed into other spaces within the reach of its tentacles,
rolling a single Athletics check and comparing the result against
each creature’s Fortitude DC.
On a failure, the creature
remains in place, and on
a critical failure, the
creature is no longer
grabbed.
Filth Fever (disease);
The
sickened
and
unconscious conditions
from ﬁlth fever don’t
improve on their own until the
disease is cured. Saving Throw DC
20 Fortitude; Stage 1 carrier with no
ill eﬀect (1d4 hours); Stage 2 sickened 1 (1 day);
Stage 3 sickened 1 and slowed 1 as long as it
remains sickened (1 day); Stage 4 unconscious
(1 day); Stage 5 dead
p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19669111
4425268
