p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19668987
4425144
Bestiary
134
Frost Drake
Frost drakes pose an immense danger in the frozen reaches they call home,
where they roam far and wide to hunt for prey such as caribou, wolves, small
bears, and tundra-dwelling people. Related as they are to white dragons, these
drakes share many habits and facets of their disposition with their draconic
cousins. Indeed, just as white dragons are among the most bestial and craven of
dragonkind, frost drakes are among the most depraved and openly malicious
of the drakes. They are also especially insolent, and are less likely to back
down from a ﬁght compared to other drakes. Many frost drakes have met their
ends trying to enact cruelties beyond their means, such as singly taking on an
entire castle or well-fortiﬁed township. Although a frost drake can wreak much
destruction on its own, tales of village-dwelling northerners banding together to
defend their homes from these rogue menaces are fairly common.
A frost drake’s hunting grounds are quite large. Those frost drakes that live
upon the permanently frozen peaks of high mountains have been known to
swoop down to snatch up prey from the lowlands, leaving frozen swaths of earth
from their breath as the only sign of their passing. Their frost-covered scales range
from deep royal blue to crisp cyan and sometimes feature sporadic patches of
violet. Their hides are thinner than most drakes’; when a frost drake is inhaling
in preparation to launch its signature frozen breath, the monster’s ice-blue blood
can be seen beneath its scales.
FROST DRAKE
CREATURE 7
CE
LARGE
COLD
DRAGON
Perception +14; darkvision, scent (imprecise) 30 feet, snow vision
Languages Draconic
Skills Acrobatics +15, Athletics +17, Intimidation +14, Stealth +15
Str +6, Dex +2, Con +4, Int –1, Wis +3, Cha +1
Snow Vision Snow doesn’t impair a frost drake’s vision; it ignores concealment from
snowfall.
AC 25; Fort +17, Ref +15, Will +14
HP 115; Immunities cold, paralyzed, unconscious; Weaknesses ﬁre 10
Retaliatory Strike Ǻȓ Trigger A creature within reach of the frost drake’s tail
successfully damages the frost drake with a Strike. Eﬀect The frost drake attempts
to Strike with its tail. If the Strike hits, it deals an additional 1d6 damage.
Speed 20 feet, burrow 20 feet (snow only), ﬂy 50 feet, ice climb 20 feet
Melee Ȱɵ fangs +17, Damage 2d12+8 piercing plus 1d6 cold
Melee Ȱɵ tail +17 (reach 10 feet), Damage 2d10+8 bludgeoning
Draconic Frenzy ʚʖ The frost drake makes
two gangs Strikes and one tail Strike in
any order.
Freezing Mist Breath ʚʖ (arcane, cold,
evocation) The frost drake spits a ball
of liquid up to 60 feet that explodes
into a 20-foot-burst cloud of freezing
mist. Those in the burst take 8d6 cold
damage (DC 25 basic Reﬂex save). The mist
cakes all surfaces in the area with a sheet of
slippery ice that turns the area into diﬃcult
terrain for 2d4 rounds. It can’t use Freezing Mist
Breath again for 1d6 rounds.
Ice Climb A frost drake can climb on ice as though
it had the listed climb Speed. It ignores diﬃcult terrain
and greater diﬃcult terrain from ice and snow and doesn’t
risk falling when crossing ice.
Speed Surge Ȱɵ (move) The frost drake moves up to
twice its Speed. It can do this three times per day.
DRAKE RESOURCES
While every adventurer knows
that dragon hide can be crafted
into potent armor or weapons,
drake hide holds no such intrinsic
value. Nonetheless, drake
scales and horns are physically
impressive, and to the uneducated
buyer, might seem at ﬁrst glance
to be legitimate. Unscrupulous
leatherworkers have been known
to use drake hides to craft and
sell counterfeit dragonhide
armor, so potential buyers
should remain on the
lookout for scams.
p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19668987
4425144
