p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19669191
4425348
Bestiary
338
YETI TREASURE
Lone exiles of yeti clans have little
use for treasure and leave the gear
of their slain victims behind where
it is quickly covered by snowfall.
Clan-based yetis, on the other
hand, create beautifully carved
stonework, some of which they
shape into protective talismans of
rare beauty.
Yeti
Nearly a myth, the yeti is rarely seen—and even when it is, it is often too late.
Yetis dwell amid the highest, most remote peaks of the world, coming down
from their snowy mountain holds to raid, steal livestock, and sometimes feed
their insatiable urges for slaughter and destruction. Those folks who live at the
foot of a yeti-ruled mountain warn of the “abominable snowmen”: monstrous,
fur-covered humanoids who leave strange and bloody tracks in the snow.
Normally yetis seek to protect the world rather than hunt its other civilized
denizens. They do so by lairing near eldritch portals that form links between
the Material Plane and other, much stranger dimensions of reality. From within
these snow-covered arches and ancient stone doorways, aliens, living nightmares,
ﬁends, and worse can emerge through dimensional networks into the world. Yetis
who guard these portals sometimes succumb to these horrors and are corrupted,
taking on the bloodthirsty urges and horriﬁc behaviors of the very monsters they
strive to protect the world against. Yetis who manifest such violent tendencies
are driven out of their clan and forced to wander the mountaintops alone, thus
giving rise to the myth of the legendary abominable snowman. Forced to fend
for themselves, these exiled yetis often fully embrace the corrupting elements that
caused their exile in the ﬁrst place, growing more powerful and more deadly as
a result. The most vile of these yetis turn to cannibalism, not out of need, but
out of a sheer joy at the terror they inﬂict upon their kin. Invariably such
cannibalistic yetis attract the attention of wendigos, which makes a bad
situation all the worse.
YETI
CREATURE 5
UNCOMMON
N
LARGE
HUMANOID
Perception +15; darkvision, scent (imprecise) 30 feet
Languages Aklo
Skills Athletics +14, Stealth +12 (+15 in
snow), Survival +11
Str +5, Dex +2, Con +4, Int –1,
Wis +4, Cha –1
Snowblind When Hiding, the yeti
is concealed by any snowfall, even
if it’s not thick enough to make other
creatures concealed.
AC 21; Fort +15, Ref +11, Will +13; +4 status to all saves vs. fear and dreams
HP 115; Immunities cold; Weaknesses ﬁre 10
Nightmare Guardian Yetis gain a +4 status bonus to saves against fear and
against spells and abilities that aﬀect dreams. A yeti that falls prey to a
supernatural nightmare loses this ability and becomes permanently enraged,
gaining a +1 status bonus to attack and damage rolls and a –1 status penalty
to AC.
Vanish Ǻȓ Trigger The yeti is hidden or undetected while not in combat,
and a creature would observe it. Eﬀect The yeti Strides or Climbs up to
half its Speed to a location where it can Hide, then Hides. If its new Stealth
check result meets or exceeds the triggering creature’s Perception DC, the yeti
remains hidden.
Speed 35 feet, climb 20 feet
Melee Ȱɵ claw +15, Damage 2d10+5 slashing
Grisly Arrival Ȳ˓ (emotion, fear, mental); Trigger The yeti hits a creature in
the ﬁrst round of combat and the yeti was hidden from that creature at
the start of combat. Eﬀect Each enemy within 30 feet that witnesses the
attack (including the target of the attack) must attempt a DC 23 Will
save. On a failure, the creature is frightened 2; on a critical failure, it’s
frightened 4.
Rend Ȱɵ claw
p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19669191
4425348
