p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19669135
4425292
Bestiary
282
ROPER TREASURE
A roper keeps treasure from
its past victims, often enjoying
the items as mementos of prior
conversations or delicious ﬂavors.
In addition, roper gizzards often
collect small trinkets and gems
from those who have been gobbled
whole. Experienced Darklands
adventurers have all sorts of
tall tales of the strange and
unexpected ﬁndings discovered in
a roper gizzard.
Roper
To all but the most sharp-eyed underground explorers, a roper appears to be
nothing more than a large stalactite, stalagmite, or pillar of ice. Cunning and
patient ambush predators, ropers use this to their advantage.
Ropers do not form large societies (although they can often be found living
alongside other deep-dwelling denizens), but they often congregate in small
clusters and sometimes hunt in groups. Particularly interested in the philosophy
of life and death and the ﬁner points of the more cruel and sinister religions
of the world, a roper can talk or argue for hours with those it initially sought
merely to eat. Quick-thinking spelunkers can sometimes stave off a roper’s
appetite by entertaining it with stories or discussions of philosophy, but ropers
do not willingly allow such intriguing prey to escape alive. Stories speak of
particularly skilled debaters and philosophers who have been kept for days or
even years as pets or conversational companions by roper clusters, but in the
end, if such pets don’t eventually escape, the ropers’ appetites win out over their
intellectual curiosity—especially in cases where the pets constantly outmaneuver
their keepers’ wits and patience. A roper is 9 feet tall and weighs 2,200 pounds.
ROPER
CREATURE 10
UNCOMMON
CE
LARGE
ABERRATION
Perception +21; darkvision
Languages Aklo, Undercommon
Skills Athletics +22, Nature +17 (+21 about caves),
Religion +19, Stealth +17 (+25 in stony or icy areas)
Str +6, Dex +1, Con +6, Int +1, Wis +3, Cha +1
AC 29; Fort +20, Ref +15, Will +21; +2 status to all saves vs. magic
HP 215; Weaknesses ﬁre 10; Resistances electricity 10
Reactive Lash Ǻȓ Trigger A creature within reach of the roper’s strand
leaves a square during a move action it’s using. Eﬀect The roper makes a
strand Strike against the triggering creature.
Speed 10 feet, climb 10 feet
Melee Ȱɵ jaws +21, Damage 2d12+12 piercing
Melee Ȱɵ strand +23 (reach 50 feet), Eﬀect sticky strand
Extend Strands Ȱɵ The roper extends or retracts six thin, sticky tendrils
from its body. While the strands are extended, the roper takes a
–4 circumstance penalty to Stealth checks, and while they’re
retracted, it can’t use its strand Strikes.
Flurry of Strands Ȱɵ The roper makes a strand Strike with
each of its strands (except those that are immobilizing
creatures). Each attack must be against a diﬀerent
target. These attacks count toward the roper’s multiple
attack penalty, but its multiple attack penalty doesn’t
increase until after all the attacks.
Pull the Strands ʚʖ The roper pulls every creature
grabbed by its strands toward itself. The roper rolls
a single Athletics check and compares the result to each immobilized
creature’s Fortitude DC. The roper pulls each creature it succeeds against
up to 25 feet closer and each creature it critically succeeds against up to
50 feet closer.
Sticky Strand Any creature hit by a roper’s strand is enfeebled 1 and grabbed. Each
additional hit from a strand increases the enfeebled condition value by 1 (to a maximum
of enfeebled 4). This enfeebled value decreases by 1 every 8 hours. The roper can move
while it has a creature grabbed with a strand, but it automatically releases the creature
if it moves beyond the strand’s reach. The roper can release an grabbed creature as a
free action. A creature can sever a strand with a target attack that hits AC 27 and deals
at least 18 slashing damage. This doesn’t deal any damage to the roper itself, though it
can no longer attack with a severed strand.
p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19669135
4425292
