p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19668891
4425048
Bestiary
38
Basilisk
The basilisk is an eight-legged reptile with a nasty disposition and the ability
to turn creatures to stone with its gaze. Folklore holds that, much like for the
cockatrice, the ﬁrst basilisks hatched from leathery eggs laid by snakes and
incubated by roosters, but little in the basilisk’s physiology lends any credence
to this claim.
A basilisk prefers to eat petriﬁed ﬂesh. Once a victim has been turned to
stone, the basilisk crunches the fossilized corpse with its powerful jaws and lets
its potent stomach acids do the rest. This digestive process is extremely slow
and inefﬁcient, causing the basilisk to move so lethargically that it appears as
if in mid-petriﬁcation itself. This has even led to the saying “as slow as a well-
fed basilisk.” Certainly basilisks are well-known for their slow gait and slothful
nature, but a predator that can turn its prey to stone with a glance hardly has
much need for speed.
An adult basilisk is 13 feet long from head to tail and weighs roughly 300
pounds. These reptiles make hissing sounds when moving about that turns to
a guttural gurgle when they’re agitated. Though they are normally solitary
creatures that come together only to mate and lay eggs, there are periodic reports
of regions being infested with unusual numbers of basilisks. What causes these
unusual congregations of basilisk activity is unknown.
For unknown reasons, weasels and ferrets are immune to the basilisk’s stare,
and they sometimes sneak into basilisk lairs while a parent is hunting in order
to consume eggs or freshly hatched young. Some legends suggest that a
basilisk’s blood can transmute common stones into other material, but this
is likely a case of witnesses misinterpreting the magical restoration of
previously petriﬁed creatures or body parts.
BASILISK
CREATURE 5
N
MEDIUM
BEAST
Perception +11; darkvision
Skills Athletics +13, Stealth +8
Str +4, Dex –1, Con +5, Int –3, Wis +2, Cha +1
AC 22; Fort +14, Ref +8, Will +11
HP 75
Petrifying Glance Ǻȓ (arcane, aura, transmutation, visual); Trigger A
creature within 30 feet that the basilisk can see starts its turn.
Eﬀect The target must attempt a DC 20 Fortitude save. If it fails,
it’s slow 1 for 1 minute as its body slowly stiﬀens.
Speed 20 feet
Melee Ȱɵ jaws +15, Damage 2d8+4 piercing
Petrifying
Gaze
ʚʖ
(arcane,
concentrate,
incapacitation, transmutation, visual); The basilisk
stares at a creature it can see within 30 feet. That
creature must attempt a DC 22 Fortitude save. If it
fails and has not already been slowed by Petrifying
Glance or this ability, it becomes slowed 1. If
the creature was already slowed by this ability
or Petrifying Glance, a failed save causes the
creature to be petriﬁed permanently.
A creature petriﬁed in this manner that
is coated (not just splashed) with fresh
basilisk blood (taken from a basilisk
that has been dead no longer than
1 hour) is instantly restored to
ﬂesh. A single basilisk contains
enough blood to coat 1d3 Medium
creatures in this manner.
BASILISK LAIRS
Basilisks can be found in almost
any terrestrial environment,
including forests, hills, mountains,
plains, and swamps. They tend
to dwell in caves or sheltered
areas, and their hides often bear
complexions that allow them
to more easily blend with their
environments. As a result, forest-
dwelling basilisks may have scales
of a verdant emerald color to
match surrounding vegetation,
while a basilisk that lives in the
desert may be a sandy brown or
shale color.
p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19668891
4425048
