p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19668939
4425096
Bestiary
86
Devil
Masters of corruption and architects of conquest, devils seek both to tempt mortal
life to join in their pursuit of all things profane and to spread tyranny throughout
all worlds. The temptations they offer mortals range from great powers granted
by the signing of an infernal contract to twisted favors following a whispered
pledge to a diabolic patron, or any number of even subtler exchanges. Those who
succumb to these temptations ﬁnd themselves consigned to an afterlife of endless
torment in the pits of Hell, wherein the only hope of escape lies in the chance of
being promoted to become a devil in the infernal ranks. Every devil has a speciﬁc
role to play in the upkeep of the remorseless bureaucratic machine that is Hell,
from soldiers and scholars to inquisitors, lawyers, judges, and executioners. Lowly
lemures and imps perform subservient labor to more powerful and specialized
devils, such as contract devils and erinyes, while the greatest pit ﬁends command
entire infernal armies.
Lemure
These shapeless masses of quivering ﬂesh are the least of devilkind. Pathetic creatures
from Hell’s ﬁrst layer, lemures roam alongside damned and suffering souls. Pit
ﬁends can combine the essence of a mob of lemures to concentrate their collective
wickedness with a single form, granting it an infernal sentience and transforming it
into a more powerful devil (see the pit ﬁend’s Devil Shaping ability).
LEMURE
CREATURE 0
LE
MEDIUM
DEVIL
FIEND
MINDLESS
Perception +0; greater darkvision
Skills Athletics +5
Str +2, Dex +0, Con +3 Int –5, Wis +0, Cha –3
AC 13; Fort +10, Ref +5, Will +3
HP 20; Immunities ﬁre, mental; Weaknesses
good 3; Resistances physical 3 (except
silver), poison 5
Speed 20 feet
Melee Ȱɵ claw +7 (evil, magical), Damage
1d4+2 slashing plus 1 evil
Subservience Lemures have little
drive of their own, but other devils
can take command of them. A non-
lemure devil can issue a command
to all lemures within 60 feet of it
with a single action, which has the
auditory and concentrate traits. The devil
picks one of the following orders lemures can understand, and the
lemures follow that order. The command and its eﬀects end once
the commander is out of the lemure’s sight, a new command is
issued by the same or another devil, or the lemure dies.
•
Kill The lemure attacks one target the commander
singles out and gains a +1 circumstance bonus to attack
rolls against the target.
•
Defend The lemure circles the commander and
attacks any creature that comes near. It gains a +1
circumstance bonus to AC and saves.
•	 Fetch The lemure gains a +10–foot circumstance
bonus to its Speed and attempts to get an object
or person the commander singles out. It attacks
anyone and anything that gets in the way.
•
Work The lemure performs drudge work
dictated by the commander.
DIABOLIC DIVINITIES
Many unique and powerful devils
hold positions of power in Hell.
The most numerous of these are
the infernal dukes, many of whom
were promoted to this position
from already impressive statures
as pit ﬁends. The supreme ruler of
Hell itself is Asmodeus, the Prince
of Darkness. Between these two
tiers rule the eight archdevils—see
the sidebar on the facing page.
p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19668939
4425096
