p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19668887
4425044
Bestiary
34
BORN FROM TRAGEDY
The banshee represents one of the
most tragic of undead, a soul so
wracked with agony and fury over
a betrayal in life that, in death, it
lingers on as a great evil. That most
of those who become banshees
were not evil in life only deepens
this tragic theme, and many elven
adventurers see it as their duty
not only to put banshees to rest,
but to right the wrong that
saw their creation in the
ﬁrst place.
Banshee
Banshees are the furious, tormented souls of elves bound to the Material Plane
by a betrayal that deﬁned the ﬁnal hours of their lives. Some banshees arise from
elves who were slain by trusted friends and allies, or whose loved ones betrayed
them on their deathbeds. Others spawn from elves whose treacherous deeds
shortly before their deaths left a stain upon their souls. Regardless of their origin,
banshees despise the living. This hatred of life is all too often a horriﬁc inversion
of their personalities in life. Some speculate that the more kind-hearted the elf
(and the more wrenching the betrayal), the crueler the banshee.
Banshees rarely stray far from where they perished and typically haunt
thick forests and canopied swamps where little light graces the ground. Many
banshees can be found in the elven nation of Kyonin, speciﬁcally in Tanglebriar,
the sinister domain of the demon Treerazer. Similarly, a large number of banshees
can be found lurking about the edges of drow settlements in the Darklands, as
plenty of cruelty and betrayal exists in drow culture.
Banshees’ mere touch inﬂicts pain and primal fear, and those
exposed to their wails of grief rarely survive the experience.
BANSHEE
CREATURE 17
UNCOMMON
CE
MEDIUM
INCORPOREAL
SPIRIT
UNDEAD
Perception +32; hears heartbeats (imprecise) 60 feet, darkvision
Languages Common, Elven
Skills Acrobatics +31, Intimidation +32, Occultism +25
Str –5, Dex +6, Con +2, Int +0, Wis +7, Cha +7
Hears Heartbeats The banshee can hear heartbeats within 60 feet (imprecise).
Sunlight Powerlessness If in direct sunlight, the banshee is slowed 1 and
can’t use actions that have the attack trait.
AC 39; Fort +25, Ref +29, Will +32
HP 250, negative healing; Immunities disease, paralyzed, poison,
precision, unconscious; Resistances all damage 12 (except force,
ghost touch, or positive; double resistance vs. non-magical)
Vengeful Spite Ǻȓ (evocation, occult); Trigger A foe critically hits
the banshee, or the banshee critically fails their save against a foe’s
damaging eﬀect. Eﬀect The banshee lashes back at their tormentor,
dealing 4d10+14 mental damage (DC 38 basic Will save) and applying
the eﬀects of terrifying touch based on the results of the same Will save.
Speed ﬂy 60 feet
Melee Ȱɵ hand +32 (ﬁnesse, magical), Damage 4d10+14 negative plus
terrifying touch
Spectral Ripple When a banshee Strides at least 10 feet, they’re
concealed until the start of their next turn.
Terrifying Touch (emotion, enchantment, fear, occult) A creature damaged
by the banshee’s touch that isn’t already frightened must attempt a DC
38 Will save (DC 43 if the attack was a critical hit). If the creature fails
its save, it’s frightened 2; on a critical failure, the creature also cowers
with fear and is stunned 4. If the creature is protected against fear by a
spell or magic item, the banshee’s touch ﬁrst attempts to counteract the
protection eﬀect, with the eﬀect of a 9th-level dispel magic spell.
Wail ʚʖ (auditory, concentrate, death, necromancy, occult) The banshee
unleashes a soul-chilling wail of the banshee (DC 38). This Wail overcomes
silence and similar eﬀects of 5th level or lower. The banshee can instead
use Wail as a three-action activity to overcome such eﬀects of up to
8th level.
The banshee’s Wail resonates for 1 round, and any creature that comes
within the area during that time must attempt a save against the eﬀect. A
creature can’t be aﬀected more than once by the same Wail. The banshee
can’t Wail again for 1d4 rounds.
p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19668887
4425044
