p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19668868
4425025
A-C
15
Introduction
A-C
D
E-G
H-K
L-N
O-R
S-T
U-Z
Appendix
VEILED MASTER
CREATURE 14
RARE
LE
LARGE
ABERRATION
AQUATIC
Perception +25; darkvision
Languages Aklo, Alghollthu, Aquan, Common, Undercommon; tongues
Skills Arcana +27, Athletics +24, Deception +28, Intimidation +26, Lore (any one
subcategory) +29, Occultism +29, Society +27, Stealth +24
Str +6, Dex +6, Con +8, Int +7, Wis +5, Cha +6
Mucus Cloud (aura, disease) As aboleth, but DC 36, 30-foot radius, and 24 hours.
AC 34; Fort +26, Ref +22, Will +24; +2 status to all saves vs. magic
HP 270; Immunities controlled, electricity, mental; Resistances cold 20
Speed 10 feet, swim 80 feet
Melee Ȱɵ claw +30 (agile, magical, reach 20 feet), Damage 3d10+12 slashing plus slime
Melee Ȱɵ fangs +28 (agile, magical, reach 10 feet, versatile S), Damage 3d8+12 piercing
plus slime and consume memories
Melee Ȱɵ tentacle +28 (agile, electricity, magical, reach 20 feet), Damage 7d6 electricity
plus thoughtlance
Occult Innate Spells DC 37; 9th project image (at will); 8th illusory scene (at will), suggestion
(×3); 7th veil (at will); 6th dominate (×3); 5th dimension door (×3), hallucinatory terrain
(at will), illusory object (at will); 3rd hypnotic pattern (at will), levitate (at will), mind
reading (at will), secret page (at will); Constant (5th) tongues
Occult Rituals DC 37; geas (5th)
Change Shape Ȳ˓ (concentrate, occult, polymorph, transmutation) Once per round, a veiled
master can take on the appearance of a humanoid of Large, Medium, or Small size or
resume its true form. While in humanoid form, the veiled master’s Speed is 30 feet, and it
loses its mucus cloud aura and swim Speed.
If the humanoid form assumed lacks
the aquatic trait, the veiled master
loses its own aquatic trait as well. In
humanoid form, the veiled master can
use weapons, or it can make Strikes
that work like its tentacle attack but
use the reach of its current form. If
the assumed form has fangs or claws,
the veiled master can also make such
Strikes, but these attacks lack the veiled master’s slime.
Consume Memories (mental, occult) When a veiled
master makes a fangs Strike against a creature,
it can consume some of that creature’s memories. The target must succeed at a
DC 37 Fortitude saving throw or become stupeﬁed 1. A veiled master regains 5
Hit Points each time it successfully consumes memories. When
a veiled master consumes memories, it learns some of the
creature’s memories (subject to the GM’s discretion).
Delayed Suggestion (enchantment, occult) When a veiled master
successfully casts dominate on a creature, a suggestion
spell triggers when the dominate spell ends. This suggestion
usually causes the target to return to the veiled master, so
the creature can cast dominate again, but a veiled master can
set the suggestion to diﬀerent orders if it wishes.
Slime (curse, occult, virulent) As alghollthu master, but DC 36.
Tentacle Flurry ʚʖ The veiled master thrashes about with its tentacles. Make
a tentacle Strike against each creature within its reach. Roll only one attack
roll, and roll the damage only once for all targets.
Thoughtlance (curse, enchantment, occult) A creature touched by the
veiled master’s tentacles, whether those tentacles deal damage or not,
must attempt a DC 34 Will save, becoming slowed 1 on a failure or
slowed 2 on a critical failure. Each time the aﬀected creature ends its
turn, its slowed value decreases by 1.
OTHER ALGHOLLTHUS
While the veiled masters are the
rulers of alghollthu society, they are
not the most powerful of their kind.
Greater, more mysterious creatures
that function as organic thought
networks, immense aquatic engines
of war, or specialized extractors
of forgotten secrets dwell among
their sunken cities. Meanwhile,
the world above remains infested
with creatures that were originally
created by the alghollthus but have
long since drifted away from their
aquatic progenitors to become their
own sinister monstrosities.
p
,
g
ggyj ggyj
g
,
,
19668868
4425025
