OPTIONAL:
VOLUNTARY FLAWS
Sometimes, it’s fun to play a
character with a major flaw even
if you’re not playing an ancestry
that imposes one. You can elect
to take two additional ability
flaws when applying the ability
boosts and ability flaws from
your ancestry. If you do, you can
also apply one additional free
ability boost. These ability flaws
can be assigned to any ability
score you like, but you can’t apply
more than one ability flaw to the
same ability score during this
step unless you apply both of the
additional ability flaws to a score
that is already receiving an ability
boost during this step. In this
case, the first ability flaw cancels
the ability boost, and the second
ability flaw decreases the score
by 2. Likewise, as an exception
to the normal rules for ability
boosts, you can apply two free
ability boosts to an ability score
receiving an ability flaw during
this step; the first ability boost
cancels the ability flaw, and the
second ability boost increases the
score by 2. For example, a dwarf
normally gets an ability boost to
Constitution and Wisdom, along
with an ability flaw to Charisma.
You could apply one ability flaw
each to Intelligence and Strength,
or you could apply both ability
flaws to Wisdom. You could not
apply either additional ability flaw
to Charisma, though, because it is
already receiving dwarves’ ability
flaw during this step.
class provides. Don’t worry about recording the rest of your character’s class features
and abilities yet—you’ll handle that in Step 7.
6
Step 6
Determine Ability Scores
Now that you’ve made the main mechanical choices about your character, it’s time
to finalize their ability scores. Do these three things:
•	 First, make sure you’ve applied all the ability boosts and ability flaws you’ve
noted in previous steps (from your ancestry, background, and class).
•	 Then, apply four more ability boosts to your character’s ability scores,
choosing a different ability score for each and increasing that ability score
by 2.
•	 Finally, record your starting ability scores and ability modifiers, as determined
using Table 1–1: Ability Modifiers.
Remember that each ability boost adds 2 to the base score of 10, and each ability
flaw subtracts 2. You should have no ability score lower than 8 or higher than 18.
CHARACTER SHEET
Write your character’s starting ability scores in the box provided for each. Record
the ability modifier for each ability score in the box to the left of the ability’s name.
7
Step 7
Record Class Details
Now, record all the benefits and class features that your character receives from the
class you’ve chosen. While you’ve already noted your key ability score, you’ll want to
be sure to record the following class features.
•	 To determine your character’s total starting Hit Points, add together the
number of Hit Points your character gains from their ancestry (chosen in
Step 2) and the number of Hit Points they gain from their class.
•	 The Initial Proficiencies section of your class entry indicates your character’s
starting proficiency ranks in a number of areas. Choose which skills your
character is trained in and record those, along with the ones set by your class. If
your class would make you trained in a skill you’re already trained in (typically
due to your background), you can select another skill to become trained in.
•	 See the class advancement table in your class entry to learn the class features
your character gains at 1st level—but remember, you already chose an
ancestry and background. Some class features require you to make additional
choices, such as selecting spells.
CHARACTER SHEET
Write your character’s total Hit Points on the first page of your character sheet. Use
the proficiency fields (the boxes marked “T,” “E,” “M,” and “L”) on your character sheet to
record your character’s initial proficiencies in Perception, saving throws, and the skills
granted by their class; mark “T” if your character is trained, or “E” if your character is
expert. Indicate which additional skills you chose for your character to be trained in
by marking the “T” proficiency box for each skill you selected. Likewise, record your
character’s their armor proficiencies in the Armor Class section at the top of the first
page and their weapon proficiencies at the bottom of the first page. Record all other
class feats and abilities on the second page. Don’t worry yet about finalizing any values
for your character’s statistics—you’ll handle that in Step 9.
Core Rulebook
26
