Sneak Attack
When your enemy can’t properly defend itself, you take
advantage to deal extra damage. If you Strike a creature
that has the flat-footed condition (page 620) with an
agile or finesse melee weapon, an agile or finesse unarmed
attack, or a ranged weapon attack, you deal an extra 1d6
precision damage. For a ranged attack with a thrown
melee weapon, that weapon must also be agile or finesse.
As your rogue level increases, so does the number of
damage dice for your sneak attack. Increase the number
of dice by one at 5th, 11th, and 17th levels.
Surprise Attack
You spring into combat faster than foes can react. On
the first round of combat, if you roll Deception or Stealth
for initiative, creatures that haven’t acted are flat-footed
to you.
Rogue Feats
At 1st level and every even-numbered level, you gain a
rogue class feat.
Skill Feats
You gain skill feats more often than others. At 1st level
and every level thereafter, you gain a skill feat. Skill feats
can be found in Chapter 5 and have the skill trait.
Skill Increases
2nd
You gain more skill increases than members of other
classes. At 2nd level and every level thereafter, you gain a
skill increase. You can use this increase to either become
trained in one skill you’re untrained in, or to become an
expert in one skill in which you’re already trained.
At 7th level, you can use skill increases to become a
master in a skill in which you’re already an expert, and
at 15th level, you can use them to become legendary in a
skill in which you’re already a master.
Deny Advantage
3rd
As someone who takes advantage of others’ defenses,
you are careful not to leave such openings yourself.
You aren’t flat-footed to hidden, undetected, or flanking
creatures of your level or lower, or creatures of your level
or lower using surprise attack. However, they can still
help their allies flank.
General Feats
3rd
At 3rd level and every 4 levels thereafter, you gain a
general feat. General feats are listed in Chapter 5.
Ability Boosts
5th
At 5th level and every 5 levels thereafter, you boost four
different ability scores. You can use these ability boosts to
increase your ability scores above 18. Boosting an ability
score increases it by 1 if it’s already 18 or above, or by 2
if it starts out below 18.
KEY TERMS
You’ll see the following key terms in many rogue
class features.
Debilitation: Debilitations apply conditions and other
negative effects to a creature. When the creature is
affected by a new debilitation, any previous one it was
affected by ends.
Flourish: Actions with this trait are special techniques
that require too much exertion for you to perform
frequently. You can use only 1 action with the flourish
trait per turn.
181
3
CLASSES
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Skills
Feats
Equipment
Spells
The Age of
Lost OMENS
Playing the
Game
Game
mastering
Crafting
& Treasure
Appendix
