Sensate Gnome
You see all colors as brighter, hear all sounds as richer,
and especially smell all scents with incredible detail.
You gain a special sense: imprecise scent with a range of
30 feet. This means you can use your sense of smell to
determine the exact location of a creature (as explained
on page 465). The GM will usually double the range if
you’re downwind from the creature or halve the range
if you’re upwind.
In addition, you gain a +2 circumstance bonus to
Perception checks whenever you’re trying to locate an
undetected creature that is within the range of your scent.
Umbral Gnome
Whether from a connection to dark or shadowy fey,
from the underground deep gnomes also known as
svirfneblin, or another source, you can see in complete
darkness. You gain darkvision.
Wellspring Gnome
Some other source of magic has a greater hold on
you than the primal magic of your fey lineage does.
This connection might come from an occult plane
or an ancient occult song; a deity, celestial, or fiend;
magical effluent left behind by a mage war; or ancient
rune magic.
Choose arcane, divine, or occult. You gain one
cantrip from that magical tradition’s spell list (pages
307–315). You can cast this spell as an innate spell
at will, as a spell of your chosen tradition. A cantrip
is heightened to a spell level equal to half your level
rounded up. Whenever you gain a primal innate spell
from a gnome ancestry feat, change its tradition from
primal to your chosen tradition.
Ancestry Feats
At 1st level, you gain one ancestry feat, and you gain an
additional ancestry feat every 4 levels thereafter (at 5th,
9th, 13th, and 17th level). As a gnome, you select from
among the following ancestry feats.
1ST LEVEL
ANIMAL ACCOMPLICE
FEAT 1
GNOME
You build a rapport with an animal, which becomes magically
bonded to you. You gain a familiar using the rules on page
217. The type of animal is up to you, but most gnomes choose
animals with a burrow Speed.
BURROW ELOCUTIONIST
FEAT 1
GNOME
You recognize the chittering of ground creatures as its own
peculiar language. You can ask questions of, receive answers
from, and use the Diplomacy skill with animals that have a
burrow Speed, such as badgers, ground squirrels, moles, and
prairie dogs. The GM determines which animals count for
this ability.
FEY FELLOWSHIP
FEAT 1
GNOME
Your enhanced fey connection affords you a warmer reception
from creatures of the First World as well as tools to foil their
tricks. You gain a +2 circumstance bonus to both Perception
checks and saving throws against fey.
In addition, whenever you meet a fey creature in a social
situation, you can immediately attempt a Diplomacy check to
Make an Impression on that creature rather than needing to
converse for 1 minute. You take a –5 penalty to the check.
If you fail, you can engage in 1 minute of conversation and
attempt a new check at the end of that time rather than
accepting the failure or critical failure result.
Special If you have the Glad-Hand skill feat, you don’t take
the penalty on your immediate Diplomacy check if the target
is a fey.
FIRST WORLD MAGIC
FEAT 1
GNOME
Your connection to the First World grants you a primal innate
spell, much like those of the fey. Choose one cantrip from the
primal spell list (page 314). You can cast this spell as a primal
innate spell at will. A cantrip is heightened to a spell level
equal to half your level rounded up.
GNOME OBSESSION
FEAT 1
GNOME
You might have a flighty nature, but when a topic captures
your attention, you dive into it headfirst. Pick a Lore skill. You
gain the trained proficiency rank in that skill. At 2nd level,
you gain expert proficiency in the chosen Lore as well as the
Lore granted by your background, if any. At 7th level you gain
master proficiency in these Lore skills, and at 15th level you
gain legendary proficiency in them.
GNOME WEAPON FAMILIARITY
FEAT 1
GNOME
You favor unusual weapons tied to your people, such as blades
with curved and peculiar shapes. You are trained with the
glaive and kukri.
In addition, you gain access to all uncommon gnome
weapons. For the purpose of determining your proficiency,
martial gnome weapons are simple weapons and advanced
gnome weapons are martial weapons.
ILLUSION SENSE
FEAT 1
GNOME
Your ancestors spent their days cloaked and cradled in
illusions, and as a result, sensing illusion magic is second
nature to you. You gain a +1 circumstance bonus to both
Perception checks and Will saves against illusions.
Core Rulebook
44
