Subsist (Untrained)
If you need to provide food and shelter, you can use the
Subsist downtime activity. This typically uses Society if
you’re in a settlement or Survival if you’re in the wild.
SUBSIST
DOWNTIME
You try to provide food and shelter for yourself, and possibly
others as well, with a standard of living described on page 294.
The GM determines the DC based on the nature of the place
where you’re trying to Subsist. You might need a minimum
proficiency rank to Subsist in particularly strange environments.
Unlike most downtime activities, you can Subsist after 8 hours
or less of exploration, but if you do, you take a –5 penalty.
Critical Success You either provide a subsistence living for
yourself and one additional creature, or you improve your
own food and shelter, granting yourself a comfortable living.
Success You find enough food and shelter with basic protection
from the elements to provide you a subsistence living.
Failure You’re exposed to the elements and don’t get enough
food, becoming fatigued until you attain sufficient food
and shelter.
Critical Failure You attract trouble, eat something you
shouldn’t, or otherwise worsen your situation. You take a
–2 circumstance penalty to checks to Subsist for 1 week.
You don’t find any food at all; if you don’t have any stored
up, you’re in danger of starving or dying of thirst if you
continue failing.
Sample Subsist Tasks
Untrained lush forest with calm weather or large city
with plentiful resources
Trained typical hillside or village
Expert typical mountains or insular hamlet
Master typical desert or city under siege
Legendary barren wasteland or city of undead
Skill Descriptions
The following entries describe the skills in the game. The
heading for each entry provides the skill’s name, with
that skill’s key ability in parentheses. A brief description
of the skill is followed by a list of actions you can use if
you’re untrained in that skill, and then the actions you
can perform if you are trained in that skill. Some actions
list sample tasks for each rank to give you a better
sense of what you can accomplish as your proficiency
increases. As the actions of a skill aren’t comprehensive,
there may be times when the GM asks you to attempt
a skill check without using any of the listed actions, or
times when the GM asks you to roll using a different key
ability modifier.
Most skills include entries for success and failure, as
well as descriptions of what occurs on a critical success or
a critical failure. If either of the critical entries is absent,
treat those results as a success or failure, as normal.
Acrobatics (Dex)
Acrobatics measures your ability to perform tasks requiring
coordination and grace. When you use the Escape basic
action (page 470), you can use your Acrobatics modifier
instead of your unarmed attack modifier.
BALANCE [one-action]
MOVE
Requirements You are in a square that contains a narrow
surface, uneven ground, or another similar feature.
You move across a narrow surface or uneven ground,
attempting an Acrobatics check against its Balance DC. You
are flat-footed while on a narrow surface or uneven ground.
Critical Success You move up to your Speed.
Success You move up to your Speed, treating it as difficult
terrain (every 5 feet costs 10 feet of movement).
Failure You must remain stationary to keep your balance
(wasting the action) or you fall. If you fall, your turn ends.
Critical Failure You fall and your turn ends.
Sample Balance Tasks
Untrained tangled roots, uneven cobblestones
Trained wooden beam
Expert deep, loose gravel
Master tightrope, smooth sheet of ice
Legendary razor’s edge, chunks of floor falling in midair
TUMBLE THROUGH [one-action]
MOVE
You Stride up to your Speed. During this movement, you can try
to move through the space of one enemy. Attempt an Acrobatics
check against the enemy’s Reflex DC as soon as you try to enter
its space. You can Tumble Through using Climb, Fly, Swim, or
another action instead of Stride in the appropriate environment.
Success You move through the enemy’s space, treating the
squares in its space as difficult terrain (every 5 feet costs 10
feet of movement). If you don’t have enough Speed to move all
the way through its space, you get the same effect as a failure.
Failure Your movement ends, and you trigger reactions as if
you had moved out of the square you started in.
Acrobatics Trained Actions
MANEUVER IN FLIGHT [one-action]
MOVE
Requirements You have a fly Speed.
You try a difficult maneuver while flying. Attempt an Acrobatics
check. The GM determines what maneuvers are possible, but
they rarely allow you to move farther than your fly Speed.
Success You succeed at the maneuver.
Failure Your maneuver fails. The GM chooses if you simply
can’t move or if some other detrimental effect happens.
The outcome should be appropriate for the maneuver you
attempted (for instance, being blown off course if you were
trying to fly against a strong wind).
Critical Failure As failure, but the consequence is more dire.
Core Rulebook
240
