Death Effects and Instant Death
Some spells and abilities can kill you immediately or bring
you closer to death without needing to reduce you to
0 Hit Points first. These abilities have the death trait and
usually involve negative energy, the antithesis of life. If you
are reduced to 0 Hit Points by a death effect, you are slain
instantly without needing to reach dying 4. If an effect states
it kills you outright, you die without having to reach
dying 4 and without being reduced to 0 Hit Points.
Massive Damage
You die instantly if you ever take damage equal to or
greater than double your maximum Hit Points in one blow.
Temporary Hit Points
Some spells or abilities give you temporary Hit Points.
Track these separately from your current and maximum
Hit Points; when you take damage, reduce your temporary
Hit Points first. Most temporary Hit Points last for a
limited duration. You can’t regain lost temporary Hit
Points through healing, but you can gain more via other
abilities. You can have temporary Hit Points from only one
source at a time. If you gain temporary Hit Points when
you already have some, choose whether to keep the amount
you already have and their corresponding duration or to
gain the new temporary Hit Points and their duration.
Items and Hit Points
Items have Hit Points like creatures, but the rules for
damaging them are different (page 272). An item has a
Hardness statistic that reduces damage the item takes by that
amount. The item then takes any damage left over. If an item
is reduced to 0 HP, it’s destroyed. An item also has a Broken
Threshold. If its HP are reduced to this amount or lower,
it’s broken, meaning it can’t be used for its normal function
and it doesn’t grant bonuses. Damaging an unattended item
usually requires attacking it directly, and can be difficult due
to that item’s Hardness and immunities. You usually can’t
attack an attended object (one on a creature’s person).
Actions
You affect the world around you primarily by using
actions, which produce effects. Actions are most closely
measured and restricted during the encounter mode of
play, but even when it isn’t important for you to keep strict
track of actions, they remain the way in which you interact
with the game world. There are four types of actions: single
actions, activities, reactions, and free actions.
Single actions can be completed in a very short time.
They’re self-contained, and their effects are generated
within the span of that single action. During an encounter,
you get 3 actions at the beginning of your turn, which
you can use as described on page 468.
Activities usually take longer and require using multiple
actions, which must be spent in succession. Stride is a single
action, but Sudden Charge is an activity in which you use
both the Stride and Strike actions to generate its effect.
Reactions have triggers, which must be met for you to
use the reaction. You can use a reaction anytime its trigger is
met, whether it’s your turn or not. In an encounter, you get 1
reaction each round, which you can use as described on page
468. Outside of encounters, your use of reactions is more
flexible and up to the GM. Reactions are usually triggered
by other creatures or by events outside your control.
Free actions don’t cost you any of your actions per
turn, nor do they cost your reaction. A free action with no
trigger follows the same rules as a single action (except
the action cost), and a free action with a trigger follows
the same rules as a reaction (except the reaction cost).
Activities
An activity typically involves using multiple actions to
create an effect greater than you can produce with a
single action, or combining multiple single actions to
produce an effect that’s different from merely the sum of
those actions. In some cases, usually when spellcasting,
an activity can consist of only 1 action, 1 reaction, or
even 1 free action.
An activity might cause you to use specific actions
within it. You don’t have to spend additional actions to
perform them—they’re already factored into the activity’s
required actions. (See Subordinate Actions on page 462.)
You have to spend all the actions of an activity at
once to gain its effects. In an encounter, this means you
must complete it during your turn. If an activity gets
interrupted or disrupted in an encounter (page 462), you
lose all the actions you committed to it.
Exploration and Downtime Activities
Outside of encounters, activities can take minutes, hours,
or even days. These activities usually have the exploration
or downtime trait to indicate they’re meant to be used
during these modes of play. You can often do other things
off and on as you carry out these activities, provided they
aren’t significant activities of their own. For instance, if
you’re Repairing an item, you might move around to
stretch your legs or have a brief discussion—but you
couldn’t also Decipher Writing at the same time.
If an activity that occurs outside of an encounter is
interrupted or disrupted, as described in Disrupting
ACTION ICON KEY
These icons appear in stat blocks as shorthand for each
type of action.
[one-action]
Single Action
[two-actions] Two-Action Activity
[three-actions] Three-Action Activity
[reaction]
Reaction
[free-action]
Free Action
461
9
PLAYING THE GAME
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Skills
Feats
Equipment
Spells
The Age of
Lost OMENS
Playing the
Game
Game
mastering
Crafting
& Treasure
Appendix
