While the distance between their mountain Sky Citadels can create vast cultural
divides between various dwarf clans, most dwarven societies share a number of
similarities. Nearly all dwarven peoples share a passion for stonework, metalwork,
and gem-cutting. Most are highly skilled at architecture and mining, and many share
a hatred of giants, orcs, and goblinoids.
Few dwarves are seen without their clan dagger strapped to their belt. This dagger is
forged just before a dwarf’s birth and bears the gemstone of their clan. A parent uses this
dagger to cut the infant’s umbilical cord, making it the first weapon to taste their blood.
Alignment and Religion
Dwarves tend to value honor and closely follow the traditions of their clans and
kingdoms. They have a strong sense of friendship and justice, though they are often
very particular about who they consider a friend. They work hard and play harder—
especially when strong ale is involved.
The typical dwarf is lawful good or lawful neutral and prefers to worship deities of
those alignments. Torag, god of dwarvenkind, is the dwarves’ primary deity, though
worship of Torag’s family members is also common.
Names
Dwarves honor their children with names taken from ancestors or dwarven
heroes, and it’s quite rare to invent a new name or to borrow a name from
another culture for a child. When introducing themselves, dwarves tend to
list their family and clan, plus any number of other familial connections and
honorifics. Dwarven names usually contain hard consonants and are rarely more
or fewer than two syllables.
Sample Names
Agna, Bodill, Dolgrin, Edrukk, Grunyar, Ingra, Kazmuk, Kotri, Lupp, Morgrym,
Rogar, Rusilka, Torra, Yangrit
Dwarf Heritages
With their long family lines and hardy physiologies, dwarves take great pride in the
resilience their bloodlines provide. Choose one of the following dwarven heritages
at 1st level.
Ancient-Blooded Dwarf
Dwarven heroes of old could shrug off their enemies’ magic, and some of that
resistance manifests in you. You gain the Call on Ancient Blood reaction.
CALL ON ANCIENT BLOOD [reaction]
Trigger You attempt a saving throw against a magical effect, but you haven't rolled yet.
Your ancestors’ innate resistance to magic surges, before slowly ebbing down. You gain a +1
circumstance bonus to the triggering saving throw and until the end of this turn.
Death Warden Dwarf
Your ancestors have been tomb guardians for generations, and the power they
cultivated to ward off necromancy has passed on to you. If you roll a success on a
saving throw against a necromancy effect, you get a critical success instead.
Forge Dwarf
You have a remarkable adaptation to hot environments from ancestors who inhabited
blazing deserts or volcanic chambers beneath the earth. This grants you fire resistance
equal to half your level (minimum 1), and you treat environmental heat effects as
if they were one step less extreme (incredible heat becomes extreme, extreme heat
becomes severe, and so on).
Hit Points
10
Size
Medium
Speed
20 feet
Ability Boosts
Constitution
Wisdom
Free
Ability Flaw
Charisma
Languages
Common
Dwarven
Additional languages equal to
your Intelligence modifier (if it’s
positive). Choose from Gnomish,
Goblin, Jotun, Orcish, Terran,
Undercommon, and any other
languages to which you have
access (such as the languages
prevalent in your region).
Traits
Dwarf
Humanoid
Darkvision
You can see in darkness and
dim light just as well as you can
see in bright light, though your
vision in darkness is in black
and white.
2
Ancestries & backgrounds
35
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Skills
Feats
Equipment
Spells
The Age of
Lost OMENS
Playing the
Game
Game
mastering
Crafting
& Treasure
Appendix
