Wizard
During combat Encounters...
You likely try to stay out of the fray, carefully judging when to use your spells. You
save your most powerful magic to incapacitate threatening foes and use your cantrips
when only weaker foes remain. When enemies pull out tricks like invisibility or flight,
you answer with spells like glitterdust or earth bind, leveling the field for your allies.
During social encounters...
You provide a well of knowledge about arcane matters and solve arguments with logic.
While exploring...
You locate magical auras and determine the arcane significance of magical writing
or phenomena you uncover. When you run across an unusual obstacle to further
exploration, you probably have a scroll that will make it easier to overcome.
In downtime...
You learn new spells, craft magic items, or scribe scrolls for your party, and seek
out new and exciting formulas in addition to spells. You might even forge scholarly
connections and establish a school or guild of your own.
You Might...
•	 Have an unquenchable intellectual curiosity about how everything in the world
around you works—magic in particular.
•	 Believe fervently that your school of magic is superior (if you’re a specialist) or that
true mastery of magic requires knowledge of all schools (if you’re a universalist).
•	 Use esoteric jargon and technical terms to precisely describe the minutiae of
magical effects, even though the difference is probably lost on other people.
Others Probably...
•	 Consider you to be incredibly powerful and potentially dangerous.
•	 Fear what your magic can do to their minds, bodies, and souls, and ask that you
avoid casting spells in polite company, as few can identify whether one of your
spells is harmless or malevolent until it’s too late.
•	 Assume you can easily solve all their problems, from dangerous weather to poor
crop yields, and ask you for spells that can help them get whatever they desire.
You are an eternal student of the arcane secrets of the universe, using your
mastery of magic to cast powerful and devastating spells. You treat magic like a
science, cross-referencing the latest texts on practical spellcraft with ancient esoteric tomes
to discover and understand how magic works. Yet magical theory is vast, and there’s no
way you can study it all. You either specialize in one of the eight schools of magic, gaining
deeper understanding of the nuances of those spells above all others, or favor a broader
approach that emphasizes the way all magic comes together at the expense of depth.
INITIAL PROFICIENCIES
At 1st level, you gain the
listed proficiency ranks in
the following statistics. You
are untrained in anything
not listed unless you gain a
better proficiency rank in some
other way.
PERCEPTION
Trained in Perception
SAVING THROWS
Trained in Fortitude
Trained in Reflex
Expert in Will
SKILLS
Trained in Arcana
Trained in a number of additional
skills equal to 2 plus your
Intelligence modifier
ATTACKS
Trained in the club, crossbow,
dagger, heavy crossbow, and
staff
Trained in unarmed attacks
DEFENSES
Untrained in all armor
Trained in unarmored defense
SPELLS
Trained in arcane spell attacks
Trained in arcane spell DCs
3
CLASSES
203
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Skills
Feats
Equipment
Spells
The Age of
Lost OMENS
Playing the
Game
Game
mastering
Crafting
& Treasure
Appendix
KEY ABILITY
INTELLIGENCE
At 1st level, your class gives you
an ability boost to Intelligence.
HIT POINTS
6 plus your Constitution modifier
You increase your maximum number of
HP by this number at 1st level and every
level thereafter.
