Shelyn (NG)
The Eternal Rose is the goddess of art, beauty,
love, and music. She seeks to one day redeem
her corrupted brother, Zon-Kuthon. Shelyn
promotes peace and love, and she encourages her followers to
create beauty in a sometimes dark world.
Edicts be peaceful, choose and perfect an art, lead by example,
see the beauty in all things
Anathema destroy art or allow it to be destroyed, unless saving
a life or pursuing greater art; refuse to accept surrender
Follower Alignments LG, NG, CG
Devotee Benefits
Divine Font heal
Divine Skill select Crafting or Performance
Favored Weapon glaive
Domains creation, family, passion, protection
Cleric Spells 1st: color spray, 3rd: enthrall, 4th: creation
Torag (LG)
The dwarven deity called the Father of Creation
is god of the forge, protection, and strategy.
Though most widely worshipped by dwarves,
those who treasure crafting and creation also follow Torag.
Edicts be honorable and forthright, keep your word, respect
the forge, serve your people
Anathema tell lies or cheat someone, intentionally create
inferior works, show mercy to the enemies of your people
Follower Alignments LG, LN
Devotee Benefits
Divine Font heal
Divine Skill Crafting
Favored Weapon warhammer
Domains creation, earth, family, protection
Cleric Spells 1st: mindlink, 3rd: earthbind, 4th: creation
Urgathoa (NE)
The amoral Pallid Princess oversees disease,
gluttony, and undeath.
Edicts become undead upon death, create or
protect the undead, sate your appetites
Anathema deny your appetites, destroy undead, sacrifice
your life
Follower Alignments LE, NE, CE
Devotee Benefits
Divine Font harm
Divine Skill Intimidation
Favored Weapon scythe
Domains indulgence, magic, might, undeath
Cleric Spells 1st: goblin pox, 2nd: false life, 7th: mask of terror
Zon-Kuthon (LE)
The Midnight Lord is god of darkness, envy, loss,
and pain. Once a god of art, beauty, and music,
like Shelyn, he returned from a sojourn in the dark spaces
between the planes horribly changed.
Edicts bring pain to the world, mutilate your body
Anathema create permanent or long-lasting sources of light,
provide comfort to those who suffer
Follower Alignments LN, LE, NE
Devotee Benefits
Divine Font harm
Divine Skill Intimidation
Favored Weapon spiked chain
Domains ambition, darkness, destruction, pain
Cleric Spells 1st: phantom pain, 3rd: wall of thorns, 5th:
shadow walk
Faiths and Philosophies
Of course, faith can express itself in more ways than
venerating a single deity—or a deity at all. A few examples
of nondeific religions and philosophies are presented
below. Clerics can work with allied faiths and philosophies,
but the organizations here turn to other classes—such as
sorcerers with divine bloodlines, druids, or monks—to
serve as their leaders. These faiths and philosophies don’t
have an external godhead that offers benefits to devotees.
Atheism
While most concede that the gods exist, some do not view
them as worthy of worship, and a few even deny their
presence altogether.
Edicts pursue your own agenda with faith in your own ability
to excel
Anathema offer prayers to a deity
Follower Alignments all
Green Faith
The worshippers of the Green Faith count many
druids among their number. They view nature
as divine and draw strength from the knowledge
of their place in the natural order.
Edicts guide civilization to grow in harmony
with nature, preserve areas of natural wilderness, protect
endangered species
Anathema cause damage to natural settings, kill animals for
reasons other than self-defense or sustenance, allow abuse
of natural resources
Follower Alignments CN, LN, N, NE, NG
Prophecies of Kalistrade
The dream-records of an eccentric mystic teach
that wealth can be achieved through a strict
and abstemious code of behavior.
Edicts accumulate personal wealth, foster and
aid mercantile pursuits, welcome newcomers
regardless of gender or ancestry
Anathema spend money frivolously; offer money to those who
Core Rulebook
440
