ECHOING CHANNEL [one-action]
FEAT 18
CLERIC
CONCENTRATE
METAMAGIC
When you pull forth positive or negative energy, you also
create a smaller pocket of that energy. If the next action you
use is to cast a 2-action harm or heal to heal or damage a single
creature, choose one additional creature adjacent to either
you or the target. Target that creature with a 1-action version
of the same spell. This spell is the same level as the 2-action
harm or heal you cast and doesn’t cost another spell slot.
IMPROVED SWIFT BANISHMENT
FEAT 18
CLERIC
Prerequisites Swift Banishment
You easily banish creatures with your weapon. You can use
Swift Banishment as long as you have a spell slot of 5th level or
higher remaining, even if you don’t have banishment prepared.
You must sacrifice a prepared spell of 5th level or higher, and the
banishment effect you create is heightened to the level of that
spell. Your weapon serves as the special material component
of banishment, causing the target to take the –2 penalty to its
save against any banishment you cast using Swift Banishment.
20TH LEVEL
AVATAR’S AUDIENCE
FEAT 20
CLERIC
Your extensive service has made you a lesser herald of your
deity, which affords you certain privileges. First, any creature
you encounter knows instinctively that you speak for
your deity. Second, if you conduct the commune ritual to
contact your deity, you don’t have to pay any cost and you
automatically get a critical success. Third, once per day, you
can cast plane shift as a divine innate spell, but only to travel
to the realm of your deity. When you cast it this way, its
casting time is 1 minute, your religious symbol is a sufficient
tuning fork for this spell, and you appear exactly where you
want to be. If you’re in your deity’s realm due to this spell, you
can return to the point you left when you cast it by spending
a single action, which has the concentrate and divine traits.
MAKER OF MIRACLES
FEAT 20
CLERIC
Prerequisites miraculous spell
You are a conduit for truly deific power. You gain an additional
10th-level spell slot.
METAMAGIC CHANNEL [free-action]
FEAT 20
CLERIC
CONCENTRATE
Deep understanding of divine revelations into the nature of
vital essence allows you to freely manipulate the effects of
your positive or negative energy. Use 1 metamagic action
that you can perform that normally takes 1 action and can be
applied to the harm or heal spell. If you use it in this way, its
effects apply only to a harm or heal spell.
127
3
CLASSES
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Skills
Feats
Equipment
Spells
The Age of
Lost OMENS
Playing the
Game
Game
mastering
Crafting
& Treasure
Appendix
