Deities
Anyone can worship a deity, but those who do so devoutly
should take care to pursue the faith’s edicts (behaviors
the faith encourages) and avoid its anathemas (actions
considered blasphemous). Each deity below has their
alignment listed in parentheses after their name, followed
by a short description and their edicts, anathemas, and
the alignments permitted for followers. Following that are
benefits available to the most ardent devotees of the deities.
You get these benefits only if you’re a cleric of the deity
or some other rule specifically gives you a devotee benefit.
Abadar (LN)
The Master of the First Vault holds sway over cities,
the law, merchants, and wealth. Abadar seeks to
bring civilization to the wild places of the world,
encourages adherence to law, and promotes commerce and
trade within civilization. He also encourages cooperation
among the various ancestries.
Edicts bring civilization to the frontiers, earn wealth through
hard work and trade, follow the rule of law
Anathema engage in banditry or piracy, steal, undermine a
law-abiding court
Follower Alignments LG, LN, LE
Devotee Benefits
Divine Font harm or heal
Divine Skill Society
Favored Weapon crossbow
Domains cities, earth, travel, wealth
Cleric Spells 1st: illusory object, 4th: creation, 7th: magnificent
mansion
Asmodeus (LE)
The Prince of Darkness reigns over contracts,
pride, slavery, and tyranny, and he delights
in tempting mortals to the path of evil. He
promotes strict hierarchies where everyone knows their place,
and he takes advantage of order for his own selfish benefit.
Edicts negotiate contracts to your best advantage, rule
tyrannically and torture weaker beings, show subservience
to your betters
Anathema break a contract, free a slave, insult Asmodeus by
showing mercy to your enemies
Follower Alignments LE
Devotee Benefits
Divine Font harm
Divine Skill Deception
Favored Weapon mace
Domains confidence, fire, trickery, tyranny
Cleric Spells 1st: charm, 4th: suggestion, 6th: mislead
Calistria (CN)
The mischievous goddess known as the
Savored Sting extols the virtues of lust,
revenge, and trickery. Though Calistria is
most widely worshipped by elves, members
of many other ancestries follow her as well.
Edicts pursue your personal freedom, seek hedonistic thrills,
take revenge
Anathema become too consumed by love or a need for
revenge, let a slight go unanswered
Follower Alignments CG, CN, CE
Devotee Benefits
Divine Font harm or heal
Divine Skill Deception
Favored Weapon whip
Domains pain, passion, secrecy, trickery
Cleric Spells 1st: charm, 3rd: enthrall, 6th: mislead
Cayden Cailean (CG)
The Drunken Hero ascended from mortal life
on a drunken dare, becoming the god of ale,
freedom, and wine. Cayden promotes freedom
and encourages others to find their own path in life. He fights
for just causes and delights in the best indulgences.
Edicts drink, free slaves and aid the oppressed, seek glory
and adventure
Anathema waste alcohol, be mean or standoffish when drunk,
own a slave
Follower Alignments NG, CG, CN
Devotee Benefits
Divine Font heal
Divine Skill Athletics
Favored Weapon rapier
Domains cities, freedom, indulgence, might
Cleric Spells 1st: fleet step, 2nd: touch of idiocy, 5th: hallucination
Religion
Selection of a deity is critical for certain classes—like champion and cleric—but most
characters pay respect to at least one deity to find a focus in life and guide their choices,
especially in times of hardship or need. Some people instead worship a group of deities
arranged in a pantheon, follow a nondeific religion like the Green Faith, or adhere to a
specific philosophy. Note that far more deities, religions, and philosophies exist on any
world, Golarion included, than those detailed below.
THE AGE OF LOST OMENS
437
8
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Skills
Feats
Equipment
Spells
The Age of
Lost OMENS
Playing the
Game
Game
mastering
Crafting
& Treasure
Appendix
