Wands
Short, slender items typically made of wood, wands let you
cast a specific spell without expending a spell slot. They can
be used once per day, but can be overcharged to attempt
to cast them again at great risk. Each wand holds a spell
of a certain level, determined when the wand is created.
Cantrips, focus spells, and rituals can’t be placed in wands.
If you find a wand, you can try to figure out what
spell is in it. If the spell is a common spell from your
spell list or is a spell you know, you can use a single
Recall Knowledge action and automatically succeed.
If it’s not, you must Identify Magic (page 238).
Casting Spells from a Wand
A wand contains a spell that can be cast once per day.
Casting a spell from a wand requires holding the wand
in one hand and activating the item with a Cast a Spell
activity using the normal number of actions for the spell.
To cast a spell from a wand, it must be on your spell
list. Because you’re the one casting the spell, use your spell
attack roll and spell DC. The spell is of your tradition.
A spell cast from a wand doesn’t require physical
material components, but you must replace any
material component normally required to cast the spell
with a somatic component. If the spell requires a focus,
you must still have that focus to cast the spell from a
wand, and if the spell has a cost, you must still pay that
cost to cast the spell from a wand.
Overcharging a Wand
After the spell is cast from the wand for the day, you can
attempt to cast it one more time—overcharging the wand
at the risk of destroying it. Cast the Spell again, then roll
a DC 10 flat check. On a success, the wand is broken.
On a failure, the wand is destroyed. If anyone tries to
overcharge a wand when it’s already been overcharged
that day, the wand is automatically destroyed (even if it
had been repaired) and no spell is cast.
Wand Statistics
A wand’s base statistics are the same unless noted
otherwise in a special wand. It has light Bulk, and must
be held in one hand to be activated. Each wand contains
a specific level of the spell. When you activate a wand, you
can only cast the spell at the specified level, but you can
craft a wand with a heightened version of a spell.
Varying Statistics
Each type of wand has a Level and Price determined by the
spell’s level. The wand’s rarity matches the spell’s rarity.
The item’s traits also vary, based on the spell. A wand has
any traits listed in its stat block (usually just magical and
wand), plus any traits of the spell stored on it.
Crafting a Wand
For the most part, the process to Craft a wand is like that to
Craft any other magic item. When you begin the crafting
process, choose a spell to put into the wand. You have
to either cast that spell during the process, or someone
else must do so in your presence. That spell doesn’t have
its normal effects; instead, the magic is captured inside the
wand. The caster doesn’t need to pay any cost of the spell.
The casting must come from a spellcaster expending a
spell slot. You can’t make a wand from a spell that comes
from another magic item, for example.
Magic Wand
The simplest form of wand contains a spell, with Price
and level based on that spell. The wand has the magical
and wand traits, as well as the traits the spell has. The
name of a magic wand with a spell in it is simply “wand
of,” followed by the spell’s name.
MAGIC WAND
ITEM 3+
MAGICAL
 WAND
Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk L
This baton is about a foot long and contains a single spell. The
appearance typically relates to the spell within.
Activate (Cast a Spell); Frequency once per day, plus
overcharge; You Cast the Spell at the indicated level.
Type 1st-level spell; Level 3; Price 60 gp
Type 2nd-level spell; Level 5; Price 160 gp
Type 3rd-level spell; Level 7; Price 360 gp
Type 4th-level spell; Level 9; Price 700 gp
Type 5th-level spell; Level 11; Price 1,500 gp
Type 6th-level spell; Level 13; Price 3,000 gp
Type 7th-level spell; Level 15; Price 6,500 gp
Type 8th-level spell; Level 17; Price 15,000 gp
Type 9th-level spell; Level 19; Price 40,000 gp
Craft Requirements Supply a listed-level casting of the spell.
EXAMPLE MAGIC WAND
This example magic wand has the heal spell.
WAND OF HEAL
ITEM 3+
MAGICAL
 NECROMANCY
POSITIVE
 WAND
Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk L
The golden end caps on this white wooden wand are
adorned with ruby cabochons.
Activate (Cast a Spell); Frequency once per day, plus
overcharge; You cast a heal spell at the indicated level.
Type 1st-level spell; Level 3; Price 60 gp
Type 2nd-level spell; Level 5; Price 160 gp
Type 3rd-level spell; Level 7; Price 360 gp
Type 4th-level spell; Level 9; Price 700 gp
Type 5th-level spell; Level 11; Price 1,500 gp
Type 6th-level spell; Level 13; Price 3,000 gp
Type 7th-level spell; Level 15; Price 6,500 gp
Type 8th-level spell; Level 17; Price 15,000 gp
Type 9th-level spell; Level 19; Price 40,000 gp
Craft Requirements Supply a listed-level casting of heal.
597
11
Crafting & Treasure
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Skills
Feats
Equipment
Spells
The Age of
Lost OMENS
Playing the
Game
Game
mastering
Crafting
& Treasure
Appendix
