Spell Components Each spell lists the spell components
required to cast it after the action icons or text, such as “[three-actions]
material, somatic, verbal." The spell components, described in
detail below, add traits and requirements to the Cast a Spell
activity. If you can’t provide the components, you fail to Cast
the Spell.
•	 Material (manipulate)
•	 Somatic (manipulate)
•	 Verbal (concentrate)
•	 Focus (manipulate)
Disrupted and Lost Spells Some abilities and spells can
disrupt a spell, causing it to have no effect and be lost. When
you lose a spell, you’ve already expended the spell slot, spent
the spell’s costs and actions, and used the Cast a Spell activity.
If a spell is disrupted during a Sustain a Spell action, the spell
immediately ends. The full rules for disrupting actions appear
on page 462.
Spell Components
A spell description lists the components required to Cast
the Spell. For most spells, the number of components is
equal to the number of actions you must spend to Cast
the Spell. Each component adds certain traits to the
Cast a Spell activity, and some components have special
requirements. The components that appear in this book
are listed below.
Material
A material component is a bit of physical matter
consumed in the casting of the spell. The spell gains the
manipulate trait and requires you to have a free hand
to retrieve and manipulate a material component. That
component is expended in the casting (even if the spell
is disrupted).
Except in extreme circumstances, you can assume
all common components are included in a material
component pouch (page 290).
Somatic
A somatic component is a specific hand movement or
gesture that generates a magical nexus. The spell gains the
manipulate trait and requires you to make gestures. You
can use this component while holding something in
your hand, but not if you are restrained or otherwise
unable to gesture freely.
Spells that require you to touch the target require
a somatic component. You can do so while holding
something as long as part of your hand is able to touch
the target (even if it’s through a glove or gauntlet).
Verbal
A verbal component is a vocalization of words of power.
You must speak them in a strong voice, so it’s hard to
conceal that you’re Casting a Spell. The spell gains
the concentrate trait. You must be able to speak to
provide this component.
COMPONENT SUBSTITUTIONS
Some classes can substitute one component for another
or alter how a component works.
If you’re a bard Casting a Spell from the occult tradition
while holding a musical instrument, you can play that
instrument to replace any material, somatic, or verbal
components the spell requires by using the instrument as
a focus component instead. Cast a Spell gains the auditory
trait if you make this substitution. Unlike the normal rules
for a focus component, you can’t retrieve or stow the
instrument when making this substitution.
If you’re a cleric Casting a Spell from the divine tradition
while holding a divine focus (such as a religious symbol or
text), you can replace any material component the spell
requires by using the divine focus as a focus component
instead. Unlike the normal rules for a focus component,
you can’t retrieve or stow the focus when making
this substitution.
If you’re a druid Casting a Spell from the primal tradition
while holding a primal focus (such as holly and mistletoe),
you can replace any material component the spell requires
by using the primal focus as a focus component instead.
Unlike the normal rules for a focus component, you can’t
retrieve or stow the focus when making this substitution.
If you’re a sorcerer Casting a Spell from the magical
tradition that matches your bloodline, you can draw
on the magic within your blood to replace any material
component with a somatic component.
Focus
A focus is an object that funnels the magical energy of
the spell. The spell gains the manipulate trait and requires
you to either have a free hand to retrieve the focus listed
in the spell or already be holding the focus in your hand.
As part of Casting the Spell, you retrieve the focus (if
necessary), manipulate it, and can stow it again if you
so choose.
Foci tend to be expensive, and you need to acquire them
in advance to Cast the Spell.
303
7
SPELLS
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Skills
Feats
Equipment
Spells
The Age of
Lost OMENS
Playing the
Game
Game
mastering
Crafting
& Treasure
Appendix
