SAMPLE DRUID
6TH LEVEL
GREEN EMPATHY
FEAT 6
DRUID
Prerequisites leaf order
You can communicate with plants on a basic level and use
Diplomacy to Make an Impression on them and to make very
simple Requests of them. Non-creature plants typically can’t
fulfill most requests you might ask of them unless you have
access to other magic such as speak with plants. Because of
your affiliation with the leaf order, plants have a sense that
you support them, so you gain a +2 circumstance bonus on
your check to Make a Request of a plant using Green Empathy.
INSECT SHAPE
FEAT 6
DRUID
Prerequisites Wild Shape
Your understanding of life expands, allowing you to mimic a
wider range of creatures. Add the forms in insect form to your
wild shape list. Whenever you use wild shape to polymorph
into the non-flying insect form listed in pest form, the duration
is 24 hours instead of 10 minutes.
STEADY SPELLCASTING 
FEAT 6
DRUID
Confident in your technique, you don’t lose spells easily. If a
reaction would disrupt your spellcasting action, attempt a DC
15 flat check. If you succeed, your action isn’t disrupted.
STORM RETRIBUTION [reaction]
FEAT 6
DRUID
Prerequisites storm order, tempest surge order spell
Trigger An opponent adjacent to you critically hits you with a
melee weapon or melee unarmed attack.
Requirements You have at least 1 available Focus Point.
You lash out, directing a burst of storming fury toward a
creature that has harmed you. You cast tempest surge on the
triggering opponent and push that creature, moving it 5 feet
away from you if it fails its Reflex save, or 10 feet if it critically
fails. This movement is forced movement.
8TH LEVEL
FEROCIOUS SHAPE
FEAT 8
DRUID
Prerequisites Wild Shape
You have mastered the shape of ferocious dinosaurs. Add
the forms listed in dinosaur form to your wild shape list.
Whenever you use wild shape to take a form that grants you
a specific Athletics modifier, you gain a +1 status bonus to your
Athletics checks.
FEY CALLER
FEAT 8
DRUID
You have learned some of the tricks the fey use to bend primal
magic toward illusions and trickery. Add illusory disguise,
STORM DRUID
You call upon the power of nature to let loose bolts
of lightning, intense weather, and elemental spells.
ABILITY SCORES
Prioritize Wisdom. You typically stay at range, so take a
high Dexterity. You can choose whether to focus more on
your health with Constitution or be more knowledgeable
and skilled with Intelligence.
SKILLS
Acrobatics, Medicine, Nature, Survival
ORDER
Storm
FEATS
Widen Spell (1st), Storm Retribution (6th), Wind Caller
(8th), Primal Focus (12th), Invoke Disaster (18th)
PREPARED SPELLS
1st burning hands, gust of wind; Cantrips detect magic,
electric arc, know direction, light, ray of frost
Core Rulebook
136
