Saving Throw DC 30 Fortitude; Onset 10 minutes; Maximum
Duration 6 minutes; Stage 1 12d6 poison damage (1 minute);
Stage 2 16d6 poison damage (1 minute); Stage 3 20d6 poison
damage (1 minute)
WYVERN POISON
ITEM 8
ALCHEMICAL
 CONSUMABLE
 INJURY
 POISON
Price 80 gp
Usage held in 2 hands; Bulk L
Activate [three-actions] Interact
Properly harvested and preserved, the poison
from a wyvern’s sting is effective and direct.
Saving Throw DC 26 Fortitude; Maximum
Duration 6 rounds; Stage 1 5d6 poison damage
(1 round); Stage 2 6d6 poison damage (1 round);
Stage 3 8d6 poison damage (1 round)
Alchemical Tools
Alchemical tools are consumable items you don’t drink.
PHILOSOPHER’S STONE
ITEM 20
UNCOMMON
 ALCHEMICAL
 CONSUMABLE
Price —
Usage held in 2 hands; Bulk 2
Activate [one-action] Interact or 1 or more days; see below
An alchemist with the Craft Philosopher’s Stone feat can
create a philosopher’s stone once per month by spending 1
batch of infused reagents during their daily preparations
using the advanced alchemy class feature. This is the only
way to create a philosopher’s stone.
At a glance, a philosopher’s stone appears to be an ordinary,
sooty piece of natural rock. Breaking the rock open with a
Force Open action (DC 35) reveals a cavity at the stone’s
heart. The cavity is lined with a rare type of quicksilver that
can transmute base metals into precious metals or create
an elixir of rejuvenation (page 548).
To use the quicksilver, you must be legendary in Crafting
and have the Alchemical Crafting feat. You can then use the
stone’s quicksilver for one of two effects:
•	 You can apply the stone’s quicksilver to an
infused true elixir of life using an Interact
action. This turns the elixir into an infused elixir
of rejuvenation instantaneously. This doesn’t
require any crafting time or additional materials.
•	 You can spend up to a month of downtime applying
the quicksilver either to iron to create silver or to lead
to create gold. Treat this as a 20th-level task to Earn
Income using Crafting, except that you create 500 gp
worth of your chosen metal per day on a success or
750 gp worth per day on a critical success.
SILVERSHEEN
ITEM 2
ALCHEMICAL
 CONSUMABLE
Price 6 gp
Usage held in 2 hands; Bulk L
Activate [one-action] Interact
You can slather this silvery paste onto one melee weapon,
one thrown weapon, or 10 pieces of ammunition. Silversheen
spoils quickly, so once you open a vial, you must use it all
at once, rather than saving it. For the next hour, the weapon
or ammunition counts as silver instead of its normal precious
material (such as cold iron) for any physical damage it deals.
SMOKESTICK
ITEM 1+
ALCHEMICAL
 CONSUMABLE
Usage held in 2 hands; Bulk L
Activate [one-action] Interact
With a sharp twist of this item, you
instantly create a screen of thick, opaque
smoke in a burst centered on one corner of
your space. All creatures within that area are
concealed, and all other creatures are concealed to
them. The smoke lasts for 1 minute or until dispersed by
a strong wind.
Type lesser; Level 1; Price 3 gp
The radius of the burst is 5 feet.
Type greater; Level 7; Price 53 gp
The radius of the burst is 20 feet.
SNAKE OIL
ITEM 1
ALCHEMICAL
 CONSUMABLE
Price 2 gp
Usage held in 2 hands; Bulk L
Activate [one-action] Interact
You can apply snake oil onto a wound or other outward
symptom of an affliction or condition (such as sores from a
disease or discoloration from a poison). For the next hour, the
symptom disappears and the wounded or afflicted creature
doesn’t feel as if it still has the wound or affliction, though all
effects remain. A creature can uncover the ruse by succeeding
at a DC 17 Perception check, but only if it uses a Seek action
to specifically examine the snake oil’s effects.
SUNROD
ITEM 1
ALCHEMICAL
 CONSUMABLE
 LIGHT
Price 3 gp
Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk L
Activate [one-action] Interact
This 1-foot-long, gold-tipped rod glows after it’s struck on a
hard surface. For the next 6 hours, it sheds bright light in a
20-foot radius (and dim light to the next 40 feet).
TINDERTWIG
ITEM 1
ALCHEMICAL
 CONSUMABLE
 FIRE
Price 2 sp
Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk —
Activate [one-action] Interact
An alchemical substance applied to one end of this tiny wooden
stick ignites when struck against a rough surface. Creating a
flame with a tindertwig is much faster than creating a flame
with flint and steel. You can ignite the tindertwig and touch
it to a flammable object as part of the same Interact action.
Core Rulebook
554
