MULTITALENTED
FEAT 9
HUMAN
You’ve learned to split your focus between multiple classes
with ease. You gain a 2nd-level multiclass dedication feat
(for more about multiclass archetypes, see page 219), even if
you normally couldn’t take another dedication feat until you
take more feats from your current archetype.
If you’re a half-elf, you don’t need to meet the feat’s ability
score prerequisites.
13TH LEVEL
UNCONVENTIONAL EXPERTISE
FEAT 13
HUMAN
Prerequisites Unconventional Weaponry, trained in the weapon
you chose for Unconventional Weaponry
You’ve continued to advance your powers using your
unconventional weapon. Whenever you gain a class feature
that grants you expert or greater proficiency in certain
weapons, you also gain that proficiency in the weapon you
chose for Unconventional Weaponry.
Half-Elf and Half-Orc
Ancestry Feats
A human with elf or orc blood is called a half-elf
or half-orc, respectively, which is represented by the
corresponding heritage. If you have the half-elf or half‑orc
heritage, you can select from additional ancestry feats not
available to other humans.
Half-Elf Ancestry Feats
The following feats are available to half-elves.
1ST LEVEL
ELF ATAVISM
FEAT 1
HALF-ELF
Your elven blood runs particularly strong, granting you features
far more elven than those of a typical half-elf. You may also
have been raised among elves, steeped in your elven ancestors’
heritage. You gain the benefits of the elf heritage of your elven
parent or ancestors. You typically can’t select a heritage that
depends on or improves an elven feature you don’t have. For
example, you couldn’t gain the cavern elf’s darkvision ability
if you didn’t have low-light vision. In these cases, at the GM’s
discretion, you might gain a different benefit.
Special You can take this feat only at 1st level, and you
can’t retrain out of this feat or into this feat.
5TH LEVEL
INSPIRE IMITATION
FEAT 5
HALF-ELF
 Your own actions inspire your allies to great
achievements. Whenever you critically succeed at
a skill check, you automatically qualify to use the Aid
reaction when attempting to help an ally using the same
skill, even without spending an action to prepare to do so.
SUPERNATURAL CHARM
FEAT 5
HALF-ELF
The elven magic in your blood manifests as a force you can use
Core Rulebook
58
