Consequences
When you set stakes at the start of a social encounter,
give an idea of the consequences. Beyond whatever
narrative benefits player characters might gain, a social
encounter usually includes an XP award. Because these are
encounters along the same lines as combat encounters, they
grant a sizable amount of XP, typically that of a moderate
accomplishment, or even a major accomplishment if the
encounter was the culmination of long-term plans or a
significant adversary got their comeuppance.
The outcome of a social encounter should direct
the story of the game. Look for repercussions. Which
NPCs might view the PCs more favorably now? Which
might hold a grudge or formulate a new plan? A social
encounter can seal the fate of an NPC and end their story,
but this isn’t true for player characters. Even if something
looks truly dire for them, such as a death sentence, the
social encounter isn’t the end—there’s still time for
desperate heroics or a twist in the story.
Exploration
Exploration mode is intentionally less regimented than
encounters. As a result, during exploration you’ll be making
judgment calls on just about everything that happens.
Fundamentally, exploration is all about rewarding the
PCs for learning about their surroundings. To facilitate
this, it’s especially important to have and convey a clear
mental picture of the group’s surroundings. You’ll be
better able to keep track of where the players are and
describe the sights, sounds, and other sensations of their
adventuring locales. Encourage the players to have their
characters truly explore, and reward their curiosity. The
things they try to do in exploration mode show you what
they’re interested in and what they consider important.
As you play, you’ll get a good feel for the aspects of
exploration that intrigue certain players, and you can add
more of those things to your adventures or emphasize
these points in published adventures.
Stakes: Low to moderate. Exploration mode should be
used when there’s some amount of risk, but no immediate
danger. The PCs might be in an environment where they’re
likely to face monsters or hazards, but they usually stay
in exploration mode until they enter a fight or engage in
some other direct interaction.
Time Scale: When the PCs are in exploration mode,
time in the game world passes much faster than
real-world time at the table, so it’s rarely measured out
to the second or the minute. You can speed up or slow
down how quickly things are happening as needed. If it’s
important to know exactly how much time is passing,
you can usually estimate time spent in exploration mode
to 10-minute increments.
Actions and Reactions: Though exploration isn’t
broken into rounds, exploration activities assume the
PCs are spending part of their time using actions, such as
Seeking or Interacting. If they have specific actions they
want to use, they should ask; you can decide whether the
actions apply and whether to switch to encounter mode
for greater detail. PCs can use any relevant reactions that
come up during exploration mode.
EXPLORATION ACTIVITIES
In exploration mode, each player who wants to do
something beyond just traveling chooses an exploration
activity for their character. The most common activities
are Avoid Notice, Detect Magic, Hustle, and Search,
though there are many options available. While players
usually hew close to these default activities, there’s no
need for them to memorize the exploration activities and
use them exactly. Instead, allow each player to describe
what their character is doing. Then, as the GM, you can
determine which activity applies. This also means you
determine how an activity works if the character’s actions
differ from those on the list.
The following sections discuss exploration activities that
require adjudication from you beyond the guidelines for
players detailed on pages 479–480 of Chapter 9.
Detect Magic
This activity doesn’t enable characters to automatically
find every single magical aura or object during travel.
Hazards that require a minimum proficiency can’t be
found with detect magic, nor can illusions of equal or
higher level than the spell.
When characters find something magical using this
activity, let them know and give them the option to stop
and explore further or continue on. Stopping brings
you into a more roleplay-heavy scene in which players
can search through an area, assess different items, or
otherwise try to figure out the source of the magic and
what it does. Continuing on might cause the group to
miss out on beneficial magic items or trigger a magic trap.
Follow the Expert
A skilled character can help out less skilled allies who
choose to Follow the Expert. This is a good way to help a
character with a low Stealth modifier sneak around, get a
character with poor Athletics up a steep cliff, and so on.
Usually, a character who is Following the Expert can’t
perform other exploration activities or follow more than
one person at a time.
Investigate
As with Searching or Detecting Magic, the initial result
of Investigating is usually enough to give the investigator
a clue that leads into a more thorough examination, but
it rarely gives all possible information. For instance, a
character might note that the walls of a dungeon are
covered with Abyssal writing, but they would need
to stop to read the text or determine that it’s written
in blood.
Core Rulebook
496
