used as hazardous terrain in some circumstances, as can
stalactites (icicle-shaped formations that hang from the
roof of a cave) if they’re knocked loose from a ceiling
or overhang.
Walls
Natural cave walls are uneven, with nooks, crannies,
and ledges. Since most caves are formed by water, cave
walls are often damp, making them even more difficult
to Climb.
Climate
Weather is more than just set dressing to establish
mood—it has mechanical effects you can combine with
environmental components to create a more memorable
encounter. Weather can impose circumstance penalties
on certain checks, from –1 to –4 based on severity.
Fog
Fog imposes a circumstance penalty to visual Perception
checks, depending on the thickness; it causes creatures
viewed through significant amounts of fog to be
concealed; and it cuts off all visibility at half a mile or
less—possibly much less. Conditions limiting visibility
to about a mile are called mist, and those that do so to
about 3 miles are called haze.
Precipitation
Precipitation includes rain as well as colder snow, sleet,
and hail. Wet precipitation douses flames, and frozen
precipitation can create areas of snow or ice on the
ground. Drizzle or light snowfall has little mechanical
effect beyond limited visibility.
Visibility
Most forms of precipitation impose circumstance
penalties on visual Perception checks. Hail often is sparser
but loud, instead penalizing auditory Perception checks.
Especially heavy precipitation, such as a downpour of
rain or heavy snow, might make creatures concealed if
they’re far away.
Fatigue
Precipitation causes discomfort and fatigue. Anything
heavier than drizzle or light snowfall reduces the
time it takes for characters to become fatigued from
overland travel to only 4 hours. Heavy precipitation
can be dangerous in cold environments when characters
go without protection. Soaked characters treat the
temperature as one step colder (mild to severe, severe to
extreme; see Temperature below).
Thunderstorms
High winds and heavy precipitation accompany
many thunderstorms. There’s also a very small chance
that a character might be struck by lightning during
a storm. A lightning strike usually deals moderate
electricity damage, or major electricity damage in a
severe thunderstorm.
Temperature
Often, temperature doesn’t impose enough of a
mechanical effect to worry about beyond describing the
clothing the characters need to wear to be comfortable.
Particularly hot and cold weather can make creatures
fatigued more quickly during overland travel and can
cause damage if harsh enough, as shown in Table 10–13
on page 518.
Appropriate cold-weather gear (such as the winter
clothing) can negate the damage from severe cold
or reduce the damage from extreme cold to that of
particularly severe cold.
Wind
Wind imposes a circumstance penalty on auditory
Perception checks depending on its strength. It also
interferes with physical ranged attacks such as arrows,
imposing a circumstance penalty to attack rolls involving
such weapons, and potentially making attacks with them
impossible in powerful windstorms. Wind snuffs out
handheld flames; lanterns protect their flame from the
wind, but particularly powerful winds can extinguish
these as well.
Moving in Wind
Wind is difficult or greater difficult terrain when Flying.
Moving in wind of sufficient strength requires a Maneuver
in Flight action, and fliers are blown away on a critical
failure or if they don’t succeed at a minimum of one such
check each round.
Even on the ground, particularly strong winds might
require a creature to succeed at an Athletics check to
move, knocking the creature back and prone on a critical
failure. On such checks, Small creatures typically take a
–1 circumstance penalty, and Tiny creatures typically take
a –2 penalty.
DUNGEONS
Dungeon environments, which include both ruins and
contemporary buildings constructed in the wilderness,
are a fairly common venue for adventures. As an
environment, they combine urban features like doors and
buildings (page 515) with features from an underground
environment,
and
occasionally
components
from
other environments. While underground dungeons are
particularly common, you might also consider setting
your adventure in a ruin reclaimed by the forest, with
giant trees spreading their roots through the walls, or a
ruin deep in a swamp, with bogs covering access to some
of the ruin’s hidden secrets.
GAME MASTERING
517
10
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Skills
Feats
Equipment
Spells
The Age of
Lost OMENS
Playing the
Game
Game
mastering
Crafting
& Treasure
Appendix
