1
Step 1
Create a Concept
What sort of hero do you want to play? The answer to
this question might be as simple as “a brave warrior,” or as
complicated as “the child of elven wanderers, but raised in a
city dominated by humans and devoted to Sarenrae, goddess
of the sun.” Consider your character’s personality, sketch out
a few details about their past, and think about how and why
they adventure. You’ll want to peruse Pathfinder’s available
ancestries, backgrounds, and classes. The summaries on
pages 22–23 might help you match your concept with some
of these basic rule elements. Before a game begins, it’s also
a good idea for the players to discuss how their characters
might know each other and how they’ll work together
throughout the course of their adventures.
There are many ways to approach your character concept.
Once you have a good idea of the character you’d like to
play, move on to Step 2 to start building your character.
Ancestry, Background, Class, or Details
If one of Pathfinder’s character ancestries, backgrounds,
or classes particularly intrigues you, it’s easy to build a
character concept around these options. The summaries of
ancestries and classes on pages 22–23 give a brief overview
of these options (full details appear in Chapters 2 and 3,
respectively). Each ancestry also has several heritages that
might refine your concept further, such as a human with an
elf or orc parent, or an arctic or woodland elf. Additionally,
the game has many backgrounds to choose from,
representing your character’s upbringing, their family’s
livelihood, or their earliest profession. Backgrounds are
detailed later in Chapter 2, beginning on page 60.
Building a character around a specific ancestry,
background, or class can be a fun way to interact with the
world’s lore. Would you like to build a typical member
of your character’s ancestry or class, as described in the
relevant entry, or would you prefer to play a character
who defies commonly held notions about their people?
For example, you could play a dwarf with a wide-eyed
sense of wonder and a zest for change, or a performing
rogue capable of amazing acrobatic feats but with little
interest in sneaking about.
You can draw your concept from any aspect of a
character’s details. You can use roleplaying to challenge
not only the norms of Pathfinder’s fictional world, but
even real-life societal norms. Your character might
challenge gender notions, explore cultural identity, have a
disability, or any combination of these suggestions. Your
character can live any life you see fit.
Faith
Perhaps you’d like to play a character who is a devout
follower of a specific deity. Pathfinder is a rich world with
myriad faiths and philosophies spanning a wide range,
from Cayden Cailean, the Drunken Hero of good-hearted
adventuring; to Desna, the Song of Spheres and goddess of
dreaming and the stars; to Iomedae, the Inheritor, goddess
of honor, justice, and rulership. Pathfinder’s major deities
appear on pages 437–440. Your character might be so
drawn to a particular faith that you decide they should be a
champion or cleric of that deity; they might instead be a lay
worshipper who applies their faith’s teachings to daily life,
or simply the child of devout parents.
Your Allies
You might want to coordinate with other players when
forming your character concept. Your characters could
have something in common already; perhaps they are
relatives, or travelers from the same village. You might
discuss mechanical aspects with the other players, creating
characters whose combat abilities complement each
other. In the latter case, it can be helpful for a party to
include characters who deal damage, characters who can
absorb damage, and characters who can provide healing.
However, Pathfinder’s classes include a lot of choices, and
there are many options for building each type of character,
so don’t let these broad categories restrict your decisions.
CHARACTER SHEET
Once you’ve developed your character’s concept, jot down
a few sentences summarizing your ideas under the Notes
section on the third page of your character sheet. Record
any of the details you’ve already decided, such as your
character’s name, on the appropriate lines on the first page.
ANCESTRIES AND CLASSES
Each player takes a different approach to creating a
character. Some want a character who will fit well into the
story, while others look for a combination of abilities that
complement each other mechanically. You might combine
these two approaches. There is no wrong way!
When you turn the page, you’ll see a graphical
representation of ancestries and classes that provide at-a-
glance information for players looking to make the most of
their starting ability scores. In the ancestries overview on
page 22, each entry lists which ability scores it boosts, and
also indicates any ability flaws the ancestry might have.
You can find more about ability boosts and ability flaws in
Ability Scores on page 20.
The summaries of the classes on pages 22–23 list each
class’s key ability score—the ability score used to calculate
the potency of many of their class abilities. Characters
receive an ability boost in that ability score when you choose
their class. This summary also lists one or more secondary
ability scores important to members of that class.
Keep in mind a character’s background also affects their
ability scores, though there’s more flexibility in the ability
boosts from backgrounds than in those from classes. For
descriptions of the available backgrounds, see pages 60–64.
Introduction
1
21
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Skills
Feats
Equipment
Spells
The Age of
Lost OMENS
Playing the
Game
Game
mastering
Crafting
& Treasure
Appendix
