SUMMON GIANT
SPELL 5
CONJURATION
Traditions primal
Cast [three-actions] material, somatic, verbal
Range 30 feet
Duration sustained up to 1 minute
You conjure a giant to fight for you. This works like summon
animal (page 375), except you summon a common creature
that has the giant trait and whose level is 5 or lower.
Heightened As summon animal.
SUMMON PLANT OR FUNGUS
SPELL 1
CONJURATION
Traditions primal
Cast [three-actions] material, somatic, verbal
Range 30 feet
Duration sustained up to 1 minute
You conjure a plant or fungus to fight for you. This works like
summon animal (page 375), except you summon a common
creature that has the plant or fungus trait and whose level is –1.
Heightened As summon animal.
SUNBURST
SPELL 7
EVOCATION
FIRE
LIGHT
POSITIVE
Traditions divine, primal
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal
Range 500 feet; Area 60-foot burst
Saving Throw Reflex
A powerful globe of searing sunlight explodes in the area,
dealing 8d10 fire damage to creatures and objects in the
area, plus 8d10 additional positive damage to undead
creatures. Each creature and object in the area must
attempt a Reflex save.
Critical Success The creature or object is unaffected.
Success The creature or object takes half damage.
Failure The creature or object takes full damage.
Critical Failure The creature or object takes full damage. If it’s
a creature, it becomes blinded permanently.
If the globe overlaps with an area of magical darkness,
sunburst attempts to counteract the darkness effect.
Heightened (+1) The fire damage increases by 1d10, and the
positive damage against undead increases by 1d10.
SYNAPTIC PULSE
SPELL 5
ENCHANTMENT
INCAPACITATION
MENTAL
Traditions occult
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal
Range 30 feet; Area 30-foot emanation
Saving Throw Will; Duration 1 round
You emit a pulsating mental blast that penetrates the minds of
all enemies in the area. Each creature in the area must attempt
a Will save.
Critical Success The creature is unaffected.
Success The creature is stunned 1.
Failure The creature is stunned 2.
Critical Failure The creature is stunned for 1 round.
SYNESTHESIA
SPELL 5
DIVINATION
MENTAL
Traditions occult
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal
Range 30 feet; Targets 1 creature
Saving Throw Will; Duration 1 minute
The target’s senses are suddenly rewired in unexpected ways,
causing them to process noises as bursts of color, smells as
sounds, and so on. This has three effects, and the target must
attempt a Will save.
•	 Due to the distraction, the target must succeed at a DC
5 flat check each time it uses a concentrate action, or
the action fails and is wasted.
•	 The target’s difficulty processing visual input makes all
creatures and objects concealed from it.
•	 The creature has trouble moving, making it clumsy 3 and
giving it a –10-foot status penalty to its Speeds.
Critical Success The target is unaffected.
Success The target is affected for 1 round.
Failure The target is affected for 1 minute.
Critical Failure As failure, and the target is stunned 2 as it
attempts to process the sensory shifts.
Heightened (9th) You can target up to five creatures.
TALKING CORPSE
SPELL 4
UNCOMMON
NECROMANCY
Traditions divine, occult
Cast 10 minutes (material, somatic, verbal)
Range touch; Targets 1 corpse
Saving Throw Will; Duration 10 minutes
You grant the target corpse a semblance of life, which it uses
to speak the answers to three questions posed to it. This
spell calls on the physical body’s latent memories rather than
summoning back the deceased’s spirit, so the corpse must
be mostly intact for the spell to function. The more damage
the corpse has taken, the more inaccurate or patchwork its
answers are, and it must have a throat and mouth to speak
at all. If anyone has previously cast this spell on the corpse
in the last week, the spell automatically fails. The corpse can
attempt a Will save to resist answering the questions using
the statistics of the original creature at its time of death,
with the following effects.
Critical Success The target can lie or refuse to answer your
questions, and the target’s spirit haunts you for 24 hours,
bothering you and causing you to be unable to gain any rest
for that time.
Success The target can provide false information or refuse
to answer your questions.
Failure The target must answer truthfully, but its answers can
be brief, cryptic, and repetitive. It can still mislead you or
attempt to stall so that the spell’s duration runs out before
you can ask all your questions.
Critical Failure As failure, but the target’s answers are
more direct and less repetitive, though still cryptic. It
takes a –2 status penalty to Deception checks to deceive
or mislead you.
Core Rulebook
376
