Skills
In the second box to the right of each skill name on your
character sheet, there’s an abbreviation that reminds you
of the ability score tied to that skill. For each skill in which
your character is trained, add your proficiency bonus for
that skill (typically +3 for a 1st-level character) to the
indicated ability’s modifier, as well as any other applicable
bonuses and penalties, to determine the total modifier for
that skill. For skills your character is untrained in, use the
same method, but your proficiency bonus is +0.
CHARACTER SHEET
For Perception and saving throws, write your proficiency
bonus and the appropriate ability modifier in the boxes
provided, then record the total modifier in the large space.
Record the proficiency bonuses, ability modifiers, and total
modifiers for your melee Strikes and ranged Strikes in the
box after the name of each weapon, and put the damage
for each in the space below, along with the traits for that
attack. For skills, record the relevant ability modifier and
proficiency bonus in the appropriate box for each skill, and
then write the total skill modifiers in the spaces to the left.
If your character has any modifiers, bonuses, or
penalties from feats or abilities that always apply, add
them into the total modifiers. For ones that apply only in
certain situations, note them next to the total modifiers.
10 Step 10
Finishing Details
Now add the following details to your character sheet in
the appropriate spaces.
Alignment
Your character’s alignment is an indicator of their
morality and personality. There are nine possible
alignments in Pathfinder, as shown on Table 1–2: The
Nine Alignments. If your alignment has any components
other than neutral, your character gains the traits of those
alignment components. This might affect the way various
spells, items, and creatures interact with your character.
Your character’s alignment is measured by two pairs of
opposed values: the axis of good and evil and the axis of
law and chaos. A character who isn’t committed strongly
to either side is neutral on that axis. Keep in mind that
alignment is a complicated subject, and even acts that might
be considered good can be used for nefarious purposes, and
vice versa. The GM is the arbiter of questions about how
specific actions might affect your character’s alignment.
If you play a champion, your character’s alignment
must be one allowed for their deity and cause
(pages 437–440 and 106–107), and if you play a cleric,
your character’s alignment must be one allowed for their
deity (pages 437–440).
Core Rulebook
28
