SAMPLE CHAMPION
that action. This Strike doesn’t count toward your multiple
attack penalty, and your multiple attack penalty doesn’t apply
to this Strike.
LITANY AGAINST WRATH
FEAT 6
CHAMPION
Prerequisites devotion spells, tenets of good
You excoriate a foe for its wrath against goodly creatures. You
can cast the litany against wrath devotion spell. Increase the
number of Focus Points in your focus pool by 1.
LOYAL WARHORSE
FEAT 6
CHAMPION
Prerequisites divine ally (steed)
You and your mount have grown closer, and your loyalty to
each other is unbreakable. The mount you gained through the
divine ally class feature is now a mature animal companion
(page 214). In addition, your mount never attacks you, even if
it is magically compelled to do so.
SHIELD WARDEN
FEAT 6
CHAMPION
Prerequisites divine ally (shield), tenets of good
You use your shield to protect your allies as well as yourself.
When you have a shield raised, you can use your Shield Block
reaction when an attack is made against an ally adjacent to
you. If you do, the shield prevents that ally from taking damage
instead of preventing you from taking damage, following the
normal rules for Shield Block.
SMITE EVIL [one-action]
FEAT 6
CHAMPION
Prerequisites divine ally (blade)
Your blade ally becomes an even more powerful tool against
evildoers. Select one foe you can see. Until the start of your
next turn, your Strikes with the weapon your blade ally inhabits
against that foe deal an extra 4 good damage, increasing to 6
if you have master proficiency with this weapon.
If the foe attacks one of your allies, the duration extends to
the end of that foe’s next turn. If the foe continues to attack
your allies each turn, the duration continues to extend.
8TH LEVEL
ADVANCED DEITY’S DOMAIN
FEAT 8
CHAMPION
Prerequisites Deity’s Domain
Through your conviction, you have glimpsed the deeper
secrets of your deity’s domain. You gain an advanced domain
spell from the domain you chose with Deity’s Domain. You
can cast that spell as a devotion spell. Increase the number of
Focus Points in your focus pool by 1.
GREATER MERCY
FEAT 8
CHAMPION
Prerequisites Mercy
REDEEMER
Your truth and compassion glow strong as the sun,
bringing the evil into the light of your goddess, the
Dawnflower.
ABILITY SCORES
Take a high Strength for your combat abilities, and a
good Charisma for your devotion spells.
SKILLS
Athletics, Diplomacy, Religion, Medicine
DEITY AND CAUSE
Sarenrae, redeemer
STARTING FEAT
Deity’s Domain (truth)
HIGHER-LEVEL FEATS
Shining Oath (2nd), Mercy (4th), Litany Against Wrath
(6th), Sense Evil (8th), Devoted Focus (10th), Lasting
Doubt (12th), Ultimate Mercy (18th)
Core Rulebook
112
