You can estimate how long a campaign will take by
looking at the amount of time you actually have to play, or
the number of character levels you intend the characters
to advance. It typically takes three to four sessions for a
group to level up. Since you’ll probably cancel sessions
on occasion, playing once a week for a year results in
roughly a 14-level campaign, playing every 2 weeks for a
year gives you an 8-level campaign, and playing monthly
allows for a 5-level campaign. If you play only once a
month, you might consider holding longer sessions and
using fast advancement (page 509).
It’s entirely okay to have a campaign with an indefinite
length. Many groups play through one adventure and
then decide to take on another. If you run an indefinite
campaign, however, avoid ongoing plots that you can’t
satisfactorily end if the campaign comes to a close after
the next adventure. If you introduce an overwhelmingly
powerful villain who’s crucial to the story but can’t be
stopped until the player characters are 15th level, ending
the campaign at 8th level will feel anticlimactic.
It pays to be conservative when estimating your
campaign length and scope. It’s always tempting to run a
20-level epic campaign with complex, interwoven plots,
but such games can fall apart long before the end if your
group can play only once a month and the players have
other responsibilities.
Expected Duration
Not every campaign ends at the same point. Some
campaigns go all the way to 20th level, ending after the
player characters attain the height of power and confront
the greatest threats any mortal could face. Others end at
a lower level, after the group takes down a major villain
or solves a crucial problem. And still other campaigns
end when players become unable to attend or decide its a
good time to stop playing.
You should have an end point in mind when you start
a campaign. Still, you have to be flexible, since you’re
telling the story alongside other players, and your initial
expectations for the campaign may be proven incorrect.
When you think you’re heading toward a satisfying
conclusion, it’s useful to check in with the other players.
You might say, “I think we have about two sessions left.
Does that work for everyone? Is there any unfinished
business you want to take care of?” This lets you gauge
whether your assumptions match up with the rest of the
group—and make any necessary adjustments.
THEMES
The themes you choose for your campaign are what
distinguish it from other campaigns. They include the
major dramatic questions of your story and the repeated
use of certain environments or creatures, and they can
Core Rulebook
484
