Difficult terrain such as thick undergrowth usually
slows down progress. Unless it’s important how far the
group gets in a particular time frame, this can be covered
with a quick description of chopping through the vines or
trudging through a bog. If the characters are on a deadline,
adjust their progress on Table 9–2: Travel Speed (page 479),
typically cutting it in half if almost all of the land is difficult
terrain or to one-third for greater difficult terrain.
Hazardous terrain, such as the caldera of an active
volcano, might physically harm the player characters.
The group might have the option to travel directly
through or go around by spending more time. You can
transition into a more detailed scene while the characters
move through hazardous terrain and attempt to mitigate
the damage with spells or skill checks. If they endure
hazardous terrain, consider giving the PCs a minor or
moderate XP reward at the end of their exploration, with
slightly more XP if they took smart precautions to avoid
taking damage.
Dangerous crevasses, swampy bogs, quicksand, and
similar dangers are environmental hazards, which are
described beginning on page 512.
HAZARDS
Exploration can get broken up by traps and other hazards
(see Hazards on page 520). Simple hazards pose a threat
to the PCs only once and can be dealt with in exploration
mode. Complex hazards require jumping into encounter
mode until the hazard is dealt with. Disabling a trap or
overcoming a hazard usually takes place in encounter
mode. PCs have a better chance to detect hazards while
exploring if they’re using the Search activity (and the
Detect Magic activity, in the case of some magic traps).
ROLLING INITIATIVE
Transitioning from exploration to an encounter usually
involves rolling for initiative. Call for initiative once a
trap is triggered, as soon as two opposing groups come
into contact, or when a creature on one side decides to
take action against the other. For example:
•	 A group of PCs are exploring a cavern. They enter
a narrow passage patrolled by a group of kobold
warriors. Now that the two groups are in the same
area, it’s time to roll initiative.
•	 Amiri and a kobold champion agree to have
a friendly wrestling match. They square off
on a patch of dirt, and you call for initiative
using Athletics.
•	 Merisiel and Kyra are negotiating with the kobold
king. Things aren’t going well, so Merisiel decides
to launch a surprise attack. As soon as she says
this is her plan, you call for initiative.
•	 Harsk and Ezren are trying to Balance across a
narrow beam to reach an isolated kobold treasure
trove. When they get halfway across, a red dragon
who was hiding behind the mountain flies around
to attack! As soon as the dragon makes its
appearance, you call for an initiative roll.
Initiative after Reactions
In some cases, a trap or a foe has a reaction that tells
you to roll initiative. For instance, a complex trap that’s
triggered might make an attack with its reaction before
the initiative order begins. In these cases, resolve all the
results of the reaction before calling for initiative rolls.
Choosing the Type of Roll
When choosing what type of roll to use for initiative,
lean toward the most obvious choice. The most common
roll is Perception; this is what the kobolds would use in
the first example, as would Kyra and the kobold king
in the third example. The next most common skills to
use are Stealth (for sneaking up, like the dragon in the
last example) and Deception (for tricking opponents,
like Merisiel in the third example). For social contests,
it’s common to use Deception, Diplomacy, Intimidation,
Performance, or Society.
If you’re unsure what roll to call for, use Perception.
If a different type of roll could make sense for a character,
EXPLORATION ACTIVITIES
The following exploration activities are fully detailed on
pages 479–480 of Chapter 9. Many more appear within
Chapter 4: Skills.
•	 Avoid Notice
•	 Defend
•	 Detect Magic
•	 Follow the Expert
•	 Hustle
•	 Investigate
•	 Repeat a Spell
•	 Scout
•	 Search
Improvising New Activities
If a player wants to do something not covered by other
rules, here are some guidelines. If the activity is similar
to an action someone could use in an encounter, such
as Avoid Notice, it usually consists of a single action
repeated roughly 10 times per minute (such as using the
Sneak action 10 times) or an alternation of actions that
works out similarly (such as Search, which alternates
Stride and Seek). An activity using a quicker pace,
corresponding to roughly 20 actions per minute, might
have limited use or cause fatigue, as would one requiring
intense concentration.
You might find that a player wants to do something
equivalent to spending 3 actions every 6 seconds, just like
they would in combat. Characters can exert themselves to
this extent in combat only because combat lasts such a
short time—such exertion isn’t sustainable over the longer
time frame of exploration.
Core Rulebook
498
