target succeeds, it is subject to the effects of a failure instead.
If the target fails, it is reduced to 0 Hit Points and dies.
HAMMER OF FORBIDDANCE
HAZARD 11
MAGICAL
MECHANICAL
TRAP
Stealth DC 30 (expert)
Description An enormous hammer at an edifice’s entrance
swings down in an attempt to damage a creature entering
an area, push it back, and prevent it from going any further.
Disable Thievery DC 28 (expert) once on the hammer itself
and once on its joint to prevent the hammer from swinging
AC 32; Fort +24, Ref +15
Hammer Hardness 22, Hammer HP 88 (BT 44); Joint Hardness
16, Joint HP 64 (BT 32); Immunities critical hits, object
immunities, precision damage
Forbid Entry [reaction] (abjuration, attack, divine); Trigger A creature
attempts to enter through the entrance. Effect The hammer
swings down, making an attack against the triggering creature.
Melee hammer +28, Damage 6d8+20 bludgeoning plus the
target is knocked back 10 feet and must succeed at a DC
30 Will save or be unable to enter the edifice through
any entrance for 24 hours (on a critical hit, the target
automatically fails the Will save); no multiple attack penalty
Reset The trap resets over the course of the round, and is
ready to swing again 1 round later.
POLYMORPH TRAP
HAZARD 12
MAGICAL
TRAP
Stealth DC 34 (trained)
Description A Druidic glyph tries to transforms a trespasser
into an animal.
Disable Thievery DC 32 (master) to drain the glyph’s power
harmlessly, or dispel magic (6th level; counteract DC 30) to
counteract the glyph
Baleful Polymorph [reaction] (primal, transmutation); Trigger
A creature moves within 30 feet of the glyph without
speaking the passphrase in Druidic. Effect The creature is
targeted by baleful polymorph (DC 32 Will save).
PLANAR RIFT
HAZARD 13
MAGICAL
TRAP
Stealth DC 35 (trained)
Description A rift attempts to draw creatures into another
plane (the GM chooses the specific plane).
Disable Thievery DC 33 (master) to assemble a rift seal using
objects strongly grounded to your plane, or dispel magic
(7th level; counteract DC 31) to counteract the rift
Into the Great Beyond [reaction] (conjuration, occult, teleportation);
Trigger A creature moves within 10 feet of the rift. Effect The
triggering creature and all creatures within 30 feet of the
rift are drawn into another plane. Each creature can attempt
a DC 33 Reflex save to avoid this fate.
FROZEN MOMENT
HAZARD 17
MAGICAL
TRAP
Stealth DC 40 (master)
Description Warding magic attempts to trap intruders or
would-be thieves in a disrupted time flow.
Disable Thievery DC 38 (legendary) to rapidly disassemble
the spell’s myriad components in a single blink of an eye;
or dispel magic (9th level; counteract DC 36) to counteract
the trap before it triggers or to counteract the effect on one
creature after the trap is triggered
Adrift in Time [reaction] (occult, transmutation); Trigger A creature
touches the warded object or area. Effect The triggering
creature and all creatures within 30 feet are trapped
in a disrupted time flow (DC 38 Fortitude negates). The
creatures’ minds move so quickly that each round seems to
last a century, but their bodies and magical energies move
so slowly that they can’t use any actions except Recall
Knowledge. An affected creature must attempt a DC 36 Will
saving throw against a warp mind spell immediately and
again for every minute of real time that passes while the
creature is trapped in the frozen moment. This effect has an
unlimited duration but can be counteracted.
VORPAL EXECUTIONER
HAZARD 19
MECHANICAL
TRAP
Stealth DC 43 (expert)
Description A wickedly sharp saw blade descends and
travels along grooves in a complex path throughout the room,
attempting to decapitate everyone within.
Disable Thievery DC 41 (expert) at four different junctions to
jam all the saw blade’s possible paths, preventing it from
traveling through the room
AC 43; Fort +32, Ref +32
Hardness 30; HP 120 (BT 60) per junction; Immunities critical
hits, object immunities, precision damage
Total Decapitation [reaction] (attack, death); Trigger A creature
attempts to exit the room. Effect The saw blade travels
along its path, making one Strike against each creature in
the room, twisting and varying its height for a maximum
chance of beheading its targets.
Melee saw blade +40 (deadly d12), Damage 6d12+25 slashing
plus decapitation; no multiple attack penalty
Decapitation On a critical hit, a target must succeed at a DC
39 Fortitude save or be decapitated, dying instantly unless
it can survive without a head.
Reset The trap resets over the course of the round and can be
triggered again 1 round later.
SECOND CHANCE
HAZARD 21
MAGICAL
TRAP
Stealth DC 44 (legendary)
Description Powerful warding magic tied to an object or
location tries to regress the ages of a creature and its allies.
Disable Thievery DC 46 (legendary) to take apart the spell one
tiny piece at a time, with eyes closed, while recalling every
vivid life memory in order, starting from the earliest memory
In the Beginning [reaction] (divine, transmutation); Trigger A creature
tries to steal the object or intrude upon the location. If
someone uses a proxy or dupe for the theft or intrusion, the
GAME MASTERING
525
10
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Skills
Feats
Equipment
Spells
The Age of
Lost OMENS
Playing the
Game
Game
mastering
Crafting
& Treasure
Appendix
