Elven Curve Blade: Essentially a longer version
of the scimitar, this traditional elven weapon
has a thinner blade than its cousin.
Falchion: This weapon is a heavier,
two‑handed version of the curved-bladed
scimitar. It is weighted toward the blade’s
end, making it a powerful slashing weapon.
Filcher’s Fork: This halfling weapon looks like a
long, two-pronged fork and is used as both a weapon
and a cooking implement.
Flail: This weapon consists of a wooden handle
attached to a spiked ball or cylinder by a chain, rope, or
strap of leather.
Gauntlet: A pair of these metal gloves comes with
full plate, half plate, and splint armor; they can also
be purchased separately and worn with other types
of armor. They not only protect your hands but also
transform your hands into lethal weapons.
Glaive: This polearm consists of a long,
single-edged blade on the end of a 7-foot
pole. It is extremely effective at delivering
lethal cuts at a distance.
Gnome Flickmace: More a flail than
a mace, this weapon has a short handle
attached to a length of chain with a ball at the
end. The ball is propelled to its reach with the flick of
the wrist, the momentum of which brings the ball back
to the wielder after the strike.
Gnome Hooked Hammer: This gnome tool and
weapon features a hammer at one end and a curved
pick on the other. It’s such a strange and awkward
weapon that others think the gnomes are slightly
erratic for using it.
Greataxe: This large battle axe is too heavy to
wield with only one hand. Many greataxes
incorporate two blades, and they are often
“bearded,” having a hook at the bottom to
increase the strength of their chopping power.
Greatclub: While many greatclubs are
intricately carved, others are little more than
a sturdy tree branch. These massive clubs are too
heavy to wield with only one hand.
Greatpick: This pick has a longer handle and
broader head than a regular pick. It is too heavy to
wield in one hand.
Greatsword: This immense two-handed sword is
nearly as tall as its wielder. Its lower blade is often
somewhat dulled to allow it to be gripped for extra
leverage in close-quarter fights.
Guisarme: This polearm bears a long, often one‑sided,
curved blade with a hook protruding from the blunt
side of the blade, which can allow its wielder to trip
opponents at a distance. Its shaft is usually 8 feet long.
Halberd: This polearm has a relatively short,
5-foot shaft. The business end is a long spike with an
axe blade attached.
Halfling Sling Staff: This staff ends in a
Y-shaped split that cradles a sling. The length of
the staff provides excellent leverage when used
two‑handed to fling rocks or bullets from the sling.
Hand Crossbow: Sometimes referred to as an alley
bow by rogues or ruffians, this small crossbow fires small
bolts that are sometimes used to deliver poison to the
target. It’s small enough to be shot one-handed, but it still
requires two hands to load.
Hatchet: This small axe can be used in close combat
or thrown.
Heavy Crossbow: This large crossbow is harder to
load and more substantial than a regular crossbow, but
it packs a greater punch.
Horsechopper: Created by goblins to battle
horses, this weapon is essentially a long shaft ending
in a blade with a large hook.
Javelin: This thin spear is well balanced for
throwing but is not designed for melee use.
Kama: Similar to a sickle and used in some
regions to reap grain, a kama has a short,
slightly curved blade and a wooden handle.
Katana: A katana is a curved, single-edged
sword known for its wickedly sharped blade.
Katar: Also known as punching daggers, katars
are characterized by their H-shaped hand grip that allows
the blade to jut out from the knuckles.
Kukri: The blade of this foot-long knife curves inward
and lacks a cross guard at the hilt.
Lance: This spear-like weapon is used by a mounted
creature to deal a great deal of damage.
Light Hammer: This smaller version of the warhammer
has a wooden or metal shaft ending in a metal head.
Unlike its heavier cousin, it is light enough to throw.
Light Mace: A light mace has a short wooden or
metal shaft ending with a dense metal head. Used
much like a club, it delivers heavy bludgeoning
blows, but with extra power derived from the
head’s metal ridges or spikes.
Light Pick: A light pick is a modified mining implement
with a wooden shaft ending in a pick head crafted more
to pierce armor and flesh than chip rocks.
Longbow: This 5-foot-tall bow, usually made of a
single piece of elm, hickory, or yew, has a powerful
draw and is excellent at propelling arrows with
great force and at an extreme distance. You must
use two hands to fire a longbow, and it can’t be used
while mounted.
Longspear: This very long spear, sometimes called a
pike, is purely for thrusting rather than throwing. Used
by many soldiers and city watch for crowd control and
defense against charging enemies, it must be wielded
with two hands.
Longsword: Longswords can be one-edged or
two‑edged swords. Their blades are heavy and they’re
between 3 and 4 feet in length.
EQUIPMENT
6
285
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Skills
Feats
Equipment
Spells
The Age of
Lost OMENS
Playing the
Game
Game
mastering
Crafting
& Treasure
Appendix
