The Mwangi Expanse is home to a wide array of
civilizations, both past and present, even as it holds the
largest stretch of wilderness in the Inner Sea region. In
fact, one of the first civilizations to rise from the ashes
after Earthfall rose here in this land—the nation of Shory
and its astounding flying cities, from which many modern
customs of magic stem.
Some Mwangi cities and kingdoms were lost far more
recently than those ancient wonders. When the Eye of
Abendego formed just over a century ago, its winds and
waves flooded two significant realms along Garund’s
west coast. Where once stood the nations of Lirgen and
Yamasa now stretch only the Sodden Lands, a swath
of swampland and salt marshes held by rival gangs of
scavengers and monsters. Even more recently, a powerful
city-state in the heart of the Mwangi Jungle, Usaro, fell
when its brutal leader, Ruthazek the Gorilla King, was
slain by adventurers. Usaro has been without a leader for
only a few short years, but already its violent inhabitants
have caused significant damage in their anarchic rioting.
A long lineage of demonically infused Gorilla Kings has
ruled Usaro over the centuries, and so a new one will
likely soon rise to seize control of Usaro, for the moment
this sinister region lacks a head to focus its wrath.
Despite these instances of ruin and destruction, the
Mwangi Expanse hosts a wealth of diverse and powerful
city-states within its reaches. In Bloodcove, the ruthless
mercantile league of the Aspis Consortium rules. Farther
south along the coast stands Senghor, whose stance
against both piracy and slavery place the city in stark
contrast to its northern neighbor. The city-state of
Nantambu lies far upstream from Bloodcove on the Vanji
River, where its citizens carry on the ancient traditions
of Old-Mage Jatembe in combining arcane and primal
magic. Far to the southeast stands Mzali, which lies
under the oppressive rule of the undead child-king
Walkena, though a group of dissidents called the Bright
Lions works to build resistance to the mummy’s reign.
Then there is the city of Kibwe, where within its walls
dwell an eclectic mix of people who have journeyed
from afar to seek trade and companionship.
Farther south from these independent city-states lies the
recently freed nation of Vidrian. Originally established as
the Chelish colony of Sargava, Vidrian has now seized its
own destiny and cast off its colonial shackles. In so doing,
the young nation has exposed itself to the predations
of pirates and worse, yet to its citizens, freedom from
oppression is well worth that price.
Mwangi Expanse
Core Rulebook
426
