Ranger
You have studied hunting, tracking, and wilderness
survival, adding a ranger’s tools to your skill set.
Multiclass Ranger characters
The ranger archetype has access to excellent options to
improve a character’s monster knowledge and survival
skills, but ranger is of particular interest to any character
wanting to become a dedicated archer.
•	 Alchemist rangers can add snares to their daily
free items, benefiting from a strong Crafting
modifier, and their Intelligence makes them
exceptional with monster knowledge feats. The
ranger archetype is also useful to bombers who
want to alternate with in bow attacks.
•	 Champion rangers are particularly fitting for
deities who connect thematically to nature or have
a bow as their favored weapon. (Or, in the case of
Erastil, both!)
•	 Fighter rangers are among the most fearsome
archers, combining the best archery feats from
both classes to create a fighting style unique to
each fighter ranger.
•	 Rogue rangers make excellent snipers or ranged
skirmishers, and snares let them be on the other
side of traps for a change.
•	 Spellcaster rangers benefit greatly from ranger’s
feat support, backing up their spells with ranged
weapon attacks. Druids have the most thematic
overlap with rangers among the spellcasters,
allowing you to create a true master of
the wilderness.
RANGER DEDICATION
FEAT 2
ARCHETYPE
DEDICATION
MULTICLASS
Prerequisites Dexterity 14
You become trained in Survival; if you were already trained
in Survival, you instead become trained in another skill of
your choice. You become trained in ranger class DC.
You can use the Hunt Prey action (page 168).
Special You cannot select another dedication
feat until you have gained two other feats from the
ranger archetype.
BASIC HUNTER’S TRICK 
FEAT 4
ARCHETYPE
Prerequisites Ranger Dedication
You gain a 1st- or 2nd-level ranger feat.
RANGER RESILIENCY 
FEAT 4
ARCHETYPE
Prerequisites Ranger Dedication, class granting no more Hit
Points per level than 8 + your Constitution modifier
You gain 3 additional Hit Points for each ranger archetype
class feat you have. As you continue selecting ranger
archetype class feats, you continue to gain additional Hit
Points in this way.
ADVANCED HUNTER’S TRICK 
FEAT 6
ARCHETYPE
Prerequisites Basic Hunter’s Trick
You gain one ranger feat. For the purpose of meeting
its prerequisites, your ranger level is equal to half your
character level.
Special You can select this feat more than once. Each time
you select it, you gain another ranger feat.
MASTER SPOTTER 
FEAT 12
ARCHETYPE
Prerequisites Ranger Dedication, expert in Perception
Your proficiency rank in Perception increases to master.
Core Rulebook
228
