Blue
Chromatic
Line of electricity
Green
Chromatic
Cone of poison
Red
Chromatic
Cone of fire
White
Chromatic
Cone of cold
Brass
Metallic
Line of fire
Bronze
Metallic
Line of electricity
Copper
Metallic
Line of acid
Gold
Metallic
Cone of fire
Silver
Metallic
Cone of cold
Anathema
Letting a personal insult against you slide is anathema to
your instinct. Choose whether your character respects or
abhors your dragon type. If you respect it, defying such a
dragon is anathema, and if you abhor it, failing to defeat
such a dragon you come across is anathema.
Draconic Rage (Instinct Ability)
While raging, you can increase the additional damage
from Rage from 2 to 4 and change its damage type to
match that of your dragon’s breath weapon instead of the
damage type for your weapon or unarmed attack. If you
do this, your Rage action gains the arcane and evocation
traits, as well as the trait matching the damage type.
Specialization Ability
When you use draconic rage, you increase the additional
damage from Rage from 4 to 8. If you have greater
weapon specialization, instead increase the damage from
Rage when using draconic rage from 8 to 16.
Raging Resistance
You resist piercing damage and the damage type of your
dragon’s breath weapon.
Fury Instinct
Your rage comes from a deep and purely personal well
within you. You use your rage as you choose.
Anathema and Instinct Ability
You don’t have an anathema or an instinct ability. Instead,
you gain an additional 1st-level barbarian feat.
Specialization Ability
Increase the additional damage from Rage from 2 to 6. If
you have greater weapon specialization, instead increase
the additional damage from Rage to 12.
Raging Resistance
You resist physical weapon damage, but not physical
damage from other sources (such as unarmed attacks).
Giant Instinct
Your rage gives you the raw power and size of a giant. This
doesn’t necessarily mean you revere giants—you might
scoff at them or even aspire to slay them! You could instead
seem like a giant to other people due to your exceptional
strength or larger-than-life emotions and ego.
Anathema
Failing to face a personal challenge of strength is anathema.
Titan Mauler (Instinct Ability)
You can use a weapon built for a Large creature if you
are Small or Medium (both normally and when raging). If
you’re not Small or Medium, you can use a weapon built
for a creature one size larger than you. You gain access to
one weapon one size larger than you, of any weapon type
otherwise available at character creation. It has the normal
Price and Bulk for a weapon of its size (page 295). When
wielding such a weapon in combat, increase your additional
damage from Rage from 2 to 6, but you have the clumsy
1 condition (page 618) because of the weapon’s unwieldy
size. You can’t remove this clumsy condition or ignore its
penalties by any means while wielding the weapon.
Specialization Ability
Increase the damage from Rage when using a larger weapon
from 6 to 10; if you have greater weapon specialization,
increase it from 10 to 18.
Raging Resistance
You resist bludgeoning damage and your choice of cold,
electricity, or fire, chosen when you gain raging resistance.
Spirit Instinct
Whether you are emotionally sensitive to the spirits around
you; worship ancestors or apparitions; or are haunted by
the specter of an ancestor, relative, friend, or foe, your rage
takes the form of a spiritual possession.
Anathema
Disrespecting corpses or spirits is anathema to your
instinct; defending yourself against undead creatures is not.
Spirit Rage (Instinct Ability)
When you are raging, you can increase your damage from
Rage from 2 to 3 and deal negative or positive damage,
KEY TERMS
You’ll see the following key terms in many barbarian
class features.
Flourish: Flourish actions are techniques that require
too much exertion to perform a large number in a row.
You can use only 1 action with the flourish trait per turn.
Instinct: Instinct abilities require a specific instinct; you
lose access if you perform acts anathema to your instinct.
Open: These maneuvers work only as your first salvo on
your turn. You can use an open action only if you haven’t
used an action with the attack or open trait yet this turn.
Rage: You must be raging to use abilities with the rage
trait, and they end automatically when you stop raging.
87
3
CLASSES
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Skills
Feats
Equipment
Spells
The Age of
Lost OMENS
Playing the
Game
Game
mastering
Crafting
& Treasure
Appendix
