creating a sacred space. While within the area, worshippers
of your deity gain a +1 status bonus to attack rolls, skill
checks, saving throws, and Perception checks, and creatures
anathema to your deity (such as undead for Pharasma or
Sarenrae) take a –1 status penalty to those checks. Attacks
made by worshippers of your deity within the area deal 1
damage of one of your deity’s alignment types (your choice);
if your deity is true neutral, you don’t gain this benefit.
Critical Success The consecration succeeds, and it either lasts
for 10 years instead of 1 or covers an area with twice the
radius. Occasionally, with your deity’s favor, this might
produce an even more amazing effect, such as a permanently
consecrated area or the effect covering an entire cathedral.
Success The consecration succeeds.
Failure The consecration fails.
Critical Failure The consecration fails spectacularly and
angers your deity, who sends a sign of displeasure. For at
least 1 year, further attempts to consecrate the site fail.
Heightened (7th) The consecrated area also gains the effects
of the dimensional lock spell, but the effect doesn’t attempt
to counteract teleportation by worshippers of your deity. The
cost increases to 200 gp × the spell level.
CONTROL WEATHER
RITUAL 8
UNCOMMON
EVOCATION
Cast 1 day; Secondary Casters 1
Primary Check Nature (master); Secondary Checks Survival
Area 2-mile-radius circle centered on you
Duration 4d12 hours
You alter the weather, making it calm and normal for the season
or choosing up to two effects based on the season:
•	 Spring drizzle, heat, hurricane, sleet, thunderstorm,
tornado
•	 Summer drizzle, downpour, extreme heat, hail, heat
•	 Autumn cold weather, fog, mild heat, sleet
•	 Winter blizzard, mild cold, extreme cold, thaw
You can’t specifically control the manifestations, such as the
exact path of a tornado or the targets of lightning strikes.
Critical Success You change the weather as desired and can
affect a larger area (up to a 5-mile-radius circle), or a longer
duration (any number of additional d12 hours, up to 16d12).
Success You change the weather as desired.
Failure You fail to change the weather as desired.
Critical Failure The weather changes in an unanticipated way,
determined by the GM but generally as contradictory to
your true desires as possible (for instance, a terrible storm
emerges when you would prefer good weather).
Heightened (9th) You can create unseasonable weather and
contradictory weather effects, such as extreme cold and
a hurricane. You can make the weather calm and normal
weather for a different season or choose weather effects from
any season’s list.
CREATE UNDEAD
RITUAL 2
UNCOMMON
EVIL
NECROMANCY
Cast 1 day; Cost black onyx, see Table 7–1; Secondary Casters 1
Primary Check Arcana (expert), Occultism (expert), or Religion
(expert); Secondary Checks Religion
Range 10 feet; Target 1 dead creature
You transform the target into an undead creature with
a level up to that allowed in Table 7–1. There are many
versions of this ritual, each specific to a particular type
of undead (one ritual for all zombies, one for skeletons,
one for ghouls, and so on), and the rituals that create rare
undead are also rare. Some forms of undead, such as liches,
form using their own unique methods and can’t be created
with a version of create undead.
Critical Success The target becomes an undead creature of the
appropriate type. If it’s at least 4 levels lower than you, you
can make it a minion. This gives it the minion trait, meaning
it can use 2 actions when you command it, and commanding
it is a single action that has the auditory and concentrate
traits. You can have a maximum of four minions under your
control. If it’s intelligent and doesn’t become a minion, the
undead is helpful to you for awakening it, though it’s still
a horrid and evil creature. If it’s unintelligent and doesn’t
become a minion, you can give it one simple command. It
pursues that goal single‑mindedly, ignoring any of your
subsequent commands.
Success As critical success, except an intelligent undead that
doesn’t become your minion is only friendly to you, and
an unintelligent undead that doesn’t become your minion
leaves you alone unless you attack it. It marauds the local
area rather than following your command.
Failure You fail to create the undead.
Critical Failure You create the undead, but its soul, tortured by
your foul necromancy, is full of nothing but hatred for you.
It attempts to destroy you.
FREEDOM
RITUAL 8
UNCOMMON
ABJURATION
Cast 1 day; Cost valuable oils and objects associated with the
target worth a total value of 100 gp × the spell level × the
target’s level; Secondary Casters 2
Primary Check Arcana (legendary) or Occultism (legendary);
Secondary Checks Society
Range see text; Target 1 creature
You perform a ritual to free a creature imprisoned, petrified,
or otherwise put into stasis by any magical effects from all
such effects, even effects like imprisonment that don’t have a
duration, as long as freedom’s spell level is equal to or higher
than the effect’s spell level. To perform the ritual, you must
be within 10 feet of the target, or within 10 feet of the place
where the target was imprisoned (in the case of effects that
trap the creature in an unreachable prison, like the oubliette
form of imprisonment). You must know the name of the
creature and details of its background; if the creature is not
a close associate, a failure or critical failure on a secondary
Society check reduces even a critical success on the primary
check to a failure.
Critical Success You free the target from all magical effects
imprisoning it, petrifying it, or putting it into stasis. It gains
411
7
SPELLS
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Skills
Feats
Equipment
Spells
The Age of
Lost OMENS
Playing the
Game
Game
mastering
Crafting
& Treasure
Appendix
