One example of such a reaction is Attack of Opportunity,
which fighters gain at 1st level.
ATTACK OF OPPORTUNITY [reaction]
Trigger A creature within your reach uses a manipulate action
or a move action, makes a ranged attack, or leaves a square
during a move action it’s using.
You lash out at a foe that leaves an opening. Make a melee Strike
against the triggering creature. If your attack is a critical hit and
the trigger was a manipulate action, you disrupt that action. This
Strike doesn’t count toward your multiple attack penalty, and
your multiple attack penalty doesn’t apply to this Strike.
This reaction lets you make a melee Strike if a creature
within reach uses a manipulate or move action, makes a
ranged attack, or leaves a square during a move action. The
Triggering Moves diagram on page 474 illustrates examples
of movements that might trigger an Attack of Opportunity
from a creature without reach and one with reach.
You’ll notice this reaction allows you to use a modified
basic action, a Strike. This follows the rules on
subordinate actions found on page 462.
Because your Attack of Opportunity
takes place outside of your turn,
the attack roll doesn’t incur a
multiple attack penalty.
Movement in
Encounters
Your movement during encounter
mode depends on the actions and other
abilities you use. Whether you Stride,
Step, Swim, or Climb, the maximum
distance you can move is based on your
Speed. Certain feats or magic items can grant
you other movement types, allowing you to
swiftly burrow, climb, fly, or swim (page 463).
When the rules refer to a “movement cost” or
“spending movement,” they are describing how
many feet of your Speed you must use to
move from one point to another. Normally,
movement costs 5 feet per square when
you’re moving on a grid, or it costs the
number of feet you move if you’re not
using a grid. However, sometimes it’s harder to move a
certain distance due to difficult terrain (page 475) or other
factors. In such a case, you might have to spend a different
amount of movement to move from one place to another.
For example, a form of movement might require 10 feet
of movement to move 1 square, and moving through some
types of terrain costs an extra 5 feet of movement per square.
Grid Movement
If an encounter involves combat, it’s often a good idea to
track the movement and relative position of the participants
using a Pathfinder Flip-Mat, Flip-Tiles, or some other form
of grid to display the terrain, and miniatures to represent
the combatants. When a character moves on a grid, every
1-inch square of the play area is 5 feet across in the game
world. Hence, a creature moving in a straight line spends 5
feet of its movement for every map square traveled.
Because moving diagonally covers more ground, you
count that movement differently. The first square of
diagonal movement you make in a turn counts as 5 feet,
but the second counts as 10 feet, and your count thereafter
alternates between the two. For example, as you move
across 4 squares diagonally, you would count 5 feet, then
10, then 5, and then 10, for a total of 30 feet. You track your
total diagonal movement across all your movement during
your turn, but reset your count at the end of your turn.
Size, Space, and Reach
Creatures and objects of different sizes occupy
different amounts of space. The sizes and the
spaces they each take up on a grid are listed
in Table 9–1: Size and Reach (page 474).
473
9
PLAYING THE GAME
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Skills
Feats
Equipment
Spells
The Age of
Lost OMENS
Playing the
Game
Game
mastering
Crafting
& Treasure
Appendix
