is automatically a critical success. If the ritual succeeds, you
must offer the servitor payment depending on factors such
as the duration and danger of the task. Payment always costs
at least as much as a consumable item of the creature’s level,
even for a short and simple task, and it often costs as much
as a permanent magic item of the creature’s level to persuade
a creature to fight alongside you. If you use the ritual without
good reason, the result is automatically a critical failure.
Critical Success Your deity sends a servitor, and the servitor’s
payment costs only half as much as normal. If you ask for a
particular servitor by name, your deity is likely to send that
servitor unless the servitor is busy.
Success Your deity sends a servitor.
Failure Your deity does not send a servitor.
Critical Failure Your deity is offended and sends a sign of
displeasure or possibly even a servitor to scold or attack you,
depending on your deity’s nature. You must conduct an atone
ritual to regain your former standing with your deity.
PLANAR BINDING
RITUAL 6
UNCOMMON
ABJURATION
CONJURATION
Cast 1 day; Cost warding diagram ingredients worth a total
value of 2 gp × the spell level × the target’s level; Secondary
Casters 4
Primary Check Arcana (master) or Occultism (master); Secondary
Checks Crafting; Diplomacy or Intimidation; Arcana or
Occultism (whichever isn’t used for the primary check)
Range interplanar; Targets 1 extraplanar creature
Duration varies
You call forth an extraplanar creature of a level no greater than
double that of the planar binding ritual’s level and attempt to
bargain with it. The secondary caster attempting the Crafting
check creates a warding diagram to prevent the extraplanar
creature from attacking or leaving during the bargain; if that
caster fails or critically fails, then instead of the usual effects
of a failure or critical failure of the secondary skill check, the
extraplanar creature can attack or leave instead of negotiate.
You can also leave out this step, removing the need for a
Crafting check, with the same result (if you’re summoning a
good outsider you trust, for example). The creature can also
attack or leave if you use any hostile action against it or if the
warding diagram breaks. Once the diagram is complete, you
and the secondary casters each take your places at specific
points at the diagram’s edge where power concentrates.
You conjure the extraplanar creature within your wards and
negotiate a deal with it, generally to perform a task for you in
exchange for payment. A creature that doesn’t wish to negotiate
at all can attempt a Will save to stay on its home plane. Most
good and neutral extraplanar creatures feel that they have
something better to do than cater to the whims of mortals
and require a significant gift, especially if your task poses
significant risks. Evil extraplanar creatures are more likely to
accept a bargain for a lower cost as long as it allows them to
wreak havoc on the Material Plane or inflict evil upon the world
[[insert art: planar binding]]
Core Rulebook
414
