about so many wondrous places and things in your books,
and always dreamed about one day seeing the real things.
Eventually, that curiosity led you to leave your studies and
become an adventurer.
Choose two ability boosts. One must be to Intelligence or
Wisdom, and one is a free ability boost.
You’re trained in your choice of the Arcana, Nature,
Occultism, or Religion skill, and gain the Assurance skill
feat in your chosen skill. You’re also trained in the Academia
Lore skill.
SCOUT
BACKGROUND
You called the wilderness home as you found trails and guided
travelers. Your wanderlust could have called you to the
adventuring life, or perhaps you served as a scout for soldiers
and found you liked battle.
Choose two ability boosts. One must be to Dexterity or
Wisdom, and one is a free ability boost.
You’re trained in the Survival skill and a Lore skill related
to one terrain you scouted in (such as Forest Lore or Cavern
Lore). You gain the Forager skill feat.
STREET URCHIN
BACKGROUND
You eked out a living by picking pockets on the streets of
a major city, never knowing where you’d find your next
meal. While some folk adventure for the glory, you do so
to survive.
Choose two ability boosts. One must be to Dexterity or
Constitution, and one is a free ability boost.
You’re trained in Thievery and a Lore skill for the city you
lived in as a street urchin (such as Absalom Lore or Magnimar
Lore). You gain the Pickpocket skill feat.
TINKER
BACKGROUND
Creating all sorts of minor inventions scratches your itch for
problem-solving. Your engineering skills take a particularly
creative bent, and no one know what you’ll come up with next.
It might be a genius device with tremendous potential... or it
might explode.
Choose two ability boosts. One must be to Dexterity or
Intelligence, and one is a free ability boost.
You’re trained in the Crafting skill and the Engineering Lore
skill. You gain the Specialty Crafting skill feat.
WARRIOR
BACKGROUND
In your younger days, you waded into battle as a mercenary,
a warrior defending a nomadic people, or a member of a
militia or army. You might have wanted to break out from
the regimented structure of these forces, or you could have
always been as independent a warrior as you are now.
Choose two ability boosts. One must be to Strength or
Constitution, and one is a free ability boost.
You’re trained in the Intimidation skill and the Warfare Lore
skill. You gain the Intimidating Glare skill feat.
Core Rulebook
64
