Critical Success The creature is unaffected.
Success The creature perceives what you chose until it
disbelieves, but it knows what the hallucination is.
Failure The creature perceives what you chose until it disbelieves.
Critical Failure The creature perceives what you chose until
it disbelieves, and it trusts its false senses, taking a –4
circumstance penalty to saves to disbelieve.
Heightened (6th) Choose to either target up to 10 creatures
or change the spell’s duration to until the next time you make
your daily preparations.
Heightened (8th) Choose to either target any number of
creatures or change the spell’s duration to unlimited.
HALLUCINATORY TERRAIN
SPELL 4
UNCOMMON
ILLUSION
Traditions arcane, occult, primal
Cast 10 minutes (material, somatic, verbal)
Range 500 feet; Area 50-foot burst
Duration until the next time you make your daily preparations
You create an illusion that causes natural terrain to look,
sound, feel, and smell like a different kind of terrain. This
doesn’t disguise any structures or creatures in the area.
Any creature that touches the illusion or uses the Seek
action to examine it can attempt to disbelieve your illusion.
Heightened (5th) Your image can also disguise structures or
create illusory structures (but still doesn’t disguise creatures).
HARM
SPELL 1
NECROMANCY
NEGATIVE
Traditions divine
Cast [one-action] to [three-actions]
Range varies; Targets 1 living creature or 1 willing
undead creature
You channel negative energy to harm the living or heal
the undead. If the target is a living creature, you deal 1d8
negative damage to it, and it gets a basic Fortitude save.
If the target is a willing undead creature, you restore that
amount of Hit Points. The number of actions you spend when
Casting this Spell determines its targets, range, area, and
other parameters.
[one-action] (somatic) The spell has a range of touch.
[two-actions] (verbal, somatic) The spell has a range of 30 feet. If you’re
healing an undead creature, increase the Hit Points restored
by 8.
[three-actions] (material, verbal, somatic) You disperse positive energy
in a 30-foot emanation. This targets all living and undead
creatures in the area.
Heightened (+1) The amount of healing or damage increases by
1d8, and the extra healing for the 2-action version increases
by 8.
HASTE
SPELL 3
TRANSMUTATION
Traditions arcane, occult, primal
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal
Range 30 feet; Targets 1 creature
Duration 1 minute
Magic empowers the target to act faster. It gains the quickened
condition and can use the extra action each round only for
Strike and Stride actions.
Heightened (7th) You can target up to 6 creatures.
HEAL
SPELL 1
HEALING
NECROMANCY
POSITIVE
Traditions divine, primal
Cast [one-action] to [three-actions]
Range varies; Targets 1 willing living creature or 1 undead
creature
You channel positive energy to heal the living or damage
the undead. If the target is a willing living creature, you
restore 1d8 Hit Points. If the target is undead, you deal
that amount of positive damage to it, and it gets a basic
Fortitude save. The number of actions you spend when
Casting this Spell determines its targets, range, area, and
other parameters.
[one-action] (somatic) The spell has a range of touch.
[two-actions] (verbal, somatic) The spell has a range of 30 feet. If you’re
healing a living creature, increase the Hit Points restored
by 8.
[three-actions] (material, somatic, verbal) You disperse positive energy
in a 30-foot emanation. This targets all living and undead
creatures in the burst.
Heightened (+1) The amount of healing or damage increases
by 1d8, and the extra healing for the 2-action version
increases by 8.
HEROISM
SPELL 3
ENCHANTMENT
MENTAL
Traditions divine, occult
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal
Range touch; Targets 1 humanoid creature
Duration 10 minutes
You tap into the target’s inner heroism, granting it a +1 status
bonus to attack rolls, Perception checks, saving throws, and
skill checks.
Heightened (6th) The status bonus increases to +2.
Heightened (9th) The status bonus increases to +3.
HIDEOUS LAUGHTER
SPELL 2
EMOTION
ENCHANTMENT
MENTAL
Traditions arcane, occult
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal
Range 30 feet; Targets 1 living creature
Saving Throw Will; Duration sustained
The target is overtaken with uncontrollable laughter. It must
attempt a Will save.
Critical Success The target is unaffected.
Success The target is plagued with uncontrollable laugher. It
can’t use reactions.
Failure The target is slowed 1 and can’t use reactions.
Critical Failure The target falls prone and can’t use actions or
reactions for 1 round. It then suffers the failure effects.
343
7
SPELLS
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Skills
Feats
Equipment
Spells
The Age of
Lost OMENS
Playing the
Game
Game
mastering
Crafting
& Treasure
Appendix
