Circumstance bonuses typically involve the situation
you find yourself in when attempting a check. For
instance, using Raise a Shield with a buckler grants you a
+1 circumstance bonus to AC. Being behind cover grants
you a +2 circumstance bonus to AC. If you are both
behind cover and Raising a Shield, you gain only the +2
circumstance bonus for cover, since they’re the same type
and the bonus from cover is higher.
Item bonuses are granted by some item that you
are wearing or using, either mundane or magical. For
example, armor gives you an item bonus to AC, while
expanded alchemist’s tools grant you an item bonus to
Crafting checks when making alchemical items.
Status bonuses typically come from spells, other
magical effects, or something applying a helpful, often
temporary, condition to you. For instance, the 3rd-level
heroism spell grants a +1 status bonus to attack rolls,
Perception checks, saving throws, and skill checks. If
you were under the effect of heroism and someone cast
the bless spell, which also grants a +1 status bonus on
attacks, your attack rolls would gain only a +1 status
bonus, since both spells grant a +1 status bonus to those
rolls, and you only take the highest status bonus.
Penalties work very much like bonuses. You can have
circumstance penalties, status penalties, and sometimes
even item penalties. Like bonuses of the same type, you
take only the worst all of various penalties of a given
type. However, you can apply both a bonus and a penalty
of the same type on a single roll. For example, if you had
a +1 status bonus from a heroism spell but a –2 status
penalty from the sickened condition, you’d apply them
both to your roll—so heroism still helps even though
you’re feeling unwell.
Unlike bonuses, penalties can also be untyped, in which
case they won’t be classified as “circumstance,” “item,” or
“status.” Unlike other penalties, you always add all your
untyped penalties together rather than simply taking the
worst one. For instance, when you use attack actions,
you incur a multiple attack penalty on each attack you
make on your turn after the first attack, and when you
attack a target that’s beyond your weapon’s normal
range increment, you incur a range penalty on the attack.
Because these are both untyped penalties, if you make
multiple attacks at a faraway target, you’d apply both the
multiple attack penalty and the range penalty to your roll.
Once you’ve identified all your various modifiers,
bonuses, and penalties, you move on to the next step.
Step 2: Calculate the Result
This step is simple. Add up all the various modifiers,
bonuses, and penalties you identified in Step 1—this is
your total modifier. Next add that to the number that came
up on your d20 roll. This total is your check result.
Step 3: Compare the Result to the DC
This step can be simple, or it can create suspense. Sometimes
you’ll know the Difficulty Class (DC) of your check. In these
cases, if your result is equal to or greater than the DC, you
succeed! If your roll anything less than the DC, you fail.
Other times, you might not know the DC right away.
Swimming across a river would require an Athletics check,
but it doesn’t have a specified DC—so how will you know
if you succeed or fail? You call out your result to the GM
and they will let you know if it is a success, failure, or
otherwise. While you might learn the exact DC through
trial and error, DCs sometimes change, so asking the GM
whether a check is successful is the best way to determine
whether or not you have met or exceeded the DC.
Calculating DCs
Whenever you attempt a check, you compare your result
against a DC. When someone or something else attempts
a check against you, rather than both forces rolling
against one another, the GM (or player, if the opponent is
another PC) compares their result to a fixed DC based on
your relevant statistic. Your DC for a given statistic is 10
+ the total modifier for that statistic.
Step 4: Determine the Degree of Success
and Effect
Many times, it’s important to determine not only if you
succeed or fail, but also how spectacularly you succeed or
fail. Exceptional results—either good or bad—can cause
you to critically succeed at or critically fail a check.
You critically succeed at a check when a check’s result
meets or exceeds the DC by 10 or more. If the check is an
attack roll, this is sometimes called a critical hit. You can
also critically fail a check. The rules for critical failure—
sometimes called a fumble—are the same as those for a
critical success, but in the other direction: if you fail a
check by 10 or more, that’s a critical failure.
If you rolled a 20 on the die (a “natural 20”), your result
is one degree of success better than it would be by numbers
alone. If you roll a 1 on the d20 (a “natural 1”), your
result is one degree worse. This means that a natural 20
Number
on the die +
Ability
modifier
Proficiency bonus
Circumstance bonus
Status bonus
Item bonus
Circumstance penalty
Status penalty
Item penalty
All untyped penalties = Result
+
+
CALCULATING CHECK RESULTS
If you have more than one bonus or penalty of a
particular type, apply only the highest
445
9
PLAYING THE GAME
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Skills
Feats
Equipment
Spells
The Age of
Lost OMENS
Playing the
Game
Game
mastering
Crafting
& Treasure
Appendix
