SHADOW SIPHON
SPELL 5
ILLUSION
SHADOW
Traditions arcane, occult
Cast [reaction] verbal; Trigger A spell or magical effect deals damage.
Range 60 feet; Targets the triggering spell
Exchanging material energy with that of the Shadow Plane,
you transform the triggering spell into a partially illusory
version of itself. Attempt to counteract the target spell. If the
attempt is successful, any creatures that would be damaged
by the spell instead take only half as much damage. but
the spell otherwise works as normal. Treat shadow siphon’s
counteract level as 2 higher for this attempt.
SHADOW WALK
SPELL 5
UNCOMMON
CONJURATION
SHADOW
TELEPORTATION
Traditions arcane, occult
Cast 1 minute (material, somatic, verbal)
Range touch; Targets you and up to 9 willing creatures touched
Duration 8 hours
You access the Shadow Plane, using its warped nature to
spread your travels. The targets enter the edge of the Shadow
Plane where it borders the Material Plane. Targets can’t see
the Material Plane while on the Shadow Plane (although
elements of that plane can sometimes be a hazy reflection
of the Material Plane). While on the Shadow Plane, the
targets are exposed to potential encounters with that plane’s
denizens. The shadows on the border between the planes
bend space, speeding up your movement with respect to the
Material Plane. Every 3 minutes the targets travel along this
border, they move as far as they would through the Material
Plane in 1 hour. At any point, a target can Dismiss the spell’s
effects, although this affects only that target. The shadow
bending is inexact, so when the spell ends, the targets
appear roughly 1 mile from their intended location on the
Material Plane (though those who are traveling together and
Dismiss the spell at the same point on the Plane of Shadow
appear together).
SHAPE STONE
SPELL 4
EARTH
TRANSMUTATION
Traditions arcane, primal
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal
Range touch; Targets cube of stone 10 feet across or smaller
You shape the stone into a rough shape of your choice. The
shaping process is too crude to produce intricate parts, fine
details, moving pieces, or the like. Any creatures standing
atop the stone when you reshape it must each attempt a
Reflex save or Acrobatics check.
Success The creature is unaffected.
Failure The creature falls prone atop the stone.
Critical Failure The creature falls off the stone (if applicable)
and lands prone.
SHAPE WOOD
SPELL 2
PLANT
TRANSMUTATION
Traditions primal
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal
Range touch; Targets an unworked piece of wood up to 20
cubic feet in volume
You shape the wood into a rough shape of your choice. The
shaping power is too crude to produce with intricate parts,
fine details, moving pieces, or the like. You cannot use
this spell to enhance the value of the wooden object you
are shaping.
SHAPECHANGE
SPELL 9
POLYMORPH
TRANSMUTATION
Traditions arcane, primal
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal
Duration 1 minute
Harnessing your mastery of transformative magic, you take
on a mutable form. You transform yourself into any form you
could choose with a polymorph spell in your spell repertoire
or that you could prepare of 8th level or lower (including
any 8th-level or lower heightened versions of spells you
know). You choose the type of creature as you Cast the
Spell rather than when you prepare it. You can change your
form to any other form you could choose with this spell by
using a single action, which has the concentrate trait. You
can Dismiss this spell.
SHATTER
SPELL 2
EVOCATION
SONIC
Traditions occult, primal
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal
Range 30 feet; Targets 1 unattended object
A high-frequency sonic attack shatters a nearby object. You
deal 2d10 sonic damage to the object, ignoring the object’s
Hardness if it is 4 or lower.
Heightened (+1) The damage increases by 1d10, and the
Hardness the spell ignores increases by 2.
SHIELD
CANTRIP 1
ABJURATION
CANTRIP
FORCE
Traditions arcane, divine, occult
Cast [one-action] verbal
Duration until the start of your next turn
You raise a magical shield of force. This counts as using the
Raise a Shield action, giving you a +1 circumstance bonus to
AC until the start of your next turn, but it doesn’t require a
hand to use.
While the spell is in effect, you can use the Shield Block
reaction with your magic shield (see the sidebar). The shield
has Hardness 5. After you use Shield Block, the spell ends
and you can’t cast it again for 10 minutes. Unlike a normal
Shield Block, you can use the spell’s reaction against the magic
missile spell.
Heightening the spell increases the shield’s Hardness.
Heightened (3rd) The shield has Hardness 10.
Heightened (5th) The shield has Hardness 15.
Heightened (7th) The shield has Hardness 20.
Heightened (9th) The shield has Hardness 25.
Core Rulebook
368
