Great Fortitude
9th
Your physique is incredibly hardy. Your proficiency rank
for Fortitude saves increases to expert.
Resolve
9th
You’ve steeled your mind with resolve. Your proficiency
rank for Will saves increases to master. When you roll a
success at a Will save, you get a critical success instead.
Bard Weapon Expertise
11th
You have become thoroughly adept with bardic weapons.
You gain expert proficiency in simple weapons, plus the
longsword, rapier, sap, shortbow, shortsword, and whip.
When you critically succeed at an attack roll using one
of these weapons while one of your compositions is
active, you apply the critical specialization effect for
that weapon.
Vigilant Senses
11th
Through your adventures, you’ve developed keen
awareness and attention to detail. Your proficiency rank
for Perception increases to master.
Light Armor Expertise 
13th
You’ve learned how to dodge while wearing light or
no armor. Your proficiency ranks for light armor and
unarmored defense increase to expert.
Weapon Specialization
13th
You’ve learned how to inflict greater injuries with the
weapons you know best. You deal 2 additional damage
with weapons and unarmed attacks in which you are an
expert. This damage increases to 3 damage if you’re a
master, and 4 damage if you’re legendary.
Master Spellcaster
15th
You’ve mastered the occult. Your proficiency ranks for
occult spell attack rolls and spell DCs increase to master.
Greater Resolve
17th
Your unbelievable training grants you mental resiliency.
Your proficiency rank for Will saves increases to
legendary. When you roll a success at a Will save, you get
a critical success. When you roll a critical failure at a Will
save, you get a failure instead. When you fail a Will save
against a damaging effect, you take half damage.
Magnum Opus
19th
You have tuned your spellcasting to the highest caliber.
Add two common 10th-level occult spells to your
repertoire. You gain a single 10th-level spell slot you can
use to cast one of those two spells using bard spellcasting.
You don’t gain more 10th-level spells as you level up,
unlike other spell slots, and you can’t use 10th-level slots
with abilities that give you more spell slots or that let you
cast spells without expending spell slots.
Legendary Spellcaster 
19th
Your command of occult magic is the stuff of legends.
Your proficiency ranks for occult spell attack rolls and
spell DCs increase to legendary.
Bard Feats
At every level that you gain a bard feat, you can select one
of the following feats. You must satisfy any prerequisites
before selecting the feat.
1ST LEVEL
BARDIC LORE
FEAT 1
BARD
Prerequisites enigma muse
Your studies make you informed on every subject. You
are trained in Bardic Lore, a special Lore skill that can be
used only to Recall Knowledge, but on any topic. If you
have legendary proficiency in Occultism, you gain expert
proficiency in Bardic Lore, but you can’t increase your
proficiency rank in Bardic Lore by any other means.
LINGERING COMPOSITION
FEAT 1
BARD
Prerequisites maestro muse, focus pool
By adding a flourish, you make your compositions last longer.
You learn the lingering composition focus spell (page 387).
Increase the number of Focus Points in your focus pool by 1.
REACH SPELL [one-action]
FEAT 1
BARD
CONCENTRATE
METAMAGIC
You can extend your spells’ range. If the next action you use is
to Cast a Spell that has a range, increase that spell’s range by
KEY TERMS
You’ll see the following key terms in many bard class features.
Composition: To cast a composition cantrip or focus
spell, you use a type of Performance (page 250). If the spell
includes a verbal component, you must use an auditory
performance, and if it includes a somatic component, you
must use a visual one. The spell gains all the traits of the
performance you used. You can cast only one composition
spell each turn, and you can have only one active at a time.
If you cast a new composition spell, any ongoing effects
from your previous composition spell end immediately.
Metamagic: Actions with the metamagic trait tweak
the properties of your spells. These actions usually come
from metamagic feats. You must use a metamagic action
directly before Casting the Spell you want to alter. If you
use any action (including free actions and reactions) other
than Cast a Spell directly after, you waste the benefits of
the metamagic action. Any additional effects added by a
metamagic action are part of the spell’s effect, not of the
metamagic action itself.
99
3
CLASSES
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Skills
Feats
Equipment
Spells
The Age of
Lost OMENS
Playing the
Game
Game
mastering
Crafting
& Treasure
Appendix
