Dwarves ascended to the surface from the underground reaches of the
Darklands in their legendary Quest for Sky, elves returned from the neighboring
planet of Castrovel via a network of portals to reclaim their lands and traditions,
and gnomes from the mysterious First World sought shelter from a now-forgotten
terror. Survivors from other ancestries who had sheltered through the terror and
destruction of Earthfall emerged during the Age of Darkness
to reclaim their ancestral lands, from scrappy goblin tribes
with a knack for surviving despite all odds against them to
industrious halflings who emerged from the ruins to found
societies of their own.
But humanity made the most astounding recovery. Less than
2,000 years after the near-extinction from Earthfall, the Age of
Destiny saw the rise of many new human empires throughout
the world. Humanity built wondrous structures, and its schools
relearned magic that had been thought lost. Among these human
nations walked a man named Aroden—an immortal survivor of
the devastation of Earthfall. Aroden had long since cultivated
a following of loyal subjects who regarded him with awe, for
immortality was but one of the wonders he’d achieved. Greatest
among these was his discovery of a shard of potent magic known
today as the Starstone, a fragment from the stars that fell during
Earthfall, which had lodged at the bottom of the Inner Sea. Contact
with this alien artifact assailed Aroden with phantasmagoric visions,
subjected him to a series of deadly martial trials, and posed
exhausting moral quandaries that challenged his limits more than
any of the arduous experiences he had yet endured. He emerged from
this test a living god, and his first divine act was to raise the Starstone
and the mass of land on which it had lain from the bottom of the sea to
form the Isle of Kortos—also known as Starstone Isle—where he then
established the city of Absalom.
In the centuries to follow, Absalom grew into one of the largest
cities in the world, and Aroden’s legacy grew alongside it. As the
millennia passed, his attentions increasingly turned away from the
concerns of the Inner Sea’s inhabitants to otherworldly matters beyond
mortal ken, but prophecy spoke of a time when he would return to
Golarion and lead humanity triumphantly into an Age of Glory. As the
time of Aroden’s return drew near, entire nations undertook monumental
preparations to welcome him back to Golarion.
But instead, Aroden died, and with him the reliability of prophecy as well.
Golarion was wracked by storms, war, and supernatural devastation as
the god’s death marked the beginning of a new age—a time of uncertainty,
but also a time of opportunity. This is the Age of Lost Omens, an age in
need of heroes like never before.
Chapter 8:
The Age of Lost Omens
Ten thousand years ago, the world of Golarion came close to ending. Earthfall, as this
extinction-level event came to be known, saw the world pummeled by a shower of
falling stars that sank continents, hollowed out new seas, and destroyed civilizations. It
took centuries for the world to recover, and centuries more for society to rebuild, but
recover it did.
8
417
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Skills
Feats
Equipment
Spells
The Age of
Lost OMENS
Playing the
Game
Game
mastering
Crafting
& Treasure
Appendix
