Long Durations
If a spell’s duration says it lasts until your next daily
preparations, on the next day you can refrain from
preparing a new spell in that spell’s slot. (If you are
a spontaneous caster, you can instead expend a spell
slot during your preparations.) Doing so extends the
spell’s duration until your next daily preparations. This
effectively Sustains the Spell over a long period of time.
If you prepare a new spell in the slot (or don’t expend
a spell slot), the spell ends. You can’t do this if the spell
didn’t come from one of your spell slots. If you are dead
or otherwise incapacitated at the 24-hour mark after the
time you Cast the Spell or the last time you extended
its duration, the spell ends. Spells with an unlimited
duration last until counteracted or Dismissed. You
don’t need to keep a spell slot open for these spells.
Dismissing
Some spells can be dismissed, ending the duration early.
This requires the caster or target to use the Dismiss action.
DISMISS [one-action]
CONCENTRATE
You end one spell effect or magic item effect. This must be an
effect you are allowed to dismiss, as defined by the spell or
item. Dismissal might end the effect entirely or might end it just
for a certain target or targets, depending on the spell or item.
Saving Throws
Spells that require a target to attempt a save to resist some
or all of the spell’s effects have a Saving Throw entry. This
entry presents the type of save for quick reference, and
specific details appear in the spell description. Whenever
a spell allows a saving throw, it uses the caster’s spell DC.
Basic Saving Throws
If a spell’s Saving Throw entry specifies a “basic” saving
throw, the spell’s potential effects all relate to the damage
listed in the spell’s description. The target takes no damage
on a critical success, half damage on a success, full damage on
a failure, or double damage on a critical failure. The rules
for basic saving throws are found on page 449.
Spell Attacks
Some spells require you to succeed at a spell attack roll
to affect the target. This is usually because they require
you to precisely aim a ray or otherwise make an accurate
attack. A spell attack roll is compared to the target’s AC.
Spell attack rolls benefit from any bonuses or penalties to
attack rolls, including your multiple attack penalty, but not
any special benefits or penalties that apply only to weapon
or unarmed attacks. Spell attacks don’t deal any damage
beyond what’s listed in the spell description.
In rare cases, a spell might have you make some other
type of attack, such as a weapon Strike. Such attacks use
the normal rules and attack bonus for that type of attack.
Identifying Spells
Sometimes you need to identify a spell, especially if its
effects are not obvious right away. If you notice a spell
being cast, and you have prepared that spell or have it
in your repertoire, you automatically know what the
spell is, including the level to which it is heightened.
If you want to identify a spell but don’t have it
prepared or in your repertoire, you must spend an
action on your turn to attempt to identify it using
Recall Knowledge. You typically notice a spell being
cast by seeing its visual manifestations or hearing its
verbal casting components. Identifying long-lasting
spells that are already in place requires using Identify
Magic instead of Recall Knowledge because you don’t
have the advantage of watching the spell being cast.
Counteracting
Some spells, such as dispel magic, can be used to eliminate
the effects of other spells. At least one creature, object, or
manifestation of the spell you are trying to counteract must
be within range of the spell that you are using. You attempt
a counteract check (page 458) using your spellcasting ability
modifier and your proficiency bonus for spell attack rolls.
Hostile Actions
Sometimes spell effects prevent a target from using
hostile actions, or the spell ends if a creature uses any
hostile actions. A hostile action is one that can harm or
damage another creature, whether directly or indirectly,
but not one that a creature is unaware could cause harm.
For instance, lobbing a fireball into a crowd would be
a hostile action, but opening a door and accidentally
freeing a horrible monster would not be. The GM is the
final arbitrator of what constitutes a hostile action.
Setting Triggers
If a spell is meant to respond only to certain events or
under certain conditions—such as magic mouth—it might
require you to set a trigger. This is a simple sensory cue
that causes the spell to activate. The spell activates as a
reaction when the spell’s sensor observes something that
fits its trigger. Depending on the spell, the trigger might
be the presence of a type of creature, such as “red-haired
dwarven women,” or it could be an observed action, such
as “whenever someone enters the spell’s area.”
Disguises and illusions fool the spell as long as they
appear to match its parameters. For a spell to detect
something visually, the spell’s origin point must have line
of sight. Darkness doesn’t prevent this, but invisibility
305
7
SPELLS
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Skills
Feats
Equipment
Spells
The Age of
Lost OMENS
Playing the
Game
Game
mastering
Crafting
& Treasure
Appendix
