HEADBAND OF INSPIRED WISDOM
ITEM 17
ABJURATION
 APEX
 INVESTED
 MAGICAL
Price 15,000 gp
Usage worn circlet; Bulk —
This simple cloth headband remains pristine and clean at all
times, no matter the circumstances. When you invest the
headband, you either increase your Wisdom score by 2 or
increase it to 18, whichever would give you a higher score.
Activate [one-action] envision; Frequency once per day; Effect When
you are considering a course of action, you get a gut feeling
about whether it’s a good idea. You gain the effects of an
augury spell, except that you receive the
result from your own instincts rather
than an external source.
Activate [reaction]
envision
(fortune);
Frequency once per hour; Trigger You fail
a saving throw against an effect that makes
you confused, fascinated, or stupefied; Effect The
headband of inspired wisdom clears your mind. You can
reroll the saving throw and use the better result.
Companion Items
You might want to acquire items that benefit an animal
or beast that assists you. These items have the companion
trait, meaning they function only for animal companions,
familiars, and similar creatures. If it’s unclear whether a
creature can benefit from such an item, the GM decides.
Investing Companion Items
Any worn companion item needs to be invested. However,
your companion needs to invest it rather than you
doing so. This requires you to use the Invest an Item
activity alongside your companion. A companion has an
investiture limit of two items (instead of the 10-item limit
a player character has).
BARDING OF THE ZEPHYR
ITEM 10
COMPANION
 INVESTED
 PRIMAL
 TRANSMUTATION
Price 900 gp
Usage worn barding; Bulk L
This light barding is covered in stylized wind motifs. When
you suit up your animal companion, the barding adjusts to fit
your animal companion regardless of its shape.
When your companion falls, wind picks it up from below; it
gains the effects of feather fall.
Activate [two-actions] Interact; Frequency once per day; Effect You
trace a finger along the wind motifs on the barding, granting
your companion wearing the barding a fly Speed of 30 feet
for 10 minutes. Even if the companion doesn’t have the mount
special ability, it can still Fly while being ridden.
COLLAR OF EMPATHY
ITEM 9
COMPANION
 DIVINATION
 INVESTED
 PRIMAL
Price 600 gp
Usage worn collar (companion) and worn bracelet (you); Bulk 1
This ornate collar of intertwined leather strips of contrasting
colors is paired with a bracelet of a similar construction.
When you wear and invest the bracelet and your companion
wears and invests the collar, you gain a stronger connection
to each other. You and your companion can always sense each
others’ emotional states and basic physical wants and needs.
Activate [one-action] envision; Effect You perceive through your
animal companion’s senses instead of your own. You can Sustain
the Activation. You are unaware of your own surroundings
for as long as you are using your animal companion’s senses.
In addition to the obvious use when you are separated from
your companion, this ability might allow you to notice sounds,
scents, and other stimuli that your companion’s
senses register but yours alone don’t.
COLLAR OF INCONSPICUOUSNESS	 ITEM 8
COMPANION
 INVESTED
 PRIMAL  TRANSMUTATION
Price 475 gp
Usage worn collar; Bulk 1
This leather collar’s worn and almost threadbare
look belies its magical nature. When your companion wears and
invests the collar, it gains the ability to change its appearance
from that of a ferocious animal into a more inconspicuous form.
Activate [one-action] envision; Effect You touch your animal
companion to transform it into a nonthreatening Tiny creature
of the same family or a similar creature (for instance, a house
cat instead of a tiger, or a puppy instead of a wolf). This has the
effects of pest form (2nd level, or 4th level if your companion
can fly). The effect lasts until you Dismiss it.
HORSESHOES OF SPEED
ITEM 7+
COMPANION
 INVESTED
 PRIMAL
 TRANSMUTATION
Usage worn horseshoes; Bulk 1
When you affix these simple iron horseshoes to the hooves
of an ordinary horse or a quadrupedal animal companion
and the animal companion invests them, that creature
gains a +5-foot item bonus to its land Speed and a +2 item
bonus to Athletics checks to High Jump and Long Jump. In
addition, when it Leaps, it can move 5 feet farther if jumping
horizontally or 3 feet higher if jumping vertically.
Type horseshoes of speed; Level 7; Price 340 gp
Type greater horseshoes of speed; Level 14; Price 4,250 gp
The bonus to Speed is +10 feet, and the bonus to Athletics
checks is +3.
Other Worn Items
These are a wide variety of items you wear. Armor appears
in its own section on page 555, and apex items that can
increase ability scores are on page 603.
AEON STONE
ITEM 1+
UNCOMMON
 INVESTED
 MAGICAL
 TRANSMUTATION
Usage worn; Bulk —
Over millennia, these mysterious, intricately cut gemstones
have been hoarded by mystics and fanatics hoping to
discover their secrets. Despite their myriad forms and
functions, these stones are purportedly all fragments of
Core Rulebook
604
