HEALER’S GLOVES
ITEM 4+
INVESTED
 MAGICAL
 NECROMANCY
Usage worn gloves; Bulk L
These clean, white gloves never show signs of blood, even
when used to stitch up wounds or treat other ailments. They
give you a +1 item bonus to Medicine checks.
Activate [one-action] Interact; Frequency once
per day; Effect You can soothe a willing,
adjacent creature’s wounds, restoring 2d6+7
Hit Points to that creature. This is a positive
healing effect. You can’t harm undead with
this healing.
Type healer’s gloves; Level 4; Price 80 gp
Type greater healer’s gloves; Level 9;
Price 700 gp
The gloves provide a +2 bonus and restore
4d6+15 Hit Points.
INEXPLICABLE APPARATUS
ITEM 18
INVESTED
 MAGICAL
 TRANSMUTATION
Price 19,000 gp
Usage worn garment; Bulk 2
This strange and intricate harness fits snugly to the torso.
Once you invest the apparatus, numerous artificial limbs with
various tools, clamps, and lenses whirl into action, following
your mental commands effortlessly.
When using this apparatus, you gain a +3 item bonus
to Crafting checks to Craft, Earn Income, and Repair, and
you reduce the minimum time required to Craft an item to
1 day. If you succeed at your Crafting check and spend more
downtime to continue work on the item after the minimum
number of days, each day you spend reduces the remaining
raw material cost by an amount based on your level + 1 and
your proficiency rank in Crafting; on a critical success, each
day reduces the remaining raw material cost by an amount
based on your level + 2 and your proficiency rank. If you are
20th level, on a critical success your progress is 50 gp, 100
gp, 200 gp, or 350 gp for trained, expert, master, or legendary
proficiency, respectively.
Activate [two-actions] command, Interact; Frequency once per day;
Effect You command the apparatus to magically jury-rig an item
you hold or that’s within 5 feet of you. The item is repaired,
as a 3rd-level mending spell. This lasts for 10 minutes, after
which the item returns to its previous state of disrepair unless
you’ve Repaired it before then.
KNAPSACK OF HALFLINGKIND
ITEM 9+
UNCOMMON  CONJURATION  EXTRADIMENSIONAL
 HEALING  INVESTED
 MAGICAL
Usage worn backpack; Bulk L
This sturdy leather satchel contains three compartments
fastened with large clasps. The first compartment is lined in
blue satin and contains an extradimensional space equivalent
to a type II bag of holding.
The second compartment has no lining. You can pull forth
cookware and cooking utensils from it. Once they have been
used to prepare a meal, the items transform into plates and
silverware, and they evaporate once the meal has been eaten,
taking any leftovers with them. The cookware reappears
cleaned in the compartment 1 hour later. The compartment
provides only kitchenware, not any food.
The third compartment is lined
with plush purple velvet and
contains berry tarts wrapped in
parchment paper. A creature can unwrap
and eat one tart with an Interact action
to regain 2d8+4 Hit Points. The knapsack
produces four tarts per day, which appear
at breakfast time. Any tarts not eaten by
the end of the day evaporate.
Type knapsack of halflingkind; Level 9;
Price 675 gp
Type greater knapsack of halflingkind; Level
13; Price 2,850 gp
The berry tarts each restore 4d8+8 Hit Points,
and the bag has two additional compartments,
each of which can be Activated with an Interact action.
The fourth compartment is lined in golden velvet. Once
per day, you can draw a lucky magic sling bullet from this
compartment. If you attack with this sling bullet, you roll twice
and use the better result on your attack roll and your damage
roll. This is a fortune effect. The stone becomes non-magical
if not hurled by the end of your turn. Once activated, this
compartment stitches itself shut until the next day.
The bag’s fifth compartment is lined in black wool. Once per
day, you can unfold this compartment into a 5-foot-diameter
portal on the ground. The first person to Step into the portal
from an adjacent square is teleported away. This has the same
effect as an 5th-level dimension door spell, except the affected
creature takes the knapsack with them. When the portal is
used, or at the start of your next turn if it hasn’t been used,
Core Rulebook
612
