Spellcasters with Focus Spells
If you are a spellcaster, your focus spells are the same
tradition of spell as the class that gave you the focus
spell. A bard’s are occult, a cleric’s are divine, a druid’s
are primal, a wizard’s are arcane, and a sorcerer’s are
determined by their bloodline.
Non-Spellcasters with Focus Spells
If you get focus spells from a class or other source that
doesn’t grant spellcasting ability (for example, if you’re
a monk with the Ki Strike feat), the ability that gives you
focus spells also provides your proficiency rank for spell
attack rolls and spell DCs, as well as the magical tradition of
your focus spells. You gain the ability to Cast a Spell and use
any spellcasting actions necessary to cast your focus spells
(see below). However, you don’t qualify for feats and other
rules that require you to be a spellcaster.
Innate Spells
Certain spells are natural to your character, typically
coming from your ancestry or a magic item rather than
your class. You can cast your innate spells even if you
aren’t a member of a spellcasting class. The ability that
gives you an innate spell tells you how often you can cast
it—usually once per day—and its magical tradition. Innate
spells are refreshed during your daily preparations. Innate
cantrips are cast at will and automatically heightened as
normal for cantrips (see Cantrips on page  300) unless
otherwise specified.
You’re always trained in spell attack rolls and spell DCs
for your innate spells, even if you aren’t otherwise trained
in spell attack rolls or spell DCs. If your proficiency in
spell attack rolls or spell DCs is expert or better, apply
that proficiency to your innate spells, too. You use your
Charisma modifier as your spellcasting ability modifier
for innate spells unless otherwise specified.
If you have an innate spell, you can cast it, even if
it’s not of a spell level you can normally cast. This is
especially common for monsters, which might be able to
cast innate spells far beyond what a character of the
same level could use.
You can’t use your spell slots to cast your innate
spells, but you might have an innate spell and
also be able to prepare or cast the same spell
through your class. You also can’t heighten
innate spells, but some abilities that
grant innate spells might give you the
spell at a higher level than its base level or
change the level at which you cast the spell.
Casting Spells
The casting of a spell can range from a simple word of
magical might that creates a fleeting effect to a complex
process taking minutes or hours to cast and producing
a long-term impact. Casting a Spell is a special activity
that takes a number of actions defined by the spell. When
you Cast a Spell, your spellcasting creates obvious visual
manifestations of the gathering magic, although feats such
as Conceal Spell (page 210) and Melodious Spell (page 101)
can help hide such manifestations or otherwise prevent
observers from noticing that you are casting.
CAST A SPELL
You cast a spell you have prepared or in your repertoire. Casting
a Spell is a special activity that takes a variable number of actions
depending on the spell, as listed in each spell’s stat block. As soon
as the spellcasting actions are complete, the spell effect occurs.
Some spells are cast as a reaction or free action. In those
cases, you Cast the Spell as a reaction or free action (as
appropriate) instead of as an activity. Such cases will be noted
in the spell’s stat block—for example, “[reaction] verbal.”
Long Casting Times Some spells take minutes or hours to
cast. The Cast a Spell activity for these spells includes a mix
of the listed spell components, but it’s not necessary to break
down which one you’re providing at a given time. You can’t use
other actions or reactions while casting such a spell, though at
the GM’s discretion, you might be able to speak a few sentences.
As with other activities that take a long time, these spells have
the exploration trait, and you can’t cast them in an encounter.
If combat breaks out while you’re casting one, your spell is
disrupted (see Disrupted and Lost Spells on page 303).
FOCUS POINTS FROM MULTIPLE SOURCES
It’s possible, especially through archetypes, to gain focus
spells and Focus Points from more than one source. If this
happens, you have just one focus pool, adding all the Focus
Points together to determine the total size of your pool.
(Remember that the maximum number of Focus Points a
pool can have is 3.) If you have multiple abilities that give
you a focus pool, each one adds 1 Focus Point to your pool.
For instance, if you were a cleric with the Domain Initiate
feat, you would have a pool with 1 Focus Point. Let’s say
you then took the champion multiclass archetype and the
Healing Touch feat. Normally, this feat would give you a
focus pool. Since you already have one, it instead increases
your existing pool’s capacity by 1.
Focus Points are not differentiated by source; you
can spend any of your Focus Points on any of your
focus spells. Likewise, when you Refocus, you get
back a point as long as you follow the guidelines
of any abilities that granted you focus
spells. Having Focus Points from multiple
sources doesn’t change the tradition of
your spells; if you had both cleric domain
spells and druid order spells, your domain spells
would remain divine and the order spells primal. This
could mean that you need to keep track of a different
proficiency and ability modifier with the spell DC and spell
attack roll of different focus spells.
Core Rulebook
302
