ones, and are broken into increments of 2, 5, and 10.
You’ll often apply the adjustments for uncommon, rare,
or unique subjects.
TABLE 10–6: DC ADJUSTMENTS

Difficulty
Adjustment
Rarity

Incredibly easy
–10
—

Very easy
–5
—

Easy
–2
—

Hard
+2
Uncommon

Very hard
+5
Rare

Incredibly hard
+10
Unique
The adjustments’ names don’t translate to how hard a
task actually is for a PC or group of PCs, and adjustments
aren’t meant to balance out or replace PCs’ bonuses and
penalties. PCs who invest in a skill will become better and
better at that skill as they increase in level. For example, even
the best 1st-level PC has grim odds against an incredibly
hard 1st-level DC, with a huge chance of critical failure, but
by 20th level, an optimized character with a modicum of
magic or assistance can take down incredibly hard 20th-
level DCs over half the time, critically failing only on a 1. At
higher levels, many groups will find that the very hard DC is
more like standard for them; keep that in mind if you need
a check that presents a true challenge to a high level group.
You might use different DCs for a task based on the
particular skill or statistic used for the check. Let’s say
your PCs encounter a magical tome about aberrant
creatures. The tome is 4th-level and has the occult trait,
so you set the DC of an Occultism check to Identify the
Magic to 19, based on Table 10–5. As noted in Identify
Magic, other magic-related skills can typically be used at
a higher DC, so you might decide the check is very hard
for a character using Arcana and set the DC at 24 for
characters using that skill. If a character in your group
had Aberration Lore, you might determine that it would
be easy or very easy to use that skill and adjust the DC
to 17 or 14. These adjustments aren’t taking the place of
characters’ bonuses, modifiers, and penalties—they are
due to the applicability of the skills being used.
GROUP ATTEMPTS
The DCs in this chapter give an individual character a
strong and increasing chance of success if they have some
proficiency. On occasion, though, you’ll have a task that
only one person in the group needs to succeed at, but that
everyone can attempt. The number of dice being rolled
means that there’s a very high chance at least one of them
will succeed. Most of the time, that’s perfectly fine, but
sometimes you’ll want the task to be a challenge, with
some uncertainty as to whether the party can succeed. In
these cases, make the check very hard, or incredibly hard
if you want it to be particularly difficult or at high levels.
At these DCs, most of the party will probably fail, but
someone will probably still succeed, likely a character who
has heavily invested in the given skill, as is expected for
specialized characters.
Minimum Proficiency
Sometimes succeeding at a particular task requires a
character to have a specific proficiency rank in addition
to a success on the check. Locks and traps often require a
certain proficiency rank to successfully use the Pick a Lock
or Disable a Device actions of Thievery. A character whose
proficiency rank is lower than what’s listed can attempt
the check, but they can’t succeed. You can apply similar
minimum proficiencies to other tasks. You might decide,
for example, that a particular arcane theorem requires
training in Arcana to understand. An untrained barbarian
can’t succeed at the check, but she can still attempt it if she
wants—after all, she needs to have a chance to critically
fail and get erroneous information!
For checks that require a minimum proficiency, keep
the following guidelines in mind. A 2nd-level or lower
task should almost never require expert proficiency,
a 6th-level or lower task should almost never require
master proficiency, and a 14th-level or lower task should
almost never require legendary proficiency. If they did, no
character of the appropriate level could succeed.
Specific Actions
Several parts of this book, most notably Chapter 4: Skills,
state that you as the GM set the DCs for certain checks or
determine other parameters. Here are guidelines for the most
common tasks. Remember that all of these are guidelines,
and you can adjust them as necessary to suit the situation.
CRAFT
When a character Crafts an item, use the item’s level
to determine the DC, applying the adjustments from
Table 10–6 for the item’s rarity if it’s not common. You
might also apply the easy DC adjustment for an item the
crafter has made before. Repairing an item usually uses the
DC of the item’s level with no adjustments, though you
might adjust the DC to be more difficult for an item of a
higher level than the character can Craft.
EARN INCOME
You set the task level when someone tries to Earn Income.
The highest-level task available is usually the same as the
level of the settlement where the character is located. If
you don’t know the settlement’s level, it’s usually 0–1 for a
village, 2–4 for a town, or 5–7 for a city. A PC might need
to travel to a metropolis or capital to find tasks of levels
8-10, and to the largest cities in the world or another plane
to routinely find tasks beyond that. Some locations might
have higher-level tasks available based on the nature of
the settlement. A major port might have higher-level tasks
Core Rulebook
504
