Goblins have a reputation as simple creatures who love
songs, fire, and eating disgusting things and who hate
reading, dogs, and horses—and there are a great many
for whom this description fits perfectly. However, great
changes have come to goblinkind, and more and more
goblins resist conformity to these stereotypes. Even among
goblins that are more worldly, many still exemplify their
old ways in some small manner, just to a more sensible
degree. Some goblins remain deeply fascinated with fire or
fearlessly devour a meal that might turn others’ stomachs.
Others are endless tinkerers and view their companions’
trash as the components of gadgets yet to be made.
Though goblins’ culture has splintered radically, their
reputation has changed little. As such, goblins who travel
to larger cities are frequently subjected to derision, and
many work twice as hard at proving their worth.
If you want a character who is eccentric, enthusiastic,
and fun-loving, you should play a goblin.
You Might...
•	 Strive to prove that you have a place among other
civilized peoples, perhaps even to yourself.
•	 Fight tooth and nail—sometimes literally—to
protect yourself and your friends from danger.
•	 Lighten the heavy emotional burdens others carry
(and amuse yourself) with antics and pranks.
Others Probably...
•	 Work to ensure you don’t accidentally (or
intentionally) set too many things on fire.
•	 Assume you can’t—or won’t—read.
•	 Wonder how you survive given your ancestry’s
typical gastronomic choices, reckless behavior,
and love of fire.
Physical Description
Goblins are stumpy humanoids with large bodies,
scrawny limbs, and massively oversized heads with large
ears and beady red eyes. Their skin ranges from green to
gray to blue, and they often bear scars, boils, and rashes.
Goblins average 3 feet tall. Most are bald, with little
or no body hair. Their jagged teeth fall out and regrow
constantly, and their fast metabolism means they eat
constantly and nap frequently. Mutations are also more
common among goblins than other peoples, and goblins
usually view particularly salient mutations as a sign of
power or fortune.
Goblins reach adolescence by the age of 3 and adulthood
4 or 5 years later. Goblins can live 50 years or more,
but without anyone to protect them from each other or
themselves, few live past 20 years of age.
Society
Goblins tend to flock to strong leaders, forming small
tribes. These tribes rarely number more than a hundred,
Goblin
The convoluted histories other people cling to don’t interest goblins. These small folk live
in the moment, and they prefer tall tales over factual records. The wars of a few decades
ago might as well be from the ancient past. Misunderstood by other people, goblins are
happy how they are. Goblin virtues are about being present, creative, and honest. They
strive to lead fulfilled lives, rather than worrying about how their journeys will end. To
tell stories, not nitpick the facts. To be small, but dream big.
Core Rulebook
46
