POTION OF WATER BREATHING
ITEM 3
CONSUMABLE
 MAGICAL
 POTION
 TRANSMUTATION
Price 11 gp
Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk L
Activate [one-action] Interact
This filmy, gray potion smells of an old fish midden and tastes
even worse. After drinking this potion, you gain the effects of
a 2nd-level water breathing spell for 1 hour.
SHRINKING POTION
ITEM 4+
CONSUMABLE
 MAGICAL
 POTION
 TRANSMUTATION
Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk L
Activate [one-action] Interact; Onset 1 minute
This fungus-flavored potion conveys the effects of the shrink
spell to make you and all your gear smaller. After the onset,
you remain small for 10 minutes.
Type standard; Level 4; Price 15 gp
Type greater; Level 8; Price 90 gp
This potion has no onset, lasts for 1 hour, and grants the
effects of a 4th-level shrink spell. In addition, you gain a +2
item bonus to Stealth checks while shrunken.
SERUM OF SEX SHIFT
ITEM 7
CONSUMABLE
 MAGICAL
 POTION
 TRANSMUTATION
Price 60 gp
Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk L
Activate [one-action] Interact
Upon drinking this potion, your biology instantly transforms to
take on a set of sexual characteristics of your choice, changing
your appearance and physiology accordingly. You have mild
control over the details of this change, but you retain a strong
“family resemblance” to your former appearance.
The magic functions instantaneously and can’t be
counteracted. Your new anatomy is as healthy and functional
as your previous body’s, potentially allowing you to procreate
(depending on your ancestry’s biology). Drinking a subsequent
serum of sex shift allows you to either revert back to your
original form or adopt other sexual characteristics, as you
choose. The elixir has no effect if you are pregnant or from
an ancestry with no sexual differentiation. Most ancestries
have a wide spectrum of sexual differentiation, some common,
others more rare.
TRUESIGHT POTION 
ITEM 16
CONSUMABLE
 DIVINATION
 MAGICAL
 POTION
Price 1,500 gp
Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk L
Activate [one-action] Interact
Upon drinking this clear, refreshing potion, you can see things
as they actually are. You gain the benefits of a 7th-level true
seeing spell that has a counteract modifier of +25.
TRUTH POTION
ITEM 6
UNCOMMON
 CONSUMABLE
 ENCHANTMENT
 MAGICAL
 MENTAL
 POTION
Price 46 gp
Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk L
Activate [one-action] Interact
For 10 minutes after drinking this astringent potion, you
can’t intentionally lie and may be compelled to tell the truth.
Upon drinking the potion, attempt a DC 19 Will save. You can
voluntarily fail or critically fail.
Success The potion does not affect you.
Failure When you speak, you must tell the truth.
Critical Failure As failure, and when someone asks you a
question, you must attempt another DC 19 Will saving
throw. If you fail this saving throw, you must answer the
question truthfully if you are able to do so; if you succeed,
you are temporarily immune to further attempts to ask the
same question within the potion’s duration.
Scrolls
A scroll contains a single spell that you can cast without
having to expend a spell slot. A scroll can be Crafted to
contain nearly any spell, so the types of scrolls available
are limited only by the number of spells in the game. The
exceptions are cantrips, focus spells, and rituals, none of
which can be put on scrolls. The spell on a scroll can
be cast only once, and the scroll is destroyed as part of
the casting. The spell on the scroll is cast at a particular
spell level, as determined by the scroll. For instance, a
scroll of magic missile (1st level) can be used to cast the
1st-level version of magic missile, but not a magic missile
heightened to 2nd level. If no level is listed, the scroll can
be used to cast the spell at its lowest level.
If you find a scroll, you can try to figure out what spell
it contains. If the spell is a common spell from your spell
list or a spell you know, you can spend a single Recall
Knowledge action and automatically succeed at identifying
the scroll’s spell. If it’s not, you must use Identify Magic
(page 238) to learn what spell the scroll holds.
Casting a Spell from a Scroll
Casting a Spell from a scroll requires holding the scroll
in one hand and activating it with a Cast a Spell activity
using the normal number of actions for that spell.
To Cast a Spell from a scroll, the spell must appear on
your spell list. Because you’re the one Casting the Spell,
use your spell attack roll and spell DC. The spell also
gains the appropriate trait for your tradition (arcane,
divine, occult, or primal).
Any physical material components and costs are
provided when a scroll is created, so you don’t need to
provide them when Casting a Spell from a scroll. You
must replace any required material component for that
spell with a somatic component. If the spell requires a
focus, you must have that focus to Cast the Spell from
a scroll.
Scroll Statistics
All scrolls have the same base statistics unless noted
otherwise. A scroll has light Bulk, and it must be held in
one hand to be activated.
Core Rulebook
564
