items you are wielding or holding unless the effect states
otherwise or the GM determines you’re in a position in
which you wouldn’t.
If you’re unconscious because you’re dying, you can’t
wake up as long as you have 0 Hit Points. If you’re
restored to 1 Hit Point or more via healing, you lose the
dying and unconscious conditions and can act normally
on your next turn.
If you are unconscious and at 0 Hit Points, but not
dying, you naturally return to 1 Hit Point and awaken
after sufficient time passes. The GM determines how long
you remain unconscious, from a minimum of 10 minutes
to several hours. If you receive healing during this time,
you lose the unconscious condition and can act normally
on your next turn.
If you’re unconscious and have more than 1 Hit Point
(typically because you are asleep or unconscious due to
an effect), you wake up in one of the following ways.
Each causes you to lose the unconscious condition.
• 	 You take damage, provided the damage doesn’t
reduce you to 0 Hit Points. (If the damage reduces
you to 0 Hit Points, you remain unconscious and
gain the dying condition as normal.)
• 	 You receive healing, other than the natural healing
you get from resting.
• 	 Someone nudges or shakes you awake using an
Interact action.
• 	 Loud noise is being made around you—though
this isn’t automatic. At the start of your turn,
you automatically attempt a Perception
check against the noise’s DC (or the
lowest DC if there is more than one
noise), waking up if you succeed.
This is often DC 5 for a battle, but if
creatures are attempting to stay quiet around you,
this Perception check uses their Stealth DC. Some
magical effects make you sleep so deeply that they
don’t allow you to attempt this Perception check.
•	 If you are simply asleep, the GM decides you wake
up either because you have had a restful night’s
sleep or something disrupted that rest.
Wounded
You have been seriously injured during a fight. Anytime
you lose the dying condition, you become wounded
1 if you didn’t already have the wounded condition. If
you already have the wounded condition, your wounded
condition value instead increases by 1. If you gain the
dying condition while wounded, increase the dying
condition’s value by your wounded value. The wounded
condition ends if someone successfully restores Hit Points
to you with Treat Wounds, or if you are restored to full
Hit Points and rest for 10 minutes.
Doomed
Your life is ebbing away, bringing you ever closer to
death. Some powerful spells and evil creatures can inflict
the doomed condition on you. Doomed always includes
a value. The maximum dying value at which you die is
reduced by your doomed value. For example, if you were
doomed 1, you would die upon reaching dying 3 instead of
dying 4. If your maximum dying value is ever reduced to 0,
you instantly die. When you die, you’re no longer doomed.
Your doomed value decreases by 1 each time you get a
full night’s rest.
Death
After you die, you can’t act or be affected by spells
that target creatures (unless they specifically target
dead creatures), and for all other purposes you
are an object. When you die, you are reduced
to 0 Hit Points if you had a different amount,
and you can’t be brought above 0 Hit Points
as long as you remain dead. Some magic can
bring creatures back to life, such as the
resurrect ritual or the raise dead spell.
Heroic Recovery
If you have at least 1
Hero Point (page 467),
you can spend all of your
remaining Hero Points at the
start of your turn or when your dying
value would increase in order to return to 1
Hit Point, no matter how close to death you
are. You lose the dying condition and
become conscious. You do not
gain the wounded condition (or
increase its value) when you
perform a heroic recovery.
Core Rulebook
460
