Heightened (+1) The number of gallons of water you can target
increases by 1, or the number of pounds of food you can target
increases by 5.
ENLARGE
SPELL 2
POLYMORPH
TRANSMUTATION
Traditions arcane, primal
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal
Range 30 feet; Targets 1 willing creature
Duration 5 minutes
Bolstered by magical power, the target grows to size Large.
Its equipment grows with it but returns to natural size if
removed. The creature is clumsy 1. Its reach increases by 5
feet (or by 10 feet if it started out Tiny), and it gains a +2
status bonus to melee damage. This spell has no effect on a
Large or larger creature.
Heightened (4th) The creature instead grows to size Huge.
The status bonus to melee damage is +4 and the creature’s
reach increases by 10 feet (or 15 feet if the creature started
out Tiny). The spell has no effect on a Huge or larger creature.
Heightened (6th) As level 4, but you can target up to 10 creatures.
ENTANGLE
SPELL 2
PLANT
TRANSMUTATION
Traditions primal
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal
Range 120 feet; Area all squares in a 20-foot-radius burst that
contain plants
Duration 1 minute
Plants in the area entangle creatures. The area counts as difficult
terrain. Each round that a creature starts its turn in the area,
it must attempt a Reflex save. On a failure, it takes a –10-foot
circumstance penalty to its Speeds until it leaves the area, and
on a critical failure, it is also immobilized for 1 round. Creatures
can attempt to Escape at entangle’s DC to remove these effects.
ENTHRALL
SPELL 3
AUDITORY
ENCHANTMENT
EMOTION
Traditions arcane, occult
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal
Range 120 feet; Targets all creatures in range
Saving Throw Will; Duration sustained
Your words fascinate your targets. You speak or sing without
interruption throughout the casting and duration. Targets
who notice your speech or song might give their undivided
attention; each target must attempt a Will save. The GM might
grant a circumstance bonus (to a maximum of +4) if the target
is of an opposing religion, ancestry, or political leaning, or is
otherwise unlikely to agree with what you’re saying.
Each creature that comes within range has to attempt a
save when you Sustain the Spell. If you’re speaking, enthrall
gains the linguistic trait.
Critical Success The target is unaffected and notices that you
tried to use magic.
Success The target needn’t pay attention but doesn’t notice
you tried to use magic (it might notice others are enthralled).
Failure The target is fascinated with you. It can attempt another
Will save if it witnesses actions or speech with which it
disagrees. If it succeeds, it’s no longer fascinated and is
temporarily immune for 1 hour. If the target is subject to a
hostile act, or if another creature succeeds at a Diplomacy or
Intimidation check against it, the fascination ends immediately.
Critical Failure As failure, but the target can’t attempt a save
to end the fascination if it disagrees with you.
ETHEREAL JAUNT
SPELL 7
UNCOMMON
CONJURATION
TELEPORTATION
Traditions divine, occult
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal
Duration sustained up to 1 minute
You travel to the Ethereal Plane, which overlaps the Material
Plane. Material Plane creatures can’t see you, and you can
move through things on the Material Plane. You move at half
your normal Speeds, but can move in any direction (including
up and down).
You can see onto the Material Plane within a radius of 60
feet; it is gray, hazy, and concealed from you. You can’t affect
the Material Plane, and you can’t be affected by the Material
Plane except by force effects and abjurations originating there.
When the spell ends, you return to the Material Plane. If
you’re in the air, you fall (unless you can fly), and if you’re
inside an object, you’re pushed into the nearest open space
and take 1d6 damage per 5 feet you were pushed.
If you cast this spell when not on the Material Plane, it is lost.
Heightened (9th) You can target up to five additional willing
creatures at a range of 30 feet. The duration is up to 10 minutes.
FABRICATED TRUTH
SPELL 10
ENCHANTMENT
INCAPACITATION
MENTAL
Traditions occult
Cast [three-actions] material, somatic, verbal
Range 100 feet; Targets up to 5 creatures
Saving Throw Will; Duration varies
Choose a single statement you want the targets to believe. The
fact could be narrow, such as “a dragon is circling overhead
and wants to kill me”; wide-reaching, such as “all humanoids
are disguised abominations”; or conceptual, such as “if I don’t
live a kinder life, I’ll be punished in the afterlife.” The targets’
experiences color how they react to this “truth” and how
their behavior changes. If the statement changes what they
perceive, they treat the change as a sudden revelation.
The effect of the spell depends on the targets’ Will saves. If
a target is already subject to fabricated truth, your spell tries
to counteract it. If the counteract check fails, the outcome of
the target’s saving throw can’t be worse than a success.
Critical Success The target doesn’t believe the statement, and
it knows you tried to trick it.
Success The target doesn’t believe the statement or realize
you tried to trick it.
Failure The target believes the statement for a duration of 1 week.
Critical Failure The target believes the statement with
unlimited duration.
Core Rulebook
336
