Failure You Leap normally.
Critical Failure You Leap normally, but then fall and land prone.
SHOVE [one-action]
ATTACK
Requirements You have at least one hand free. The target
can’t be more than one size larger than you.
You push an opponent away from you. Attempt an Athletics
check against your opponent’s Fortitude DC.
Critical Success You push your opponent up to 10 feet away
from you. You can Stride after it, but you must move the
same distance and in the same direction.
Success You push your opponent back 5 feet. You can Stride
after it, but you must move the same distance and in the
same direction.
Critical Failure You lose your balance, fall, and land prone.
Forced Movement
The Shove action can force a creature to move. When
an effect forces you to move, or if you start falling, the
distance you move is defined by the effect that moved you,
not by your Speed. Because you’re not acting to move, this
doesn’t trigger reactions triggered by movement.
SWIM [one-action]
MOVE
You propel yourself through water. In most calm water, you
succeed at the action without needing to attempt a check. If
you must breathe air and you’re submerged in water, you must
hold your breath each round. If you fail to hold your breath, you
begin to drown (as described on page 478). If the water you are
swimming in is turbulent or otherwise dangerous, you might
have to attempt an Athletics check to Swim.
If you end your turn in water and haven’t succeeded at a
Swim action that turn, you sink 10 feet or get moved by the
current, as determined by the GM. However, if your last action
on your turn was to enter the water, you don’t sink or move
with the current that turn.
Critical Success You move through the water 10 feet, plus 5 feet
per 20 feet of your land Speed (a total of 15 feet for most PCs).
Success You move through the water 5 feet, plus 5 feet per
20 feet of your land Speed (a total of 10 feet for most PCs).
Critical Failure You make no progress, and if you’re holding
your breath, you lose 1 round of air.
Sample Swim Tasks
Untrained lake or other still water
Trained flowing water, like a river
Expert swiftly flowing river
Master stormy sea
Legendary maelstrom, waterfall
TRIP [one-action]
ATTACK
Requirements You have at least one hand free. Your target
can’t be more than one size larger than you.
FALLING
When you fall more than 5 feet, you take falling damage
when you land, which is bludgeoning damage equal to
half the distance you fell. If you take any damage from a
fall, you’re knocked prone when you land.
If you fall into water, snow, or another soft substance,
calculate the damage from the fall as though your fall
were 20 feet shorter. The reduction can’t be greater than
the depth of the water (so when falling into water that is
only 10 feet deep, you treat the fall as 10 feet shorter).
You can Grab an Edge as a reaction (page 472) to reduce
or eliminate the damage from some falls. More detailed
rules for falling damage appear on page 463.
You try to knock an opponent to the ground. Attempt an
Athletics check against the target’s Reflex DC.
Critical Success The target falls and lands prone and takes 1d6
bludgeoning damage.
Success The target falls and lands prone.
Critical Failure You lose your balance and fall and land prone.
Athletics Trained Action
DISARM [one-action]
ATTACK
Requirements You have at least one hand free. The target
can’t be more than one size larger than you.
You try to knock something out of an opponent’s grasp.
Attempt an Athletics check against the opponent’s Reflex DC.
Critical Success You knock the item out of the opponent’s
grasp. It falls to the ground in the opponent’s space.
Success You weaken your opponent’s grasp on the item. Until
the start of that creature’s turn, attempts to Disarm the
opponent of that item gain a +2 circumstance bonus, and
the target takes a –2 circumstance penalty to attacks with
the item or other checks requiring a firm grasp on the item.
Critical Failure You lose your balance and become flat-footed
until the start of your next turn.
Crafting (Int)
You can use this skill to create, understand, and repair items.
Even if you’re untrained, you can Recall Knowledge
(page 238).
•	 Recall Knowledge about alchemical reactions, the
value of items, engineering, unusual materials,
and alchemical or mechanical creatures. The GM
determines which creatures this applies to, but it
usually includes constructs.
REPAIR
EXPLORATION
MANIPULATE
Requirements You have a repair kit (page 291).
You spend 10 minutes attempting to fix a damaged item, placing
the item on a stable surface and using the repair  kit with
4
Skills
243
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Skills
Feats
Equipment
Spells
The Age of
Lost OMENS
Playing the
Game
Game
mastering
Crafting
& Treasure
Appendix
