Taldan
Renowned as artisans, scholars, and soldiers, Taldans have spread throughout Avistan,
as the empire of Taldor once spanned almost half of the northern continent. Taldans
often have brown hair, pale-white to deep-bronze skin, and green, gray, or amber eyes.
Their native language, Taldane, is so widespread that it is also called Common.
Tian
Few in number in the Inner Sea region, Tians originally come from myriad nations
in Tian Xia, a continent on the opposite side of the world. They typically have dark
hair, but their body types, skin tones, and eye colors vary greatly, as “Tian” is in fact
a general term describing several ethnicities. Tians have access to the Tien language.
Ulfen
The coastal raiders of the Ulfen clans are skilled sailors and bodyguards. They’re
often tall, with pale to ruddy skin and blond, light-brown, or red hair. They typically
show pride in their appearances by adorning themselves with furs, horn, and ivory.
Ulfen have access to the Skald language.
Varisian
Varisians historically favored a nomadic life of roving caravans, but today many lead
a settled lifestyle in places like Ustalav and their namesake land. Their skin tones
typically range from tawny beige to khaki. They have a wide variety of hair colors
from platinum to red to brown, and their large, expressive eyes range into even rarer
colors like violet and gold. Varisians have access to the Varisian language.
Vudrani
Though the empire of Vudra is far to the east, it has a foothold in the Inner Sea on
the island of Jalmeray. A widespread belief in reincarnation makes dedication to
self-improvement a hallmark of Vudrani culture. Vudrani typically have dark eyes
and skin tones that run from umber to tawny. Their hair is often black and ranges
in thickness and texture. Piercings, jewelry, and makeup are common adornments
among Vudrani. Vudrani have access to the Vudrani language.
Dwarves
For untold eons, the dwarven people dwelled in the lightless reaches of the Darklands.
It wasn’t until after Earthfall that the dwarves undertook the legendary Quest for
Sky, during which the majority of dwarves made a pilgrimage to relocate to the
surface of Golarion. In doing so, they not only drove the orcs to the surface before
them, but also established several immense Sky Citadels at each location where
they emerged from the realm below. Today, three major ethnicities of dwarves exist,
each associated with one of three altitude bands: the grondaksen dwarves (who
still dwell in the upper reaches of the Darklands), the ergaksen dwarves (the most
widespread heritage, and those who dwell on or adjacent to the surface world), and
the holtaksen dwarves (the least populous—dwarves who dwell only among the
highest mountain reaches).
Elves
Golarion is not the original elven home world, but those elves who dwell here
today are considered native to the planet. These people first came to Golarion from
the neighboring planet of Castrovel via a network of portals known as aiudara.
While elves abandoned Golarion for several thousand years after the devastation of
Earthfall, they have since returned in force. The most populous elves are the aiudeen,
elves who have acclimated to temperate forest lands. These are the elves who rule
the nation of Kyonin and are most often encountered in other societies. To the south,
the mualijae elves have acclimated to the sweltering jungles of the Mwangi Expanse,
while far to the north the ilverani elves (known to some as the snowcasters) dwell
SHOANTI
VARISIAN
VUDRANI
TALDAN
TIAN
ULFEN
THE AGE OF LOST OMENS
431
8
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Skills
Feats
Equipment
Spells
The Age of
Lost OMENS
Playing the
Game
Game
mastering
Crafting
& Treasure
Appendix
