Chapter 6: Equipment
To make your mark on the world, you’ll need to have the right equipment, including
armor, weapons, and other gear. This chapter presents the various equipment that you can
purchase during character creation. You can usually find these items for sale in most cities
and other large settlements.
TABLE 6–1: COIN VALUES
Coins
CP
SP
GP
PP
Copper piece (cp)
1
1/10
1/100	 1/1,000
Silver piece (sp)
10
1
1/10
1/100
Gold piece (gp)
100
10
1
1/10
Platinum piece (pp)
1,000
100
10
1
Your character starts out with 15 gold pieces (150 silver
pieces) to spend on any common items from this chapter.
Items with an uncommon rarity can be purchased only if
you have special access from abilities you selected during
character creation or your GM gives you permission to
purchase them.
Once you’ve purchased your starting items, there are
three main ways to gain new items and equipment: you
can find them during an adventure, make them using the
Crafting skill, or purchase them from a merchant.
Coins and Currency
Though you might be able to barter valuable items in
some areas, currency is the most versatile way to make
transactions when you head to market. The most common
currency is coins. For most commoners and beginning
adventurers, the standard unit is the silver piece (sp). Each
silver piece is a standard weight of silver and is typically
accepted by any merchant or kingdom no matter where
it was minted. There are three other common types of
coins, each likewise standardized in weight and value. The
first is the copper piece (cp). Each copper piece is worth
one‑tenth of a silver piece. The gold piece (gp) is often used
for purchasing magic items and other expensive items, as
1 gold piece is worth 10 silver pieces or 100 copper pieces.
The platinum piece (pp) is used by nobles to demonstrate
their wealth, for the purchase of very expensive items, or
simply as a way to easily transport large sums of currency.
A platinum piece is worth 10 gold pieces, 100 silver pieces,
or 1,000 copper pieces. See Table 6–1: Coin Values for the
exchange rates of common types of coins.
Other Currency
Art objects, gems, and raw materials (such as those used
for the Craft activity) can be used much like currency:
you can sell them for the same Price you can buy them.
Price
Most items in the following tables have a Price, which is
the amount of currency it typically takes to purchase that
item. An item with a Price of “—” can’t be purchased. An
item with a Price of 0 is normally free, but its value could
be higher based on the materials used to create it. Most
items can be sold for half their Price, but coins, gems, art
objects, and raw materials (such as components for the
Craft activity) can be exchanged for their full Price.
Item Level
Each item has an item level, which represents the item’s
complexity and any magic used in its construction.
Simpler items with a lower level are easier to construct,
and you can’t Craft items that have a higher level than
your own (page 243). If an item’s level isn’t listed, its level
is 0. While characters can use items of any level, GMs
should keep in mind that allowing characters access to
items far above their current level may have a negative
impact on the game.
Carrying and Using Items
A character typically has two hands, allowing them to hold
an item in each hand or a single two-handed item using
both hands. Drawing or changing how you’re carrying an
item usually requires you to use an Interact action (though
to drop an item, you use the Release action instead).
Table 6–2: Changing Equipment on page 273 lists some
ways that you might change the items you’re holding or
carrying, and the number of hands you need to do so.
Many ways of using items require you to spend
multiple actions. For example, drinking a potion stowed in
your belt pouch requires using an Interact action to draw
it and then using a second action to drink it as described in
its Activate entry (page 532).
Bulk
Carrying especially heavy or unwieldy items can make
it more difficult for you to move, as can overloading
yourself with too much gear. The Bulk value of an item
reflects how difficult the item is to handle, representing its
size, weight, and general awkwardness. If you have a high
Strength score, you usually don’t need to worry about
Bulk unless you’re carrying numerous substantial items.
Starting Money
15 gp (150 sp)
6
271
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Skills
Feats
Equipment
Spells
The Age of
Lost OMENS
Playing the
Game
Game
mastering
Crafting
& Treasure
Appendix
