but not see, what’s going on outside the stone, and you can
cast spells while in the stone as long as they don’t require line
of effect beyond the stone.
Significant physical damage to the stone while you are
inside it expels you and deals 10d6 damage to you. Passwall
expels you without dealing damage and ends meld into stone.
You can Dismiss this spell.
MENDING
SPELL 1
TRANSMUTATION
Traditions arcane, divine, occult, primal
Cast 10 minutes (somatic, verbal)
Range touch; Targets non-magical object of light Bulk or less
You repair the target item. You restore 5 Hit Points per spell level
to the target, potentially removing the broken condition if this
repairs it past the item’s Broken Threshold. You can’t replace lost
pieces or repair an object that’s been completely destroyed.
Heightened (2nd) You can target a non-magical object of 1
Bulk or less.
Heightened (3rd) You can target a non-magical object of 2
Bulk or less, or a magical object of 1 Bulk or less.
MESSAGE
CANTRIP 1
AUDITORY
CANTRIP
ILLUSION
LINGUISTIC
MENTAL
Traditions arcane, divine, occult
Cast [one-action] verbal
Range 120 feet; Targets 1 creature
Duration see below
You mouth words quietly, but instead of coming out of your
mouth, they’re transferred directly to the ears of the target.
While others can’t hear your words any better than if you
normally mouthed them, the target can hear your words as
if they were standing next to you. The target can give a brief
response as a reaction, or as a free action on their next turn
if they wish, but they must be able to see you and be within
range to do so. If they respond, their response is delivered
directly to your ear, just like the original message.
Heightened (3rd) The spell’s range increases to 500 feet.
METEOR SWARM
SPELL 9
EVOCATION
FIRE
Traditions arcane, primal
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal
Range 500 feet; Area 4 40-foot bursts
Saving Throw basic Reflex
You call down four meteors that explode in a fiery blast. Each
meteor deals 6d10 bludgeoning damage to any creatures in
the 10-foot burst at the center of its area of effect before
exploding, dealing 14d6 fire damage to any creatures in
its 40-foot burst. The meteors’ central 10-foot bursts can’t
overlap, and a creature takes the same amount of fire
damage no matter how many overlapping explosions it’s
caught in. The saving throw applies to both the bludgeoning
and the fire damage.
Heightened (+1) The bludgeoning damage increases by 1d10,
and the fire damage increases by 2d6.
MIND BLANK
SPELL 8
UNCOMMON
ABJURATION
Traditions arcane, occult
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal
Range 30 feet; Targets 1 creature
Duration until the next time you make your daily preparations
Powerful wards hide a creature from divination magic. The
target gains a +4 status bonus to saves against mental effects.
Mind blank attempts to counteract any detection, revelation,
and scrying effects as if its spell level were 1 higher than its
actual level. On a success, the divination effect functions
normally except that it detects nothing about the target and
its possessions. For instance, detect magic would still detect
other magic in the area, but not any magic on the target.
MIND PROBE
SPELL 5
UNCOMMON
DIVINATION
LINGUISTIC
MENTAL
Traditions arcane, occult
Cast 1 minute (material, somatic, verbal)
Range 30 feet; Targets 1 creature
Saving Throw Will; Duration sustained up to 1 minute
You cast your thoughts through a creature’s mind, sifting for
information. You access the target’s memories and knowledge
unless it fends you off with a Will save.
Success The target is unaffected.
Failure Each round of the spell’s duration, you can Sustain the
Spell to ask a different question and attempt to uncover
the answer. For each question, the target can attempt
a Deception check against your spell DC; if the target
succeeds, you don’t learn the answer, and on a critical
success, the target gives you a false answer that you believe
is truthful Once you’ve asked the target a given question,
asking it again, even with a separate casting of mind probe,
produces the same result.
Critical Failure As failure, and the target takes a –4 circumstance
penalty to Deception checks against your questions.
MIND READING
SPELL 3
UNCOMMON
DETECTION
DIVINATION
MENTAL
Traditions arcane, occult
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal
Range 30 feet; Targets 1 creature
Saving Throw Will; Duration 1 round or sustained up to 1 minute
With a cursory mental touch, you attempt to read the target’s
mind. It must attempt a Will save. The target then becomes
temporarily immune to your mind reading for 1 hour.
Critical Success The target perceives vague surface thoughts
from you when you Cast the Spell.
Success You find out whether the target’s Intelligence modifier
is higher than, equal to, or lower than yours.
Failure You perceive vague surface thoughts from the target when
you Cast the Spell, and you find out whether its Intelligence
modifier is higher than, equal to, or lower than yours.
Critical Failure As failure, and for the duration of the spell, you
can Sustain the Spell to detect the target’s surface thoughts
again. The target doesn’t receive any additional saves.
351
7
SPELLS
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Skills
Feats
Equipment
Spells
The Age of
Lost OMENS
Playing the
Game
Game
mastering
Crafting
& Treasure
Appendix
