Spellcasters cast spells from one of four different spell
lists, each representing a different  magical tradition:
arcane, divine, occult, and primal.
Your class determines which tradition of magic your
spells use. In some cases, such as when a cleric gains
spells from their deity or when a sorcerer gets spells
from their bloodline, you might be able to cast spells
Arcane
Arcane spellcasters use logic
and rationality to categorize
the magic inherent in the
world around them. Because
of its far-reaching approach,
the arcane tradition has
the broadest spell list,
though it’s generally poor
at affecting the spirit or the
soul. Wizards are the most
iconic arcane spellcasters,
poring over tomes and
grimoires, though arcane
sorcerers study the secrets
of their blood to unlock the
power within themselves.
Occult
The practitioners of
occult traditions seek
to understand the
unexplainable, categorize
the bizarre, and otherwise
access the ephemeral in
a systematic way. Bards
are the most iconic occult
spellcasters, collecting
strange esoterica and
using their performances
to influence the mind
or elevate the soul, and
occult sorcerers strive to
understand the mysterious
power in their blood.
Divine
The power of the divine is
steeped in faith, the unseen,
and belief in a power source
from beyond the Material
Plane. Clerics are the most
iconic divine spellcasters,
beseeching the gods to
grant them their magic.
Divine sorcerers can use
the blood of their celestial
or fiendish ancestors
as a divine conduit, and
champions call upon
their gods to grant them
martial prowess through
divine guidance.
Primal
An instinctual connection
to and faith in the world,
the cycle of day and night,
the turning of the seasons,
and the natural selection
of predator and prey drive
the primal tradition. Druids
are the most iconic primal
spellcasters, calling upon
the magic of nature through
deep faith and a connection
to the plants and animals
around them, and primal
sorcerers call upon their fey
or beast blood to harness
the same natural energies.
from a different spell list. In these cases, the spell uses
your magic tradition, not the list the spell normally
comes from. When you cast a spell, add your tradition’s
trait to the spell.
Some types of magic, such as that of most magic
items, don’t belong to any single tradition. These have
the magical trait instead of a tradition trait.
MAGICAL TRADITIONS
slot for at the moment you decide to cast it. This provides
you with more freedom in your spellcasting, but you
have fewer spells in your spell repertoire, as determined
by your character level and class. When you make your
daily preparations, all your spell slots are refreshed, but
you don’t get to change the spells in your repertoire.
Heightened Spells
Both prepared and spontaneous spellcasters can cast a
spell at a higher spell level than that listed for the spell.
This is called heightening the spell. A prepared spellcaster
can heighten a spell by preparing it in a higher-level slot
than its normal spell level, while a spontaneous spellcaster
can heighten a spell by casting it using a higher-level
spell slot, so long as they know the spell at that level
(see Heightened Spontaneous Spells below). When you
heighten your spell, the spell’s level increases to match
the higher level of the spell slot you’ve prepared it in or
used to cast it. This is useful for any spell, because some
effects, such as counteracting, depend on the spell’s level.
In addition, many spells have additional specific
benefits when they are heightened, such as increased
damage. These extra benefits are described at the end
of the spell’s stat block. Some heightened entries specify
one or more levels at which the spell must be prepared
or cast to gain these extra advantages. Each of these
heightened entries states specifically which aspects of
the spell change at the given level. Read the heightened
entry only for the spell level you’re using or preparing;
if its benefits are meant to include any of the effects of
a lower-level heightened entry, those benefits will be
included in the entry.
Other heightened entries give a number after a plus
sign, indicating that heightening grants extra advantages
over multiple levels. The listed effect applies for every
increment of levels by which the spell is heightened above
its lowest spell level, and the benefit is cumulative. For
example, fireball says “Heightened (+1) The damage
increases by 2d6.” Because fireball deals 6d6 fire damage
at 3rd level, a 4th-level fireball would deal 8d6 fire
damage, a 5th-level spell would deal 10d6 fire damage,
and so on.
Heightened Spontaneous Spells
If you’re a spontaneous spellcaster, you must know a spell
at the specific level that you want to cast it in order to
heighten it. You can add a spell to your spell repertoire
at more than a single level so that you have more options
when casting it. For example, if you added fireball to your
repertoire as a 3rd-level spell and again as a 5th-level
spell, you could cast it as a 3rd-level or a 5th-level spell;
however, you couldn’t cast it as a 4th-level spell.
Many spontaneous spellcasting classes provide abilities
like the signature spells class feature, which allows you
to cast a limited number of spells as heightened versions
even if you know the spell at only a single level.
299
7
SPELLS
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Skills
Feats
Equipment
Spells
The Age of
Lost OMENS
Playing the
Game
Game
mastering
Crafting
& Treasure
Appendix
