Cantrips
A cantrip is a special type of spell that’s weaker than other
spells but can be used with greater freedom and flexibility.
The title of a cantrip’s stat block says “Cantrip” instead
of “Spell.” Casting a cantrip doesn’t use up your spell
slots; you can cast a cantrip at will, any number of times
per day. If you’re a prepared caster, you have a number of
cantrip spell slots that you use to prepare your cantrips.
You can’t prepare a cantrip in any other slot.
A cantrip is always automatically heightened to half
your level, rounded up. For a typical spellcaster, this means
its level is equal to the highest level of spell slot you have.
Focus Spells
Focus spells are a special type of spell attained directly from
a branch of study, from a deity, or from another specific
source. You can learn focus spells only through special class
features or feats, rather than choosing them from a spell list.
Furthermore, you cast focus spells using a special pool of
Focus Points—you can’t prepare a focus spell in a spell slot
or use your spell slots to cast focus spells; similarly, you can’t
spend your Focus Points to cast spells that aren’t focus spells.
Even some classes that don’t normally grant spellcasting,
such as the champion and monk, can grant focus spells.
Focus spells are automatically heightened to half your
level rounded up, just like cantrips are. You can’t cast a
focus spell if its minimum level is greater than half your
level rounded up, even if you somehow gain access to it.
Casting any of your focus spells costs you 1 Focus Point.
You automatically gain a focus pool of 1 Focus Point the
first time you gain an ability that gives you a focus spell.
You replenish all the Focus Points in your pool during
your daily preparations. You can also use the Refocus
activity to pray, study, meditate, or otherwise reattune
yourself to the source of your focus magic and regain a
Focus Point.
Some abilities allow you to increase the Focus Points
in your pool beyond 1. Typically, these are feats that give
you a new focus spell and increase the number of points
in your pool by 1. Your focus pool can’t have a capacity
beyond 3 Focus Points, even if feats that increase your pool
would cause it to exceed this number.
REFOCUS
CONCENTRATE
EXPLORATION
Requirements You have a focus pool, and you have spent at
least 1 Focus Point since you last regained any Focus Points.
You spend 10 minutes performing deeds to restore your
magical connection. This restores 1 Focus Point to your focus
pool. The deeds you need to perform are specified in the
class or ability that gives you your focus spells. These deeds
can usually overlap with other tasks that relate to the source
of your focus spells. For instance, a cleric with focus spells
from a good deity can usually Refocus while tending the
wounds of their allies, and a wizard of the illusionist school
might be able to Refocus while attempting to Identify Magic
of the illusion school.
Spells that affect certain physical or metaphysical forces
tend to be grouped into particular magical traditions.
Scholars of magic widely agree that all of existence is
composed of some combination of four essences, though
they disagree on the names and particular qualities of
each essence.
Matter
Also called body, material
essence, or physical
essence, matter is the
fundamental building
block that makes up all
physical things in the
universe. The arcane
and primal traditions
are especially attuned
toward manipulating and
shaping matter. Spells
that are used to create
or alter matter most
often come from the
conjuration, evocation, or
transmutation schools.
Mind
Also called thought or
astral essence, the mind
essence allows thinking
creatures to have rational
thoughts, ideas, plans,
logic, and memories. Mind
touches even nonsapient
creatures like animals,
though in a more limited
capacity. Arcane and
occult casters usually
excel at mind spells. Spells
that use mind essence
are usually found in the
divination, enchantment,
and illusion schools.
Spirit
Also called soul, ethereal
essence, or spiritual
essence, spirit is an
otherworldly building block
that makes up a being’s
immaterial and immortal
self. The spirit travels
through the Ethereal Plane
and into the Great Beyond
after the death of the
physical body. The spirit
is most easily affected by
divine and occult spells.
Spirit spells are usually
of the divination or
necromancy schools.
Life
Also called heart, faith,
instinct, or vital essence,
life represents the
animating universal force
within all things. Whereas
matter provides the base
materials for a body, life
keeps it alive and well. This
essence is responsible for
unconscious responses and
belief, such as ancestral
instincts and divine
guidance. The divine and
primal traditions hold
power over life. Life spells
are usually necromancy.
The following entries discuss each essence and the
traditions and spell schools relevant to it; for instance,
evocation spells tend to manipulate matter. The abjuration
school is an unusual case, as abjuration spells draw upon
different essences depending on who they are warding
and what they are protecting against.
THE FOUR ESSENCES
Core Rulebook
300
