DC based on the distance you are trying to jump. When
calling to mind the name of the earl’s second cousin,
you attempt a check to Recall Knowledge. You might
use either the Society skill or a Lore skill you have
that’s relevant to the task, and the DC depends on how
common the knowledge of the cousin’s name might be,
or how many drinks your character had when they were
introduced to the cousin the night before.
No matter the details, for any check you must roll the
d20 and achieve a result equal to or greater than the DC
to succeed. Each of these steps is explained below.
Step 1: Roll D20 and Identify The Modifiers,
Bonuses, and Penalties That Apply
Start by rolling your d20. You’ll then identify all the
relevant modifiers, bonuses, and penalties that apply to the
roll. A modifier can be either positive or negative, but a
bonus is always positive, and a penalty is always negative.
The sum of all the modifiers, bonuses, and penalties you
apply to the d20 roll is called your total modifier for that
statistic.
Nearly all checks allow you to add an ability modifier to
the roll. An ability modifier represents your raw capabilities
and is derived from an ability score, as described on page
20. Exactly which ability modifier you use is determined by
what you’re trying to accomplish. Usually a sword swing
applies your Strength modifier, whereas remembering the
name of the earl’s cousin uses your Intelligence modifier.
When attempting a check that involves something you
have some training in, you will also add your proficiency
bonus. This bonus depends on your proficiency rank:
untrained, trained, expert, master, or legendary. If you’re
untrained, your bonus is +0—you must rely on raw
talent and any bonuses from the situation. Otherwise, the
bonus equals your character’s level plus a certain amount
depending on your rank. If your proficiency rank is trained,
this bonus is equal to your level + 2, and higher proficiency
ranks further increase the amount you add to your level.

Proficiency Rank
Proficiency Bonus

Untrained
0

Trained
Your level + 2

Expert
Your level + 4

Master
Your level + 6

Legendary
Your level + 8
There are three other types of bonus that frequently
appear: circumstance bonuses, item bonuses, and status
bonuses. If you have different types of bonus that would
apply to the same roll, you’ll add them all. But if you have
multiple bonuses of the same type, you can use only the
highest bonus on a given roll—in other words, they don’t
“stack.” For instance, if you have both a proficiency bonus
and an item bonus, you add both to your d20 result, but
if you have two item bonuses that could apply to the same
check, you add only the higher of the two.
GAME CONVENTIONS
Pathfinder has many specific rules, but you’ll also want to
keep these general guidelines in mind when playing.
The GM Has the Final Say
If you’re ever uncertain how to apply a rule, the GM decides.
Of course, Pathfinder is a game, so when adjudicating the
rules, the GM is encouraged to listen to everyone’s point of
view and make a decision that is both fair and fun.
Specific Overrides General
A core principle of Pathfinder is that specific rules
override general ones. If two rules conflict, the more
specific one takes precedence. If there’s still ambiguity,
the GM determines which rule to use. For example, the
rules state that when attacking a concealed creature, you
must attempt a DC 5 flat check to determine if you hit. Flat
checks don’t benefit from modifiers, bonuses, or penalties,
but an ability that’s specifically designed to overcome
concealment might override and alter this. If a rule doesn’t
specify otherwise, default to the general rules presented
in this chapter. While some special rules may also state the
normal rules to provide context, you should always default
to the normal rules even if effects don’t specifically say to.
Rounding
You may need to calculate a fraction of a value, like halving
damage. Always round down unless otherwise specified.
For example, if a spell deals 7 damage and a creature takes
half damage from it, that creature takes 3 damage.
Multiplying
When more than one effect would multiply the same
number, don’t multiply more than once. Instead, combine
all the multipliers into a single multiplier, with each
multiple after the first adding 1 less than its value. For
instance, if one ability doubled the duration of one of your
spells and another one doubled the duration of the same
spell, you would triple the duration, not quadruple it.
Duplicate Effects
When you’re affected by the same thing multiple times, only
one instance applies, using the higher level of the effects, or
the newer effect if the two are the same level. For example,
if you were using mage armor and then cast it again, you’d
still benefit from only one casting of that spell. Casting a
spell again on the same target might get you a better
duration or effect if it were cast at a higher level the second
time, but otherwise doing so gives you no advantage.
Ambiguous Rules
Sometimes a rule could be interpreted multiple ways. If one
version is too good to be true, it probably is. If a rule seems
to have wording with problematic repercussions or doesn’t
work as intended, work with your group to find a good
solution, rather than just playing with the rule as printed.
Core Rulebook
444
