After you drink this elixir, your sight becomes sharper in
darkness. You gain darkvision for the listed duration.
Type lesser; Level 2; Price 6 gp
The duration is 10 minutes.
Type moderate; Level 4; Price 11 gp
The duration is 1 hour.
Type greater; Level 8; Price 90 gp
The duration is 24 hours.
EAGLE-EYE ELIXIR
ITEM 1+
ALCHEMICAL
 CONSUMABLE
 ELIXIR
Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk L
Activate [one-action] Interact
After you drink this elixir, you notice subtle
visual details. For the next hour, you gain an item
bonus to Perception checks that is greater when
attempting to find secret doors and traps.
Type lesser; Level 1; Price 4 gp
The bonus is +1, or +2 to find secret doors and traps.
Type moderate; Level 5; Price 27 gp
The bonus is +2, or +3 to find secret doors and traps.
Type greater; Level 10; Price 200 gp
The bonus is +3, or +4 to find secret doors and traps.
Type major; Level 16; Price 2,000 gp
The bonus is +3, or +4 to find secret doors and traps. Each
time you pass within 10 feet of a secret door or trap, the GM
automatically rolls a secret check for you to find it.
ELIXIR OF LIFE
ITEM 1+
ALCHEMICAL
 CONSUMABLE
 ELIXIR
 HEALING
Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk L
Activate [one-action] Interact
Elixirs of life accelerate the body’s natural healing processes
and immune system. Upon drinking this elixir, you regain the
listed number of Hit Points and gain an item bonus to saving
throws against diseases and poisons for 10 minutes.
Type minor; Level 1; Price 3 gp
The elixir restores 1d6 Hit Points, and the bonus is +1.
Type lesser; Level 5; Price 30 gp
The elixir restores 3d6+6 Hit Points and the bonus is +1.
Type moderate; Level 9; Price 150 gp
The elixir restores 5d6+12 Hit Points, and the bonus is +2.
Type greater; Level 13; Price 600 gp
The elixir restores 7d6+18 Hit Points, and the bonus is +2.
Type major; Level 15; Price 1,300 gp
The elixir restores 8d6+21 Hit Points, and the bonus is +3.
Type true; Level 19; Price 3,000 gp
The elixir restores 10d6+27 Hit Points, and the bonus is +4.
ELIXIR OF REJUVENATION
ITEM 20
UNCOMMON
 ALCHEMICAL
 CONSUMABLE
 ELIXIR
Price —
Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk L
Activate [one-action] Interact
The elixir of rejuvenation restores a creature to full health
and eradicates toxins affecting it. When you drink this elixir,
you’re restored to your maximum Hit Points, and all afflictions
of 20th level or lower affecting you are removed.
You can instead administer this elixir to a creature that
has been dead for a week or less. When you do, that creature
is instantly brought back to life with 1 Hit Point and no spell
slots, Focus Points, or other daily resources.
Craft Requirements philosopher’s stone, true elixir of life
INFILTRATOR’S ELIXIR
ITEM 2
ALCHEMICAL
 CONSUMABLE
 ELIXIR
 POLYMORPH
Price 6 gp
Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk L
Activate [one-action] Interact
Favored by spies and tricksters, an infiltrator’s
elixir is used to alter your appearance. When
imbibed, you take the shape of a humanoid
creature of your size, but different enough so you
might be unrecognizable. If you aren’t a humanoid,
you might take on a form more similar to your own, at
the GM’s discretion.
The creator of the elixir decides the basics of the appearance
you transform into when you imbibe the elixir, including eye
color, skin tone, and hair color. The elixir can’t change your
form into that of a specific person. After the form takes hold,
you retain it for the next 10 minutes.
Drinking this elixir counts as setting up a disguise to
Impersonate. You gain a +4 status bonus to your Deception
DC to avoid others seeing through your disguise, and you add
your level to this DC even if untrained.
JUGGERNAUT MUTAGEN
ITEM 1+
ALCHEMICAL
 CONSUMABLE
 ELIXIR
 MUTAGEN
 POLYMORPH
Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk L
Activate [one-action] Interact
After you drink this mutagen, your body becomes thick and
sturdy. You exhibit a healthy glow, though you tend to be
ponderous and unobservant.
Benefit You gain an item bonus to Fortitude saves and the
listed number of temporary Hit Points. Whenever you are at
maximum Hit Points for at least 1 full minute, you regain the
temporary Hit Points.
Drawback You take a –2 penalty to Will saves, Perception
checks, and initiative rolls.
Type lesser; Level 1; Price 4 gp
The bonus is +1, you gain 5 temporary Hit Points, and the
duration is 1 minute.
Type moderate; Level 3; Price 12 gp
The bonus is +2, you gain 10 temporary Hit Points, and the
duration is 10 minutes.
Type greater; Level 11; Price 300 gp
The bonus is +3, you gain 30 temporary Hit Points, and the
duration is 1 hour. When you roll a success on a Fortitude
save, you get a critical success instead.
Type major; Level 17; Price 3,000 gp
The bonus is +4, you gain 45 temporary Hit Points, and the
duration is 1 hour. When you roll a success on a Fortitude save,
Core Rulebook
548
