The heart of the continent of Avistan has rotted.
This region is dominated by Lake Encarthan, a large
inland sea that was—until recently—a well-traveled hub
for trade. To the southwest stands the militaristic nation
of Molthune, which had long engaged in an intermittent
war against its northern neighbor, Nirmathas, a wooded
nation populated by folk who take their freedom
seriously. An uprising of hobgoblins took advantage of
this conflict, and while hostilities have since abated, the
two nations now share their borders with a third: the
newborn hobgoblin nation Oprak.
North of these war-torn nations lie two other lands
equally forged in the crucible of conflict. Until recently,
the paladins and protectors of the small but strong
nation of Lastwall stood fast against invasions from
orcs, undead, and the like. The wild and rugged Hold of
Belkzen, meanwhile, has long been held by those orcs,
ever since they were driven up from the Darklands below
by the dwarves during their Quest for Sky thousands of
years ago.
Still farther to the north is the nation of Ustalav,
a collection of counties each beset with its own
manifestation of horror and fear, ranging from the
nightmarishly cosmic to the dreadfully infernal.
It was from Ustalav that one of the greatest threats to the
Inner Sea region emerged. The ancient lich Tar-Baphon—
known as the Whispering Tyrant—has been defeated
twice in the distant past—once by Aroden and once by
the heroes of the Shining Crusade, but he has never been
truly destroyed. When the magical seals that kept him
imprisoned below the ominous tower of Gallowspire
were finally sundered in 4719 ar, Tar-Baphon emerged,
bringing with him devastation on such a scale that
the one-time nation of Lastwall, which bore the brunt
of his return to the world, has been utterly scoured. It
exists now only as the Gravelands—the nation that once
stood watch over undead uprisings now consigned to an
undeath of its own. While heroes temporarily thwarted
the Whispering Tyrant’s immediate plans shortly after he
emerged, the lich remains an active menace.
The Whispering Tyrant now rules a kingdom of the
undead on the aptly named Isle of Terror in the center
of Lake Encarthan. The nations lining Lake Encarthan’s
shores have all suffered to varying degrees under the
Whispering Tyrant’s renewed influence, and some are
pursuing unlikely alliances to resist him. The lich is
gathering his resources on the Isle of Terror, and none
can say where or when he will strike next.
Eye of Dread
Core Rulebook
422
