Spell Descriptions
ABYSSAL PLAGUE
SPELL 5
ATTACK
CHAOTIC
DISEASE
EVIL
NECROMANCY
Traditions divine, occult
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal
Range touch; Targets 1 creature
Saving Throw Fortitude
Your touch afflicts the target with Abyssal plague, which
siphons fragments of their soul away to empower the Abyss.
The effect is based on the target’s Fortitude save.
Critical Success The target is unaffected.
Success The target takes 2 evil damage per spell level, and
takes a –2 status penalty to saves against Abyssal plague for
1 day or until the target contracts it, whichever comes first.
Failure The target is afflicted with Abyssal plague at stage 1.
Critical Failure The target is afflicted with Abyssal plague at stage 2.
Abyssal Plague (disease); Level 9. The target can’t recover
from the drained condition from Abyssal plague until the
disease is cured. Stage 1 drained 1 (1 day); Stage 2 drained
increases by 2 (1 day).
ACID ARROW
SPELL 2
ACID
ATTACK
EVOCATION
Traditions arcane, primal
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal
Range 120 feet; Targets 1 creature or object
You conjure an arrow of acid that continues corroding the
target after it hits. Make a spell attack against the target.
On a hit, you deal 3d8 acid damage plus 1d6 persistent acid
damage. On a critical hit, double the initial damage, but not the
persistent damage.
Heightened (+2) The initial damage increases by 2d8, and the
persistent acid damage increases by 1d6.
ACID SPLASH
CANTRIP 1
ACID
ATTACK
CANTRIP
EVOCATION
Traditions arcane, primal
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal
Range 30 feet; Targets 1 creature or object
You splash a glob of acid that splatters creatures and objects
alike. Make a spell attack. If you hit, you deal 1d6 acid damage
plus 1 splash acid damage. On a critical success, the target also
takes 1 persistent acid damage.
Heightened (3rd) The initial damage increases to 1d6 + your
spellcasting ability modifier, and the persistent damage
increases to 2.
Heightened (5th) The initial damage increases to 2d6 + your
spellcasting ability modifier, the persistent damage increases
to 3, and the splash damage increases to 2.
Heightened (7th) The initial damage increases to 3d6 + your
spellcasting ability modifier, the persistent damage increases
to 4, and the splash damage increases to 3.
Heightened (9th) The initial damage increases to 4d6 + your
spellcasting ability modifier, the persistent damage increases
to 5, and the splash damage increases to 4.
AERIAL FORM
SPELL 4
POLYMORPH
TRANSMUTATION
Traditions arcane, primal
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal
Duration 1 minute
You harness your mastery of primal forces to reshape your
body into a Medium flying animal battle form. When you cast
this spell, choose bat, bird, pterosaur, or wasp. You can decide
the specific type of animal (such as an owl or eagle for bird), but
this has no effect on the form’s Size or statistics. While in this
form, you gain the animal trait. You can Dismiss the spell.
You gain the following statistics and abilities regardless of
which battle form you choose:
•	 AC = 18 + your level. Ignore your armor’s check penalty
and Speed reduction.
•	 5 temporary Hit Points.
•	 Low-light vision.
•	 One or more unarmed melee attacks specific to the
battle form you choose, which are the only attacks you
can use. You’re trained with them. Your attack modifier
is +16, and your damage bonus is +5. These attacks are
Dexterity based (for the purpose of the clumsy condition,
for example). If your attack modifier for Dexterity-based
unarmed attacks is higher, you can use it instead.
•	 Acrobatics modifier of +16, unless your own modifier
is higher.
You also gain specific abilities based on the form you choose:
•	 Bat Speed 20 feet, fly Speed 30 feet; precise echolocation
40 feet; Melee [one-action] fangs, Damage 2d8 piercing; Melee [one-action]
wing (agile), Damage 2d6 bludgeoning.
•	 Bird Speed 10 feet, fly Speed 50 feet; Melee [one-action] beak,
Damage 2d8 piercing; Melee [one-action] talon (agile), Damage
1d10 slashing.
•	 Pterosaur Speed 10 feet, fly Speed 40 feet; imprecise
scent 30 feet; Melee [one-action] beak, Damage 3d6 piercing.
•	 Wasp Speed 20 feet, fly Speed 40 feet; Melee [one-action]
stinger, Damage 1d8 piercing plus 1d6 persistent poison.
Heightened (5th) Your battle form is Large and your fly
Speed gains a +10-foot status bonus. You must have enough
space to expand into or the spell is lost. You instead gain 10
temporary HP, attack modifier +18, damage bonus +8, and
Acrobatics +20.
Heightened (6th) Your battle form is Huge, your fly Speed
gains a +15-foot status bonus, and your attacks have 10-foot
reach. You must have enough space to expand into or the spell
is lost. You instead gain AC = 21 + your level, 15 temporary
HP, attack modifier +21, damage bonus +4 and double damage
dice (including persistent damage), and Acrobatics +23.
AIR BUBBLE
SPELL 1
AIR
CONJURATION
Traditions arcane, divine, primal
Cast [reaction] verbal; Trigger A creature within range enters an
environment where it can’t breathe.
Range 60 feet; Targets the triggering creature
Duration 1 minute
Core Rulebook
316
