Halflings reach physical adulthood around the age of 20. A typical halfling can live
to be around 150 years old.
Society
Despite their jovial and friendly nature, halflings don’t usually tend to congregate.
They have no cultural homeland in the Inner Sea region, and they instead weave
themselves throughout the societies of the world. Halflings eke out whatever
living they can manage, many performing menial labor or holding simple service
jobs. Some halflings reject city life, instead turning to the open road and traveling
from place to place in search of fortune and fame. These nomadic halflings often
travel in small groups, sharing hardships and simple pleasures among close friends
and family.
Wherever halflings go, they seamlessly blend into the society they find themselves
in, adapting to the culture of the predominant ancestry around them and adding
their uniquely halfling twists, creating a blend of cultural diffusion that enriches
both cultures.
Alignment and Religion
Halflings are loyal to their friends and their family, but they aren’t afraid to do what
needs to be done in order to survive. Halfling alignments vary, typically closely in
keeping with the alignment of the other ancestries that live around them. Halflings
favor gods that either grant luck, like Desna, or encourage guile, like Norgorber,
and many appreciate Cayden Cailean’s role as a liberator, as well as any religions
common among other ancestries around them.
Names
Halfling names are usually two to three syllables, with a gentle sound that avoids
hard consonants. Preferring their names to sound humble, halflings see overly long
or complex names as a sign of arrogance. This goes only for their own people,
however—halflings have names that suit them, and they understand that elves and
humans might have longer names to suit their own aesthetics. Humans in particular
have a tendency to refer to halflings by nicknames, with “Lucky” being common to
the point of absurdity.
Sample Names
Anafa, Antal, Bellis, Boram, Etune, Filiu, Jamir, Kaleb, Linna, Marra, Miro, Rillka,
Sistra, Sumak, Yamyra
Halfling Heritages
Living across the land, halflings of different heritages might appear in regions far
from are their ancestors lived. Choose one of the following halfling heritages at
1st level.
Gutsy Halfling
Your family line is known for keeping a level head and staving off fear when the
chips were down, making them wise leaders and sometimes even heroes. When
you roll a success on a saving throw against an emotion effect, you get a critical
success instead.
Hillock Halfling
Accustomed to a calm life in the hills, your people find rest and relaxation especially
replenishing, particularly when indulging in creature comforts. When you regain Hit
Points overnight, add your level to the Hit Points regained. When anyone uses the
Medicine skill to Treat your Wounds, you can eat a snack to add your level to the Hit
Points you regain from their treatment.
Hit Points
6
Size
Small
Speed
25 feet
Ability Boosts
Dexterity
Wisdom
Free
Ability Flaw
Strength
Languages
Common
Halfling
Additional languages equal
to your Intelligence modifier
(if it’s positive). Choose from
Dwarven, Elven, Gnomish,
Goblin, and any other languages
to which you have access (such
as the languages prevalent in
your region).
Traits
Halfling
Humanoid
Keen Eyes
Your eyes are sharp, allowing
you to make out small details
about concealed or even
invisible creatures that others
might miss. You gain a +2
circumstance bonus when using
the Seek action to find hidden or
undetected creatures within 30
feet of you. When you target an
opponent that is concealed from
you or hidden from you, reduce
the DC of the flat check to 3 for
a concealed target or 9 for a
hidden one.
2
Ancestries & backgrounds
51
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Skills
Feats
Equipment
Spells
The Age of
Lost OMENS
Playing the
Game
Game
mastering
Crafting
& Treasure
Appendix
