Structures
These items create structures of significant size, typically
by growing from their more manageable, normal forms.
All these items have the structure trait, described in the
sidebar below.
EXPLORER’S YURT
ITEM 10
CONJURATION
 MAGICAL
 STRUCTURE
Price 880 gp
Bulk 1 (when not activated)
Before activation, this item appears to be nothing more than a
simple rolled-up tent, barely large enough to fit four Medium
creatures. Despite attempts to clean it, the tent is perpetually
smudged with dirt in various places.
Activate (10 minutes) Interact; Frequency once per
day; Effect The rolled-up tent expands into a spacious yurt
complete with a fire pit, 10 bedrolls, various cooking utensils,
and basic food and water.
The yurt can house and feed you and up to nine other
Medium creatures that eat roughly as much as a human does;
they need not attempt a Survival check to Subsist when you
use the yurt. Fires and light inside the yurt do not extend
illumination into the area surrounding the yurt, making it
harder to spot from a distance.
A large loop of red cloth hangs from one wall. If this loop
is pulled, which takes an Interact action, the entire yurt
immediately folds back up into its deactivated form, ready for
further travel.
INSTANT FORTRESS
ITEM 16
UNCOMMON
CONJURATION
 MAGICAL
 STRUCTURE
Price 9,300 gp
Bulk L (when not activated)
This metal cube is small enough to fit in your palm. Close
inspection reveals fine lines in the dark gray metal, as though
the cube were folded thousands of times.
Activate [three-actions] command, Interact; Effect You toss the
cube on the ground, and it immediately unfolds into an
adamantine fortress.
The fortress is 20 feet square and 30 feet high, with adamantine
stairs leading up to three sets of battlements at heights of 10
feet and 20 feet and at the top. Arrow slits along the lower
battlements and crenelations at the top provide standard cover
to anyone within the fortress. There’s no roof, leaving an open,
10-foot-square vertical shaft through the center of the structure.
As a magical structure, the fortress has the structure trait.
Because it expands outward, the fortress can’t catch creatures
inside it as a magical structure normally does. Instead, it pushes
those creatures back. It can’t push a creature into a surface or
hazard this way, and stops expanding if that would happen.
The fortress has a single door in the center of one wall on
the ground level, and the door appears directly in front of
you when you activate the fortress. Provided you’re within
100 feet of the door, you can cause the door to open or slam
shut and lock by spending a single action to issue a verbal
command, which has the auditory trait. The DC to Force Open
the door or Pick its Lock is 40.
You can instantly return the instant fortress to its cube form
by spending a single action to issue a verbal command, which
has the auditory trait. Once deactivated, the fortress can’t be
activated again for 4 hours.
If the fortress becomes damaged, it can be repaired
only with a remake spell or by someone who is legendary
at Crafting.
POCKET STAGE
ITEM 5
CONJURATION
 MAGICAL
 STRUCTURE
Price 138 gp
Bulk L (when not activated)
This item appears to be a miniature replica of a theater.
It includes a small pocket full of minute set dressing and
costumed paper dolls.
Activate (1 minute) command, envision, Interact; Effect You
place the miniature theater on the ground, filling it with any
set dressing and up to six figures you choose. Then, you tap
a rhythm on the miniature, causing it to grow into a modest
stage 20 feet wide and 15 feet deep. It’s dressed with the
decorations you selected, and simple mannequins wear the
costumes you chose. A wooden proscenium arch frames the
stage, and simple curtains along the sides conceal the wings.
As a magical structure, the stage has the structure trait.
All the stage’s set dressing is illusory and disappears if
taken more than 20 feet from the stage. The costumes are
physical but with illusory embellishments that fade at the
same range, revealing only plain, white smocks.
THE STRUCTURE TRAIT
An item with the structure trait creates a magical building
or other structure when activated. The item must be
activated on a plot of land free of other structures.
The structure adapts to the natural terrain, adopting
the structural requirements for being built there. The
structure adjusts around small features such as ponds or
spires of rock, but it can’t be created on water or other
nonsolid surfaces. If activated on snow, sand dunes, or
other soft surfaces with a solid surface underneath, the
structure’s foundation (if any) reaches the solid ground. If
an item with this trait is activated on a solid but unstable
surface, such as a swamp or an area plagued by tremors,
roll a DC 3 flat check each day; on a failure, the structure
begins to sink or collapse.
The structure doesn’t harm creatures within the area
when it appears, and it can’t be created within a crowd or
in a densely populated area. Any creature inadvertently
caught inside the structure when the item is activated
ends up unharmed inside the complete structure and
always has a clear path of escape. A creature inside the
structure when the activation ends isn’t harmed, and it
lands harmlessly on the ground if it was on an upper level
of the structure.
Core Rulebook
596
