•	 Friendly: Has a good attitude toward you, but won’t
necessarily stick their neck out to help you.
•	 Indifferent: Doesn’t care about you either way. (Most
NPCs start out indifferent.)
•	 Unfriendly: Dislikes you and doesn’t want to help you.
•	 Hostile: Actively works against you—and might attack
you just because of their dislike.
No one can ever change the attitude of a player character
with these skills. You can roleplay interactions with
player characters, and even use Diplomacy results if the
player wants a mechanical sense of how convincing or
charming a character is, but players make the ultimate
decisions about how their characters respond.
REQUEST [one-action]
AUDITORY
CONCENTRATE
LINGUISTIC
MENTAL
You can make a request of a creature that’s friendly or helpful
to you. You must couch the request in terms that the target
would accept given their current attitude toward you. The
GM sets the DC based on the difficulty of the request. Some
requests are unsavory or impossible, and even a helpful NPC
would never agree to them.
Critical Success The target agrees to your request without
qualifications.
Success The target agrees to your request, but they might
demand added provisions or alterations to the request.
Failure The target refuses the request, though they might
propose an alternative that is less extreme.
Critical Failure Not only does the target refuse the request,
but their attitude toward you decreases by one step due to
the temerity of the request.
Intimidation (Cha)
You bend others to your will using threats.
COERCE
AUDITORY
CONCENTRATE
EMOTION
EXPLORATION
LINGUISTIC
MENTAL
With threats either veiled or overt, you attempt to bully a
creature into doing what you want. You must spend at least 1
minute of conversation with a creature you can see and that
can either see or sense you. At the end of the conversation,
attempt an Intimidation check against the target’s Will DC,
modified by any circumstances the GM determines. The
attitudes referenced in the effects below are summarized in
the Changing Attitudes sidebar on page 246 and described in
full in the Conditions Appendix, starting on page 618.
Critical Success The target gives you the information you
seek or agrees to follow your directives so long as they
aren’t likely to harm the target in any way. The target
continues to comply for an amount of time determined by
the GM but not exceeding 1 day, at which point the target
becomes unfriendly (if they weren’t already unfriendly
or hostile). However, the target is too scared of you to
retaliate—at least in the short term.
Success As critical success, but once the target becomes
unfriendly, they might decide to act against you—for
example, by reporting you to the authorities or assisting
your enemies.
Failure The target doesn’t do what you say, and if they were
not already unfriendly or hostile, they become unfriendly.
Critical Failure The target refuses to comply, becomes hostile
if they weren’t already, and can’t be Coerced by you for at
least 1 week.
DEMORALIZE [one-action]
AUDITORY
CONCENTRATE
EMOTION
MENTAL
With a sudden shout, a well-timed taunt, or a cutting put-
down, you can shake an enemy’s resolve. Choose a creature
within 30 feet of you who you’re aware of. Attempt an
Intimidation check against that target’s Will DC. If the target
does not understand the language you are speaking, you’re
not speaking a language, or they can’t hear you, you take a
–4 circumstance penalty to the check. Regardless of your
result, the target is temporarily immune to your attempts to
Demoralize it for 10 minutes.
Critical Success The target becomes frightened 2.
Success The target becomes frightened 1.
Lore (Int)
You have specialized information on a narrow topic.
Lore features many subcategories. You might have
Military Lore, Sailing Lore, Vampire Lore, or any similar
subcategory of the skill. Each subcategory counts as its
own skill, so applying a skill increase to Planar Lore
wouldn’t increase your proficiency with Sailing Lore,
for example.
You gain a specific subcategory of the Lore skill from
your background. The GM determines what other
subcategories they’ll allow as Lore skills, though these
categories are always less broad than any of the other
skills that allow you to Recall Knowledge, and they
should never be able to fully or mainly take the place
of another skill’s Recall Knowledge action. For instance,
Magic Lore wouldn’t enable you to recall the same
breadth of knowledge covered by Arcana, Adventuring
Lore wouldn’t simply give you all the information an
adventurer needs, and Planar Lore would not be sufficient
to gain all the information spread across various skills
and subcategories such as Heaven Lore.
If you have multiple subcategories of Lore that could
apply to a check or that would overlap with another skill
in the circumstances, you can use the skill with the better
skill modifier or the one you would prefer to use. If there’s
any doubt whether a Lore skill applies to a specific topic
or action, the GM decides whether it can be used or not.
Even if you’re untrained in Lore, you can use it to
Recall Knowledge (page 238).
•	 Recall Knowledge about the subject of your Lore
skill’s subcategory.
4
Skills
247
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Skills
Feats
Equipment
Spells
The Age of
Lost OMENS
Playing the
Game
Game
mastering
Crafting
& Treasure
Appendix
