Held Items
These items need to be held to use them. Weapons, wands,
and staves follow special rules and have their own sections.
BAG OF HOLDING
ITEM 4+
CONJURATION
 EXTRADIMENSIONAL
 MAGICAL
Usage held in 2 hands; Bulk 1
Though it appears to be a cloth sack decorated with panels
of richly colored silk or stylish embroidery, a bag of holding
opens into an extradimensional space larger than its outside
dimensions. The Bulk held inside the bag doesn’t change the
Bulk of the bag of holding itself. The amount of Bulk the bag’s
extradimensional space can hold depends on its type.
You can Interact with the bag of holding to put items in or
remove them just like a mundane sack. Though the bag can
hold a great amount of material, an object still needs to be able
to fit through the opening of the sack to be stored inside.
If the bag is overloaded or broken, it ruptures and is
ruined, causing the items inside to be lost forever. If it’s
turned inside out, the items inside spill out unharmed,
but the bag must be put right before
it can be used again. A living creature
placed inside the bag has enough air for
10 minutes before it begins to suffocate,
and it can attempt to Escape against a DC of 13. An
item inside the bag provides no benefits unless it’s
retrieved first. An item in the bag can’t be detected
by magic that detects only things on the same plane.
Type I; Level 4; Price 75 gp; Capacity 25 Bulk
Type II; Level 7; Price 300 gp; Capacity 50 Bulk
Type III; Level 11; Price 1,200 gp; Capacity 100 Bulk
Type IV; Level 13; Price 2,400 gp; Capacity 150 Bulk
BOTTLED AIR
ITEM 7
AIR
 CONJURATION
 MAGICAL
Price 320 gp
Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk L
Appearing to be an ordinary corked glass
bottle, this item contains a limitless supply of
fresh air. You must uncork the bottle with an
Interact action before you can activate it.
Activate [one-action] Interact; Effect You draw a
breath of air from the bottle. This allows you to
breathe even in an airless or toxic environment. Air doesn’t
escape the mouth of the bottle, so leaving the open bottle in
an airless environment doesn’t change the environment.
BROOM OF FLYING
ITEM 12
MAGICAL
 TRANSMUTATION
Price 1,900 gp
Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk 1
This broom has a tenuous connection to gravity, and it tends to
drift even while stowed. You can ride on the broom using one
hand to guide it, and the broom can carry up to one passenger
in addition to you. The broom moves at a fly Speed of 20 feet.
The broom can carry only so much, taking a –10‑foot penalty
to its Speed if laden with more than 20 Bulk, and crashing to
the ground if it carries more than 30 Bulk.
Activate [two-actions] command, Interact; Effect You name
a destination on the same plane, and the broom
speeds toward it at a fly Speed of 40 feet. You must
either clutch the broom with two hands in order to
ride it, or you need to release the broom to send it
off with no rider. If you don’t have a good idea of the
location, layout, and general direction of the destination,
or if your named destination is on another plane, the
broom wanders aimlessly, circling back to its starting
location after 30 minutes.
If the broom carries a rider, this activation lasts until
4 hours pass (typically 16 miles of travel), the broom
reaches its destination, or you Dismiss the activation.
If the broom doesn’t have a rider, the activation lasts
until the broom reaches its destination. When the
activation ends, the broom floats to the ground and
can’t be activated again for 1 hour.
CHIME OF OPENING
ITEM 6
UNCOMMON
 EVOCATION
 MAGICAL
Price 235 gp
Usage held in 2 hands; Bulk L
This hollow mithral tube is about a foot long and bears
engravings reminiscent of open locks and broken chains.
The chime can be activated 10 times before it cracks and
becomes useless.
Activate [one-action] Interact; Effect You aim the chime at a
container, door, or lock you want to open and strike the
chime. The chime sends out magical vibrations that
attempt a Thievery check against the lock’s DC, with
a Thievery bonus of +13. This targets only one lock
or binding at a time, so you might need to activate
the chime multiple times to open a target with
several forms of protection.
CRYSTAL BALL
ITEM 14+
UNCOMMON
 DIVINATION
 MAGICAL
 SCRYING
Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk L
This polished crystal sphere enhances scrying magic. Any
visual information received through a spell with the scrying
trait that was cast by the crystal ball appears within the
sphere, and any auditory information sounds out from the
surface of the sphere. When you cast a scrying spell by any
other means while holding the sphere, you can relay any
information you receive in the same way, allowing others to
see or hear the target.
The base version of a crystal ball is a sphere of clear quartz,
but other versions are made of different stones.
Activate 1 minute (command, envision, Interact); Frequency
once per hour; Effect The crystal ball casts clairvoyance to
your specifications.
Activate 10 minutes (command, envision, Interact);
Frequency twice per day; Effect The crystal ball casts a DC 33
scrying spell to your specifications.
Core Rulebook
572
