position of one creature or object. Choose one target creature
or object in the area to be tracked. It becomes the sensor for
the spell. Up to five willing creatures of your choice in the
area can see a ghostly image of this creature or object when
it’s out of their sight. They can perceive the creature or object
perfectly, allowing them to ignore the concealed or invisible
condition, though physical barriers still provide cover.
The tracking creatures can see the tracked creature or
object through all barriers other than lead or running water,
which block their vision. Distance doesn’t matter, though the
creature or object might move so far away it becomes too
small to perceive. The tracking creatures don’t see any of the
environment around the target, though they do see any gear a
creature is wearing or holding, and they can tell if it removes
objects from its person.
If the target to be tracked is willing, the duration is 1 hour. If
you try to track an unwilling creature, the target must attempt
a Will save.
Critical Success The creature or object is unaffected.
Success As described, and the duration is 1 minute.
Failure As described, and the duration is 1 hour.
UNSEEN SERVANT
SPELL 1
CONJURATION
Traditions arcane, occult
Cast [three-actions] material, somatic, verbal
Range 60 feet
Duration sustained
You summon an unseen servant (see the sidebar), which
you can command as part of Sustaining the Spell. It serves
you until its Hit Points are reduced to 0, at which point the
spell ends, or until you stop Sustaining the Spell. The unseen
servant gains the summoned trait.
UNSEEN SERVANT
Use this stat block for an unseen servant.
UNSEEN SERVANT
 CREATURE –1
MEDIUM
MINDLESS
Perception +0; darkvision
Languages — (understands its creator)
Skills Stealth +8
Str –4, Dex +2, Con +0, Int –5, Wis +0, Cha +0
Invisible An unseen servant is invisible, though it
normally doesn’t Sneak, so it is usually only hidden.
AC 13; Fort +0, Ref +4, Will +0
HP 4; Immunities disease, mental, non-magical attacks,
paralysis, poison, precision, unconscious; Resistances
all damage 5 (except force or ghost touch)
Speed fly 30 feet
Force Body An unseen servant’s physical body is made
of force. It can’t use attack actions. It can move and
use Interact actions to do things such as fetch objects,
open unstuck or unlocked doors, hold chairs, and
clean. It can’t pass through solid objects.
VAMPIRIC EXSANGUINATION
SPELL 6
DEATH
NECROMANCY
NEGATIVE
Traditions arcane, divine, occult
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal
Area 30-foot cone
Saving Throw basic Fortitude
You draw in the blood and life force of other creatures through
your outstretched arms. You deal 12d6 negative damage to
living creatures in the area.
You gain temporary Hit Points equal to half the damage
a single creature takes from this spell; calculate these
temporary Hit Points using the creature that took the most
damage. You lose any remaining temporary Hit Points after
1 minute.
Heightened (+1) The damage increases by 2d6.
VAMPIRIC TOUCH
SPELL 3
DEATH
NECROMANCY
NEGATIVE
Traditions arcane, divine, occult
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal
Range touch; Targets 1 living creature
Saving Throw basic Fortitude
Your touch leeches the lifeblood out of a target to empower
yourself. You deal 6d6 negative damage to the target. You gain
temporary Hit Points equal to half the negative damage the
target takes (after applying resistances and the like). You lose
any remaining temporary Hit Points after 1 minute.
Heightened (+1) The damage increases by 2d6.
VEIL
SPELL 4
ILLUSION
VISUAL
Traditions arcane, occult
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal
Range 30 feet; Targets up to 10 creatures
Duration 1 hour
You disguise the targets as other creatures of the same
body shape and roughly similar height (within 6 inches) and
weight (within 50 pounds). The disguise can hide the targets’
identities or let them appear to be of another ancestry, but
it’s not precise enough to impersonate specific individuals. The
spell doesn’t change voice, scent, or mannerisms. You choose
the disguise for each target; for example, you could make one
target appear to be a dwarf and another an elf.
Casting veil counts as setting up a disguise for the purpose
of the Impersonate action. It allows the target to ignore any
circumstance penalties they might take for being disguised as
dissimilar creatures, and it gives the targets a +4 status bonus
to Deception checks to prevent others from seeing through
their disguises, and add their level even if untrained. You can
Dismiss any or all of these disguises.
Heightened (5th) The spell also disguises the targets’ voices
and scents; it gains the auditory trait.
Heightened (7th) The targets can appear as any creature of the
same size, even specific individuals. You must have seen an
individual to reproduce their appearance. The spell also disguises
the targets’ voices and scents; it gains the auditory trait.
Core Rulebook
380
