damage roll, and again you apply only the greatest penalty
of a specific type but apply all untyped penalties together.
Use the formulas below.
Melee damage roll = damage die of weapon or
unarmed attack + Strength modifier + bonuses +
penalties
Ranged damage roll = damage die of weapon +
Strength modifier for thrown weapons + bonuses
+ penalties
Spell (and similar effects) damage roll = damage
die of the effect + bonuses + penalties
Once your damage die is rolled, and you’ve applied any
modifiers, bonuses, and penalties, move on to Step 2. Though
sometimes there are special considerations, described below.
Increasing Damage
In some cases, you increase the number of dice you roll
when making weapon damage rolls. Magic weapons
etched with the striking rune can add one or more weapon
damage dice to your damage roll. These extra dice are the
same die size as the weapon’s damage die. At certain levels,
most characters gain the ability to deal extra damage from
the weapon specialization class feature.
Persistent Damage
Persistent damage is a condition that causes damage to recur
beyond the original effect. Unlike with normal damage,
when you are subject to persistent damage, you don’t take
it right away. Instead, you take the specified damage at the
end of your turns, after which you attempt a DC 15 flat
check to see if you recover from the persistent damage.
See the Conditions Appendix on pages 618–623 for the
complete rules regarding the persistent damage condition.
Doubling and Halving Damage
Sometimes you’ll need to halve or double an amount of
damage, such as when the outcome of your Strike is a
critical hit, or when you succeed at a basic Reflex save
against a spell. When this happens, you roll the damage
normally, adding all the normal modifiers, bonuses,
and penalties. Then you double or halve the amount as
appropriate (rounding down if you halved it). The GM
might allow you to roll the dice twice and double the
modifiers, bonuses, and penalties instead of doubling
the entire result, but this usually works best for single-
target attacks or spells at low levels when you have a
small number of damage dice to roll. Benefits you gain
specifically from a critical hit, like the flaming weapon
rune’s persistent fire damage or the extra damage die
from the fatal weapon trait, aren’t doubled.
Step 2: Determine The Damage Type
Once you’ve calculated how much damage you deal,
you’ll need to determine the damage type. There are many
types of damage and sometimes certain types are applied
in different ways. The smack of a club deals bludgeoning
damage. The stab of a spear deals piercing damage. The
staccato crack of a lightning bolt spell deals electricity
damage. Sometimes you might apply precision damage,
dealing more damage for hitting a creature in a vulnerable
spot or when the target is somehow vulnerable. The
damage types are described on page 452.
Damage Types and Traits
When an attack deals a type of damage, the attack action
gains that trait. For example, the Strikes and attack
actions you use wielding a sword when its flaming rune is
active gain the fire trait, since the rune gives the weapon
the ability to deal fire damage.
Step 3: Apply the Target’s Immunities,
Weaknesses, and Resistances
Defenses against certain types of damage or effects are
called immunities or resistances, while vulnerabilities are
called weaknesses. Apply immunities first, then weaknesses,
and resistances third. Immunity, weakness, or resistance to
an alignment applies only to damage of that type, not to
damage from an attacking creature of that alignment.
Immunity
When you have immunity to a specific type of damage, you
ignore all damage of that type. If you have immunity to a
specific condition or type of effect, you can’t be affected by
that condition or any effect of that type. If you have immunity
to effects with a certain trait (such as death effects, poison,
or disease) you are unaffected by any effect with that trait.
Often, an effect can be both a trait and a damage type (this is
especially true in the case of energy damage types). In these
cases, the immunity applies to the entire effect, not just the
damage. You can still be targeted by an ability with an effect
you are immune to; you just don’t apply the effect. However,
some complex effects might have parts that affect you even
if you’re immune to one of the effect’s traits; for instance, a
spell that deals both fire and acid damage can still deal acid
damage to you even if you’re immune to fire.
Immunity to critical hits works a little differently. When
a creature immune to critical hits is critically hit by a Strike
or other attack that deals damage, it takes normal damage
instead of double damage. This does not make it immune
to any other critical success effects of other actions that
have the attack trait (such as Grapple and Shove).
Another exception is immunity to nonlethal attacks. If
you are immune to nonlethal attacks, you are immune to
all damage from attacks with the nonlethal trait, no matter
what other type the damage has. For instance, a stone
golem has immunity to nonlethal attacks. This means
that no matter how hard you hit it with your fist, you’re
451
9
PLAYING THE GAME
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Skills
Feats
Equipment
Spells
The Age of
Lost OMENS
Playing the
Game
Game
mastering
Crafting
& Treasure
Appendix
