ITEM NAME
ITEM [LEVEL]
TRAITS
Price This entry lists the item’s Price. An item that has multiple
types includes Price for each type in its entry.
Ammunition Magic ammunition lists the types of ammunition
available for that kind of item.
Usage This entry describes whether the item is held, worn, or
affixed to or etched onto another item; Bulk The item’s Bulk
is listed here (the rules for Bulk appear on page 271). Runes
don’t have a Bulk entry.
Activate The number of actions needed to Activate the Item
appear here, followed by the components in parentheses.
You can find activation rules on page 532. This entry
appears here for consumables and lower in the stat block
for permanent items that can be activated. This section
might also have Frequency, Trigger, or Requirements
entries as necessary.
Onset This entry appears if the item’s effect is delayed, which
most often occurs with alchemical poisons. The onset is
the amount of time that elapses between when a character
Activates an Item and any effect occurs.
The section after the line describes the item and its constant
abilities. If the item can be activated and doesn’t have an
Activate entry above, that entry appears here in a paragraph
beginning with “Activate.”
Type If multiple types of the item exist, entries here indicate
the name of each type, its level, its Price, and any other
relevant details or alterations from the above description.
Craft Requirements An item that has special requirements to
be Crafted details those requirements here.
Level
An item’s level indicates what level of adventurer the item
is best suited for. There’s no limit to the items a character
can use, though. A 3rd-level character who finds an
item of 4th level or higher while adventuring can use it
normally. Likewise, they can purchase the item if they can
find it for sale and can afford it.
When making items, a character’s level must be equal
to or higher than the item’s level in order to Craft it. In
addition to anything listed in the Craft Requirements
entry in the item’s stat block, the crafter must have the
appropriate skill proficiencies and feats, as well as the
item’s formula; see the Craft activity on page 244 for
more information about these requirements.
Multiple Types
If multiple types of an item exist, the title line gives the
minimum level followed by a plus symbol (“+”). The
description includes information on the base version of the
item, and the Type entries at the bottom of the stat block
lists the specifics for each version, including the level, Price,
and any modified or added abilities of the different types.
For some items, the types listed are upgrades to the base
item. For other items, such as aeon stones and wondrous
figurines, each type is distinct from the others.
like the Sustain a Spell action (found on page 304). If an
item’s description states that you can sustain the effect, that
effect lasts until the end of your turn in the round after you
Activated the Item. You can use a Sustain an Activation
action on that turn to extend the duration.
[one-action] SUSTAIN AN ACTIVATION
CONCENTRATE
Requirements You have at least one magic item activation that
you can sustain, and you are not fatigued.
Choose one magic item activation with a sustained duration
you have in effect. The duration of that activation continues
until the end of your next turn. Some activations may have
slightly different or expanded effects if you sustain them.
Sustaining an Activation for more than 10 minutes (100
rounds) ends the activation and makes you fatigued unless
the item’s description states a different maximum duration
(such as “up to 1 minute” or “up to 1 hour”).
If your Sustain an Activation action is disrupted, the item’s
effect immediately ends.
Dismissing Activations
Some item effects can be dismissed, ending the duration
early due to you or the target taking action. Dismissing
an activation requires using the Dismiss action.
[one-action] DISMISS
CONCENTRATE
You end one spell effect or magic item effect. This must be an
effect that you are allowed to dismiss, as defined by the spell
or item. Dismissal might end the effect entirely, or might end
it just for a certain target or targets, depending on the spell
or item.
Reading Items
Hundreds of items lie ahead. Each item is presented in a
stat block, much like spells or feats. The example below
shows the structure of an item stat block and gives a
brief description of each entry. Entries appear only when
applicable, so not all items will have every entry described
here. Detailed rules governing aspects of the stat block
specific to items appear after the stat block.
ITEM RARITY
Like many other aspects of the rules, items have rarities.
Player characters might find uncommon magic items for
sale, but only infrequently and often by private sellers
or in clandestine markets. Their formulas are often
guarded and not readily available. Unless the GM decides
otherwise, a character cannot purchase rare items, and
their formulas are lost to time.
Rarities for uncommon and rare treasures are indicated
by the first trait in the stat block. Unique items are indicated
in the same way, though there are none in this book.
Core Rulebook
534
