If you attempt to Strike a creature, the creature remains flat-
footed against that attack, and you then become observed. If
you do anything else, you become observed just before you
act unless the GM determines otherwise. The GM might allow
you to perform a particularly unobtrusive action without
being noticed, possibly requiring another Stealth check.
If a creature uses Seek to make you observed by it, you
must successfully Hide to become hidden from it again.
SNEAK [one-action]
MOVE
SECRET
You can attempt to move to another place while becoming
or staying undetected. Stride up to half your Speed. (You can
use Sneak while Burrowing, Climbing, Flying, or Swimming
instead of Striding if you have the corresponding movement
type; you must move at half that Speed.)
If you’re undetected by a creature and it’s impossible for that
creature to observe you (for a typical creature, this includes
when you’re invisible, the observer is blinded, or you’re in
darkness and the creature can’t see in darkness), for any critical
failure you roll on a check to Sneak, you get a failure instead.
You also continue to be undetected if you lose cover or greater
cover against or are no longer concealed from such a creature.
At the end of your movement, the GM rolls your Stealth
check in secret and compares the result to the Perception
DC of each creature you were hidden from or undetected by
at the start of your movement. If you have cover or greater
cover from the creature throughout your Stride, you gain the
+2 circumstance bonus from cover (or +4 from greater cover)
to your Stealth check. Because you’re moving, the bonus
increase from Taking Cover doesn’t apply. You don’t get to roll
against a creature if, at the end of your movement, you neither
are concealed from it nor have cover or greater cover against
it. You automatically become observed by such a creature.
Success You’re undetected by the creature during your movement
and remain undetected by the creature at the end of it.
You become observed as soon as you do anything other
than Hide, Sneak, or Step. If you attempt to Strike a creature,
the creature remains flat-footed against that attack, and you
then become observed. If you do anything else, you become
observed just before you act unless the GM determines
otherwise. The GM might allow you to perform a particularly
unobtrusive action without being noticed, possibly requiring
another Stealth check. If you speak or make a deliberate
loud noise, you become hidden instead of undetected.
If a creature uses Seek and you become hidden to it as a
result, you must Sneak if you want to become undetected
by that creature again.
Failure A telltale sound or other sign gives your position away,
though you still remain unseen. You’re hidden from the
creature throughout your movement and remain so.
Critical Failure You’re spotted! You’re observed by the creature
throughout your movement and remain so. If you’re
invisible and were hidden from the creature, instead of
being observed you’re hidden throughout your movement
and remain so.
Survival (Wis)
You are adept at living in the wilderness, foraging for
food and building shelter, and with training you discover
the secrets of tracking and hiding your trail. Even if you’re
untrained, you can still use Survival to Subsist (page 240).
•	 Subsist in the wild by foraging for food and
building shelter.
SENSE DIRECTION
EXPLORATION
SECRET
Using the stars, the position of the sun, traits of the
geography or flora, or the behavior of fauna, you can stay
oriented in the wild. Typically, you attempt a Survival check
only once per day, but some environments or changes might
necessitate rolling more often. The GM determines the DC
and how long this activity takes (usually just a minute or so).
More unusual locales or those you’re unfamiliar with might
require you to have a minimum proficiency rank to Sense
Direction. Without a compass, you take a –2 item penalty to
checks to Sense Direction.
Critical Success You get an excellent sense of where you are.
If you are in an environment with cardinal directions, you
know them exactly.
Success You gain enough orientation to avoid becoming
hopelessly lost. If you are in an environment with cardinal
directions, you have a sense of those directions.
Sense Direction Tasks
Untrained determine a cardinal direction using the sun
Trained find an overgrown path in a forest
Expert navigate a hedge maze
Master navigate a byzantine labyrinth or relatively
featureless desert
Legendary navigate an ever-changing dream realm
Survival Trained Actions
COVER TRACKS
CONCENTRATE
EXPLORATION
MOVE
You cover your tracks, moving up to half your travel Speed,
using the rules on page 479). You don’t need to attempt a
Survival check to cover your tracks, but anyone tracking you
must succeed at a Survival check against your Survival DC if it
is higher than the normal DC to Track.
In some cases, you might Cover Tracks in an encounter. In
this case, Cover Tracks is a single action and doesn’t have the
exploration trait.
TRACK
CONCENTRATE
EXPLORATION
MOVE
You follow tracks, moving at up to half your travel Speed, using
the rules on page 479). After a successful check to Track, you
can continue following the tracks at half your Speed without
attempting additional checks for up to 1 hour. In some cases,
you might Track in an encounter. In this case, Track is a single
action and doesn’t have the exploration trait, but you might
Core Rulebook
252
