Format of Rules Elements
Throughout this rulebook, you will see formatting standards that might look a
bit unusual at first. Specifically, the game’s rules are set apart in this text using
specialized capitalization and italicization. These standards are in place to make
this book rules elements easier to recognize.
The names of specific statistics, skills, feats, actions, and some other mechanical
elements in Pathfinder are capitalized. This way, when you see the statement “a Strike
targets Armor Class,” you know that both Strike and Armor Class are referring
to rules.
If a word or a phrase is italicized, it is describing a spell or a magic item. This way,
when you see the statement “the door is sealed by lock,” you know that in this case
the word denotes the lock spell, rather than a physical item.
Pathfinder also uses many terms that are typically expressed as abbreviations, like
AC for Armor Class, DC for Difficulty Class, and HP for Hit Points. If you’re ever
confused about a game term or an abbreviation, you can always turn to the Glossary
and Index, beginning on page 628, and look it up.
Understanding Actions
Characters and their adversaries affect the world of Pathfinder by using actions
and producing effects. This is especially the case during encounters, when every
action counts. When you use an action, you generate an effect. This effect might
be automatic, but sometimes actions necessitate that you roll a die, and the effect is
based on what you rolled.
Throughout this book, you will see special icons to denote actions.
[one-action] Single Actions
Single actions use this symbol: [one-action]. They’re the simplest, most common type of action.
You can use three single actions on your turn in an encounter, in any order you see fit.
[[reaction] ]Reactions
Reactions use this symbol: [reaction]. These actions can be used even when it’s not your
turn. You get only one reaction per encounter round, and you can use it only when
its specific trigger is fulfilled. Often, the trigger is another creature’s action.
[free-action] ]Free Actions
Free actions use this symbol: [free-action]. Free actions don’t require you to spend any of
your three single actions or your reaction. A free action might have a trigger like
a reaction does. If so, you can use it just like a reaction—even if it’s not your turn.
However, you can use only one free action per trigger, so if you have multiple free
actions with the same trigger, you have to decide which to use. If a free action
doesn’t have a trigger, you use it like a single action, just without spending any of
your actions for the turn.
Activities
Activities are special tasks that you complete by spending one or more of your actions
together. Usually, an activity uses two or more actions and lets you do more than a
single action would allow. You have to spend all the actions an activity requires for
its effects to happen. Spellcasting is one of the most common activities, as most spells
take more than a single action to cast.
Activities that use two actions use this symbol: [two-actions]. Activities that use three
actions use this symbol: [three-actions]. A few special activities, such as spells you can cast in
an instant, can be performed by spending a free action or a reaction.
All tasks that take longer than a turn are activities. If an activity is meant to
be done during exploration, it has the exploration trait. An activity that takes a
day or more of commitment and that can be done only during downtime has the
downtime trait.
[one-action]
Single Action
[two-actions]
Two-Action
Activity
[three-actions]
Three-Action
Activity
[[reaction]
Reaction
[free-action]
Free Action
Introduction
1
17
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Skills
Feats
Equipment
Spells
The Age of
Lost OMENS
Playing the
Game
Game
mastering
Crafting
& Treasure
Appendix
