Gear Statistics
Tables 6–9 and 6–10 list Price and Bulk entries for a
wide variety of gear. Any item with a number after it
in parentheses indicates that the item’s Price is for the
indicated quantity, though the Bulk entry for such an
item is the value for only one such item. All items in this
chapter are level 0 unless the item name is followed by a
higher item level in parentheses.
Hands
This lists how many hands it takes to use
the item effectively. Most items that require
two hands can be carried in only one hand,
but you must spend an Interact action
to change your grip in order to use
the item. The GM may determine
that an item is too big to carry in one hand (or
even two hands, for particularly large items).
Gear
Your character needs all sorts of items both while exploring and in downtime, ranging
from rations to climbing gear to fancy clothing, depending on the situation.
Adventuring Gear
These items follow special rules or require more detail.
Adventurer’s Pack: This item is the starter kit for an
adventurer, containing the essential items for exploration
and survival. The Bulk value is for the entire pack together,
but see the descriptions of individual items as necessary.
The pack contains the following items: backpack
(containing the other goods), bedroll, two belt pouches,
10 pieces of chalk, flint and steel, 50 feet of rope, 2 weeks’
rations, soap, 5 torches, and a waterskin.
Alchemist’s Tools: These beakers and chemicals can be
used to set up a mobile alchemical laboratory. Expanded
alchemist’s tools give a +1 item bonus to Crafting checks
to create alchemical items. When you carry the tools from
place to place, you keep many of the components handy
on your person, in pockets or bandoliers.
Artisan’s Tools: You need these tools to create items
from raw materials with the Craft skill. Sterling artisan’s
tools give you a +1 item bonus to the check. Different
sets are needed for different work, as determined by
the GM; for example, blacksmith’s tools differ from
woodworker’s tools.
Backpack: A backpack holds up to 4 Bulk of items. If
you’re carrying or stowing the pack rather than wearing
it on your back, its bulk is light instead of negligible.
Bandolier: A bandolier holds up to eight items of light
Bulk within easy reach and is usually used for alchemical
items or potions. If you are carrying or stowing a bandolier
rather than wearing it around your chest, it has light Bulk
instead of negligible. A bandolier can be dedicated to a full
set of tools, such as healer’s tools, allowing you to draw the
tools as part of the action that requires them.
Basic Crafter’s Book: This book contains the formulas
(page 293) for Crafting the common items in this chapter.
Belt Pouch: A belt pouch holds up to four items of
light Bulk.
Caltrops: These four-pronged metal spikes can cause
damage to a creature’s feet. You can scatter caltrops in an
empty square adjacent to you with an
Interact action. The first creature that
moves into that square must succeed
at a DC 14 Acrobatics check or take
1d4 piercing damage and 1 persistent
bleed damage. A creature taking
persistent bleed damage from
caltrops takes a –5-foot penalty
to its Speed. Spending an Interact action to
pluck the caltrops free reduces the DC to
stop the bleeding. Once a creature takes
damage from caltrops, enough caltrops
are ruined that other creatures moving into
the square are safe.
Deployed caltrops can be salvaged and
reused if no creatures took damage from them. Otherwise,
enough caltrops are ruined that they can’t be salvaged.
Candle: A lit candle sheds dim light in a 10-foot radius.
Chest: A wooden chest can hold up to 8 Bulk of items.
Climbing Kit: This satchel includes 50 feet of rope,
pulleys, a dozen pitons, a hammer, a grappling hook, and
one set of crampons. Climbing kits allow you to attach
yourself to the wall you’re Climbing, moving half as quickly
as usual (minimum 5 feet) but letting you attempt a DC 5
flat check whenever you critically fail to prevent a fall. You
gain a +1 item bonus to Athletics checks to Climb while
using an extreme climbing kit. A single kit has only enough
materials for one climber; each climber needs their own kit.
Clothing: Ordinary clothing is functional with basic
tailoring, such as peasant garb, monk’s robes, or work clothes.
Explorer’s clothing is sturdy enough that it can be
reinforced to protect you, even though it isn’t a suit of
armor. It comes in many forms, though the most common
sorts look like clerical vestments, monk’s garments,
or wizard’s robes, as members of all three classes are
likely to avoid wearing armor. For more information on
explorer’s clothing, see pages 275–276.
Fine clothing, suitable for a noble or royal, is made with
expensive fabrics, precious metals, and intricate patterns.
You gain a +1 item bonus to checks to Make an Impression
on nobility or other upper-class folk while wearing high-
fashion fine clothing.
EQUIPMENT
6
287
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Skills
Feats
Equipment
Spells
The Age of
Lost OMENS
Playing the
Game
Game
mastering
Crafting
& Treasure
Appendix
