The target weapon becomes translucent and ghostly, and it
can affect material and incorporeal creatures and objects. It
can be wielded by a corporeal or incorporeal creature and
gains the effects of the ghost touch property rune.
GHOULISH CRAVINGS
SPELL 2
ATTACK
DISEASE
EVIL
NECROMANCY
Traditions divine, occult
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal
Range touch; Targets 1 creature
Saving Throw Fortitude
You touch the target to afflict it with ghoul fever, infesting it
with hunger and a steadily decreasing connection to positive
energy; the target must attempt a Fortitude save.
Critical Success The target is unaffected.
Success The target is afflicted with ghoul fever at stage 1.
Failure The target is afflicted with ghoul fever at stage 2.
Critical Failure The target is afflicted with ghoul fever at stage 3.
Ghoul Fever (disease); Level 3; Stage 1 carrier with no ill
effects (1 day); Stage 2 3d8 negative damage and the
creature regains half as many Hit Points from all healing
(1 day); Stage 3 as stage 2 (1 day); Stage 4 3d8 negative
damage and the creature gains no benefit from healing (1
day); Stage 5 as stage 4 (1 day); Stage 6 the creature dies
and rises as a ghoul at the next midnight
GLIBNESS
SPELL 4
UNCOMMON
ENCHANTMENT
MENTAL
Traditions occult
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal
Duration 10 minutes
Falsehoods pass your lips as smoothly as silk. You gain a +4
status bonus to Deception checks to Lie and against Perception
checks to discern if you are telling the truth, and you add your
level even if you’re untrained. If the implausibility of your lies
prompts a circumstance penalty or a DC increase, reduce that
penalty or increase by half.
GLITTERDUST
SPELL 2
EVOCATION
Traditions arcane, primal
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal
Range 120 feet; Area 10-foot burst
Saving Throw Reflex
Creatures in the area are outlined by glittering dust. Each
creature must attempt a Reflex save. If a creature has its
invisibility negated by this spell, it is concealed instead of
invisible. This applies both if the creature was already invisible
and if it benefits from new invisibility effects before the end of
the invisibility negation effect from this spell.
Critical Success The target is unaffected.
Success The target’s invisibility is negated for 2 rounds.
Failure The target is dazzled for 1 minute and its invisibility is
negated for 1 minute.
Critical Failure The target is blinded for 1 round and dazzled
for 10 minutes. Its invisibility is negated for 10 minutes.
GLOBE OF INVULNERABILITY
SPELL 4
UNCOMMON
ABJURATION
Traditions arcane, divine, occult
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal
Area 10-foot burst centered on one corner of your space
Duration 10 minutes
You create an immobile globe around yourself that attempts
to counteract any spell from outside the globe whose area
or targets enter into the globe, as if the globe were a dispel
magic spell 1 level lower than its actual spell level. If the
counteract attempt succeeds, it prevents only the portion
of the spell that would have entered the globe (so if the
spell also has targets outside the globe, or part of its area
is beyond the globe, those targets or that area is affected
normally). You must form the sphere in an unbroken open
space, so its edges don’t pass through any creatures or
objects, or the spell is lost (though creatures can enter the
globe after the spell is cast).
GLYPH OF WARDING
SPELL 3
ABJURATION
Traditions arcane, divine, occult, primal
Cast 10 minutes (material, somatic, verbal)
Range touch; Targets 1 container or a 10-foot-by-10-foot area
Duration unlimited
You craft a trap by binding a hostile spell into a symbol. While
Casting this Spell, you also Cast a Spell of a lower spell level
to store in the glyph. The stored spell must take 3 actions or
fewer to cast, have a hostile effect, and target one creature
or have an area. You can set a password, a trigger, or both
for the glyph. Any creature that moves, opens, or touches the
target container or enters the target area that doesn’t speak
the password or that matches the trigger activates the glyph,
releasing the harmful spell within.
Once a spell is stored in the glyph, the glyph gains all the
traits of that spell. If the stored spell targets one or more
creatures, it targets the creature that set off the glyph. If it
has an area, that area is centered on the creature that set off
the glyph. Glyph of warding’s duration ends when the glyph
is triggered. The glyph counts as a magical trap, using your
spell DC for both the Perception check to notice it and the
Thievery check to disable it; both checks require the creature
attempting them to be trained in order to succeed.
You can Dismiss glyph of warding. The maximum number
of glyphs of warding you can have active at a time is equal to
your spellcasting ability modifier.
GOBLIN POX
SPELL 1
ATTACK
DISEASE
NECROMANCY
Traditions arcane, primal
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal
Range touch; Targets 1 creature
Saving Throw Fortitude
Your touch afflicts the target with goblin pox, an irritating
allergenic rash. The target must attempt a Fortitude save.
Critical Success The target is unaffected.
341
7
SPELLS
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Skills
Feats
Equipment
Spells
The Age of
Lost OMENS
Playing the
Game
Game
mastering
Crafting
& Treasure
Appendix
