VITAL BEACON
SPELL 4
HEALING
NECROMANCY
POSITIVE
Traditions divine, primal
Cast 1 minute (somatic, verbal)
Duration until your next daily preparations
Vitality radiates outward from you, allowing others to
supplicate and receive healing. Once per round, either you
or an ally can use an Interact action to supplicate and lay
hands upon you to regain Hit Points. Each time the beacon
heals someone, it decreases in strength. It restores 4d10 Hit
Points to the first creature, 4d8 Hit Points to the second, 4d6
Hit Points to the third, and 4d4 Hit Points to the fourth, after
which the spell ends. You can have only one vital beacon
active at a time.
Heightened (+1) The beacon restores one additional die of Hit
Points each time it heals, using the same die size as the others
for that step.
VOLCANIC ERUPTION
SPELL 7
EVOCATION
FIRE
Traditions primal
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal
Range 120 feet; Area 5-foot radius, 80-foot-tall cylinder
Saving Throw Reflex
The ground opens up, spraying a column of lava high into the
air in a vertical cylinder, dealing 14d6 fire damage to creatures
in the area. The lava rapidly cools and encases creatures in
the area. A creature encased in rock is clumsy 1 and takes
a –10‑foot status penalty to its Speeds. All normal terrain
is difficult terrain to a flying creature, and such creatures
immediately descend 20 feet the moment they’re encased,
but they don’t take damage from this fall. A creature encased
in rock can attempt to Escape against your spell DC to end the
effect. Otherwise, the creature remains encased until it takes
a total of 50 damage, freeing it from the rock.
Additionally, creatures in the area and those within 5 feet of
the lava column automatically take 3d6 fire damage from the
intense heat, regardless of the results of their saving throws.
Critical Success The creature is unaffected.
Success The creature takes half damage.
Failure The creature takes full damage and is encased.
Critical Failure The creature takes double damage and is
encased.
Heightened (+1) The damage in the area increases by 2d6, and
the damage from the intense heat increases by 1d6.
WAIL OF THE BANSHEE
SPELL 9
AUDITORY
DEATH
NECROMANCY
NEGATIVE
Traditions divine, occult
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal
Area 40-foot emanation; Targets any number of creatures
Saving Throw Fortitude
Your scream chills the souls of enemies that hear it. Each
living enemy in the area takes 8d10 negative damage and
must attempt a Fortitude save.
Critical Success The target is unaffected.
Success The target takes full damage.
Failure The target takes full damage and is drained 1d4.
Critical Failure The target takes double damage and is drained 4.
WALL OF FIRE
SPELL 4
EVOCATION
FIRE
Traditions arcane, primal
Cast [three-actions] material, somatic, verbal
Range 120 feet
Duration 1 minute
You raise a blazing wall that burns creatures passing through
it. You create either a 5-foot-thick wall of flame in a straight
line up to 60 feet long and 10 feet high, or a 5-foot-thick,
10-foot-radius ring of flame with the same height. The wall
stands vertically in either form; if you wish, the wall can be of
a shorter length or height. Everything on each side of the wall
is concealed from creatures on the opposite side. Any creature
that crosses the wall or is occupying the wall’s area at the
start of its turn takes 4d6 fire damage.
Heightened (+1) The fire damage increases by 1d6.
WALL OF FORCE
SPELL 6
EVOCATION
FORCE
Traditions arcane, occult
Cast [three-actions] material, somatic, verbal
Range 30 feet
Duration 1 minute
You form an invisible wall of pure magical force up to 50
feet long and up to 20 feet high. The wall has no discernible
thickness. You must create the wall in an unbroken open space
so its edges don’t pass through any creatures or objects, or
the spell is lost. The wall has AC 10, Hardness 30, and 60 Hit
Points, and it’s immune to critical hits and precision damage.
The wall blocks physical effects from passing through it, and
because it’s made of force, it blocks incorporeal and ethereal
creatures as well. Teleportation effects can pass through the
barrier, as can visual effects (since the wall is invisible).
Wall of force is immune to counteracting effects of its
level or lower, but the wall is automatically destroyed by
a disintegrate spell of any level or by contact with a rod of
cancellation or sphere of annihilation.
Heightened (+2) The Hit Points of the wall increases by 20.
WALL OF ICE
SPELL 5
COLD
EVOCATION
WATER
Traditions arcane, primal
Cast [three-actions] material, somatic, verbal
Range 120 feet
Duration 1 minute
You sculpt a barrier of ice that blocks sight and, once shattered,
freezes foes. You create either a 1-foot-thick wall of ice in a
straight line up to 60 feet long and 10 feet high (the wall doesn’t
have to be vertical, but it must be anchored on both sides to a
solid surface) or a 1-foot-thick, 10-foot radius hemisphere of ice.
The ice that makes up the wall is opaque. If you wish, the wall
can be of a smaller length, height, or radius. You must create the
Core Rulebook
382
