Reading Rules
This book contains hundreds of rules elements that
give characters new and interesting ways to respond to
situations in the game. All characters can use the basic
actions found in Chapter 9, but an individual character
often has special rules that allow them to do things most
other characters can’t. Most of these options are feats,
which are gained by making certain choices at character
creation or when a character advances in level.
Regardless of the game mechanic they convey, rules
elements are always presented in the form of a stat block,
a summary of the rules necessary to bring the monster,
character, item, or other rules element to life during play.
Where appropriate, stat blocks are introduced with an
explanation of their format. For example, the Ancestry
section of Chapter 2 contains rules for each of the game’s
six core ancestries, and an explanation of these rules
appears at the beginning of that chapter.
The general format for stat blocks is shown below. Entries
are omitted from a stat block when they don’t apply, so not
all rule elements have all of the entries given below. Actions,
reactions, and free actions each have the corresponding icon
next to their name to indicate their type. An activity that
can be completed in a single turn has a symbol indicating
how many actions are needed to complete it; activities that
take longer to perform omit these icons. If a character must
attain a certain level before accessing an ability, that level
is indicated to the right of the stat block’s name. Rules also
often have traits associated with them (traits appear in the
Glossary and Index).
Spells, alchemical items, and magic items use a similar
format, but their stat blocks contain a number of unique
elements (see Chapter 7 for more on reading spells, and
Chapter 11 for more on alchemical and magic items).
ACTION OR FEAT NAME [one-action]
LEVEL
TRAITS
Prerequisites Any minimum ability scores, feats, proficiency
ranks, or other prerequisites you must have before you can
access this rule element are listed here. Feats also have a level
prerequisite, which appears above.
Frequency This is the limit on how many times you can use
the ability within a given time.
Trigger Reactions and some free actions have triggers that
must be met before they can be used.
Requirements Sometimes you must have a certain item or be
in a certain circumstance to use an ability. If so, it’s listed
in this section.
This section describes the effects or benefits of a rule element.
If the rule is an action, it explains what the effect is or what
you must roll to determine the effect. If it’s a feat that modifies
an existing action or grants a constant effect, the benefit is
explained here.
Special Any special qualities of the rule are explained in
this section. Usually this section appears in feats you can select
more than once, explaining what happens when you do.
Core Rulebook
18
