THE WORLD AS A
PARTICIPANT
Aside from characters and
monsters, the world of
Pathfinder itself can be a
force at the table and in
the narrative. While the
presence of the larger world
can sometimes be an obvious
hazard, such as when a
powerful storm lashes the
countryside, the world can
also act in subtle, small ways.
Traps and treasures are just
as important in many tales
as cunning beasts. To help
you understand these game
elements, many of them use
the same characteristics as
characters and monsters. For
example, most environmental
hazards have a level, which
indicates how dangerous they
are, and the level of a magic
item gives you a sense of its
overall power and impact on
a story.
used to calculate most of their other statistics. There are six ability scores in the game.
Strength represents a character’s physical might, while Dexterity represents agility
and the ability to avoid danger. Constitution indicates a character’s overall health and
well-being. Intelligence represents raw knowledge and problem-solving ability, while
Wisdom measures a character’s insight and the ability to evaluate a situation. Finally,
Charisma indicates charm, persuasiveness, and force of personality. Ability scores for
ordinary folk range from as low as 3 to as high as 18, with 10 representing average
human capabilities. High-level characters can have ability scores that range much
higher than 18.
An ability score that’s above the average increases your chance of success at tasks
related to the ability score, while those below the average decrease your chance. This
adjustment is called an ability modifier.
Your player character is also defined by some key choices you make. The first choice
is a PC’s ancestry, representing the character’s parents and heritage, such as human,
elf, or goblin. Next up is the PC’s background, which describes their upbringing, from
lowly street urchin to wealthy noble. Finally, and most importantly, a PC’s class defines
the majority of their aptitudes and abilities, like a wizard’s command of powerful
arcane spells or a druid’s power to transform into a fearsome beast!
In addition to these key choices, player characters also have a number of feats—
individual abilities selected during character creation and as the character increases
in level. Every feat has a type to denote where its explanation can be found (for
example, elf feats can be found in the elf ancestry) and its theme (wizard feats, for
example, grant abilities that deal with spells). Finally, characters have skills that
measure their ability to hide, swim, bargain, and perform other common tasks.
Creating a Narrative
Characters and their choices create the story of Pathfinder, but how they interact
with each other and the world around them is governed by rules. So, while you might
decide that your character undertakes an epic journey to overcome terrifying foes
and make the world a safer place, your character’s chance of success is determined
by their abilities, the choices you make, and the roll of the dice.
The GM determines the premise and background of most adventures, although
character histories and personalities certainly play a part. Once a game
session begins, the players take turns describing what their
characters attempt to do, while the GM determines
the outcome, with the table working together
toward a specific goal. The GM also describes
the environment, other characters’ actions,
and events. For example, the GM might
announce that the characters’ hometown
is under attack by marauding trolls. The
characters might track the trolls to a nearby
swamp—only to discover that the trolls were driven
from their swamp by a fearsome dragon! The
PCs then have the choice of taking on an
entire tribe of trolls, the dragon, or
both. Whatever they decide, their
success depends on their choices and
the die rolls they make during play.
A single narrative—including the
setup, plot, and conclusion—is called
an adventure. A series of adventures
creates an even larger narrative, called
a campaign. An adventure might take
several sessions to complete, whereas a
campaign might take months or even years!
Introduction
1
9
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Skills
Feats
Equipment
Spells
The Age of
Lost OMENS
Playing the
Game
Game
mastering
Crafting
& Treasure
Appendix
