In most cases, creatures have a chance to detect your
deception only if they use the Seek action to attempt
Perception checks against your Deception DC. If you attempt
to directly interact with someone while disguised, the GM
rolls a secret Deception check for you against that creature’s
Perception DC instead. If you’re disguised as a specific
individual, the GM might give creatures you interact with a
circumstance bonus based on how well they know the person
you’re imitating, or the GM might roll a secret Deception
check even if you aren’t directly interacting with others.
Success You trick the creature into thinking you’re the person
you’re disguised as. You might have to attempt a new check
if your behavior changes.
Failure The creature can tell you’re not who you claim to be.
Critical Failure The creature can tell you’re not who you claim
to be, and it recognizes you if it would know you without
a disguise.
LIE
AUDITORY
CONCENTRATE
LINGUISTIC
MENTAL
SECRET
You try to fool someone with an untruth. Doing so takes at
least 1 round, or longer if the lie is elaborate. You roll a single
Deception check and compare it against the Perception DC of
every creature you are trying to fool. The GM might give them
a circumstance bonus based on the situation and the nature of
the lie you are trying to tell. Elaborate or highly unbelievable
lies are much harder to get a creature to believe than simpler
and more believable lies, and some lies are so big that it’s
impossible to get anyone to believe them.
At the GM’s discretion, if a creature initially believes your
lie, it might attempt a Perception check later to Sense Motive
against your Deception DC to realize it’s a lie. This usually
happens if the creature discovers enough evidence to counter
your statements.
Success The target believes your lie.
Failure The target doesn’t believe your lie and gains a +4
circumstance bonus against your attempts to Lie for the
duration of your conversation. The target is also more likely
to be suspicious of you in the future.
Deception Trained Action
FEINT [one-action]
MENTAL
Requirements You are within melee reach of the opponent you
attempt to Feint.
With a misleading flourish, you leave an opponent unprepared
for your real attack. Attempt a Deception check against that
opponent’s Perception DC.
Critical Success You throw your enemy’s defenses against
you entirely off. The target is flat-footed against melee
attacks that you attempt against it until the end of your
next turn.
Success Your foe is fooled, but only momentarily. The target is
flat-footed against the next melee attack that you attempt
against it before the end of your current turn.
Critical Failure Your feint backfires. You are flat-footed against
melee attacks the target attempts against you until the end
of your next turn.
Diplomacy (Cha)
You influence others through negotiation and flattery.
GATHER INFORMATION
EXPLORATION
SECRET
You canvass local markets, taverns, and gathering places in
an attempt to learn about a specific individual or topic. The
GM determines the DC of the check and the amount of time it
takes (typically 2 hours, but sometimes more), along with any
benefit you might be able to gain by spending coin on bribes,
drinks, or gifts.
Success You collect information about the individual or topic.
The GM determines the specifics.
Critical Failure You collect incorrect information about the
individual or topic.
Sample Gather Information Tasks
Untrained talk of the town
Trained common rumor
Expert obscure rumor, poorly guarded secret
Master well-guarded or esoteric information
Legendary information known only to an incredibly
select few, or only to extraordinary beings
MAKE AN IMPRESSION
AUDITORY
CONCENTRATE
EXPLORATION
LINGUISTIC
MENTAL
With at least 1 minute of conversation, during which you engage
in charismatic overtures, flattery, and other acts of goodwill,
you seek to make a good impression on someone to make them
temporarily agreeable. At the end of the conversation, attempt
a Diplomacy check against the Will DC of one target, modified
by any circumstances the GM sees fit. Good impressions (or bad
impressions, on a critical failure) last for only the current social
interaction unless the GM decides otherwise.
Critical Success The target’s attitude toward you improves by
two steps.
Success The target’s attitude toward you improves by one step.
Critical Failure The target’s attitude toward you decreases by
one step.
Changing Attitudes
Your influence on NPCs is measured with a set of attitudes
that reflect how they view your character. These are
only a brief summary of a creature’s disposition. The
GM will supply additional nuance based on the history
and beliefs of the characters you’re interacting with, and
their attitudes can change in accordance with the story.
The attitudes are detailed in the Conditions Appendix and
are summarized here.
•	 Helpful: Willing to help you and responds favorably to
your requests.
Core Rulebook
246
