SAMPLE FIGHTER
Special If you have Felling Strike, you can spend 3 actions
to make a Sudden Leap and use Felling Strike instead of a
normal Strike.
10TH LEVEL
AGILE GRACE 
FEAT 10
FIGHTER
Your graceful moves with agile weapons are beyond compare.
Your multiple attack penalty with agile weapons and agile
unarmed attacks becomes –3 for your second attack and –6
for subsequent attacks (rather than –4 and –8).
CERTAIN STRIKE [one-action]
FEAT 10
FIGHTER
PRESS
Even when you don’t hit squarely, you can still score a glancing
blow. Make a melee Strike. It gains the following failure effect.
Failure Your attack deals any damage it would have dealt on
a hit, excluding all damage dice. (This removes damage dice
from weapon runes, spells, and special abilities, in addition
to weapon damage dice.)
COMBAT REFLEXES
FEAT 10
FIGHTER
You are particularly swift at punishing foes who leave you
openings. At the start of each of your turns when you regain
your actions, you gain an additional reaction that can be used
only to make an Attack of Opportunity.
DEBILITATING SHOT [two-actions]
FEAT 10
FIGHTER
FLOURISH
Aiming for a weak point, you impede your foe with a precise
shot. Make a ranged weapon Strike. If it hits and deals damage,
the target is slowed 1 until the end of its next turn.
DISARMING TWIST [one-action]
FEAT 10
FIGHTER
PRESS
Prerequisites trained in Athletics
Requirements You are wielding only a single one-handed
melee weapon and have your other hand or hands free.
After your initial attack redirects your foe’s defenses, your
follow-up wrests their weapon from their grasp. Make a
melee Strike with the required weapon. In addition to its
other effects, this Strike gains the success and critical success
effects of the Disarm action. The Strike also has the following
failure effect.
Failure The target is flat-footed until the end of your current
turn.
DISRUPTIVE STANCE [one-action]
FEAT 10
FIGHTER
STANCE
The slightest distraction can provoke your wrath, and you’re
prepared to foil enemies’ actions. As long as you are in this
stance, you can use Attack of Opportunity when a creature
within your reach uses a concentrate action, in addition to
manipulate and move actions. Furthermore, you disrupt a
DUELIST
With one hand free and a blade in the others,
you are adept at foiling your opponents by way
of misdirection, disarming strikes, and by always
being ready for their clumsy attacks.
ABILITY SCORES
Prioritize Strength. Dexterity and Wisdom help with
survivability and versatility, and Constitution grants
some extra toughness.
SKILLS
Acrobatics, Athletics, Deception, Medicine
STARTING FEAT
Snagging Strike
HIGHER-LEVEL FEATS
Dueling Parry (2nd), Guardian’s Deflection (6th), Dueling
Riposte (8th), Dueling Dance (12th), Stance Savant (14th)
Core Rulebook
150
