Critical Failure The creature wastes the action and can’t attempt
to attack the target for the rest of sanctuary’s duration.
SCINTILLATING PATTERN
SPELL 8
ILLUSION
INCAPACITATION
VISUAL
Traditions arcane, occult
Cast [two-actions] material, somatic
Range 120 feet; Area 20-foot burst
Saving Throw Will; Duration sustained up to 1 minute
A field of cascading, ever-changing colors manifests in the air.
Creatures are dazzled while inside the pattern, as are those
within 20 feet of the pattern’s area. A creature must attempt
a Will save if it is inside the pattern when you cast it, enters
the pattern, ends its turn within the pattern, or uses a Seek or
Interact action on the pattern. A creature currently affected by
the pattern doesn’t need to attempt new saves.
Success The creature is unaffected.
Failure The creature is confused for 1d4 rounds.
Critical Failure The creature is stunned for 1d4 rounds. After
the stunned condition ends, the creature is confused for the
remaining duration of the spell.
SCRYING
SPELL 6
UNCOMMON
DIVINATION
SCRYING
Traditions arcane, occult
Cast 10 minutes (material, somatic, verbal)
Range planetary; Targets 1 creature
Saving Throw Will; Duration sustained up to 10 minutes
You magically spy on a creature of your choice. Scrying works
like clairvoyance (page 324), except that the image you receive
is less precise, insufficient for teleport and similar spells.
Instead of creating an eye in a set location within 500 feet, you
instead create an eye that manifests just above the target. You
can choose a target either by name or by touching one of its
possessions or a piece of its body. If you haven’t met the target
in person, scrying’s DC is 2 lower, and if you are unaware of
the target’s identity (perhaps because you found an unknown
creature’s fang at a crime scene), the DC is instead 10 lower.
The effect of scrying depends on the target’s Will save.
Critical Success The spell fails and the target is temporarily
immune for 1 week. The target also gains a glimpse of you
and learns its rough distance and direction from you.
Success The spell fails and the target is temporarily immune
for 1 day.
Failure The spell succeeds.
Critical Failure The spell succeeds, and the eye follows the
target if it moves, traveling up to 60 feet per round.
SEARING LIGHT
SPELL 3
ATTACK
EVOCATION
FIRE
GOOD
LIGHT
Traditions divine, primal
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal
Range 120 feet; Targets 1 creature
You shoot a blazing ray of light tinged with holy energy. Make a
ranged spell attack. The ray deals 5d6 fire damage. If the target is
a fiend or undead, you deal an extra 5d6 good damage.
Critical Success The target takes double fire damage, as well
as double good damage if a fiend or undead.
Success The target takes full damage
If the light passes through an area of magical darkness or
targets a creature affected by magical darkness, searing light
attempts to counteract the darkness. If you need to determine
whether the light passes through an area of darkness, draw a
line between yourself and the spell’s target
Heightened (+1) The fire damage increases by 2d6, and the
good damage against fiends and undead increases by 2d6.
SECRET PAGE
SPELL 3
ILLUSION
VISUAL
Traditions arcane, occult
Cast 1 minute (material, somatic, verbal)
Range touch; Targets 1 page up to 3 square feet in size
Duration unlimited
You change the target’s text to different text entirely. If the text
is a spellbook or a scroll, you can change it to show a spell you
know of secret page’s level or lower. The replacement spell cannot
be cast or used to prepare a spell. You can also transform the text
into some other text you have written or have access to. You can
specify a password that allows a creature touching the page to
change the text back and forth. You must choose the replacement
text and the password, if any, when you Cast the Spell.
SEE INVISIBILITY
SPELL 2
DIVINATION
REVELATION
Traditions arcane, divine, occult
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal
Duration 10 minutes
You can see invisible creatures and objects. They appear to
you as translucent shapes, and they are concealed to you.
Heightened (5th) The spell has a duration of 8 hours.
SENDING
SPELL 5
DIVINATION
MENTAL
Traditions arcane, divine, occult
Cast [three-actions] material, somatic, verbal
Range planetary; Targets 1 creature with whom you are familiar
You send the creature a mental message of 25 words or fewer,
and it can respond immediately with its own message of 25
words or fewer.
SHADOW BLAST
SPELL 5
EVOCATION
SHADOW
Traditions divine, occult
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal
Range varies; Area varies
Saving Throw basic Reflex or Will (target’s choice)
You shape the quasi-real substance of the Shadow Plane into
a blast. Choose acid, bludgeoning, cold, electricity, fire, force,
piercing, slashing, or sonic damage, and choose a 30-foot cone,
a 15-foot burst within 120 feet, or a 50-foot line. The blast deals
5d8 damage of the type you chose to each creature in the area.
Heightened (+1) The damage increases by 1d8.
367
7
SPELLS
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Skills
Feats
Equipment
Spells
The Age of
Lost OMENS
Playing the
Game
Game
mastering
Crafting
& Treasure
Appendix
