Druidic Order
Upon becoming a druid, you align yourself with a druidic
order, which grants you a class feat, an order spell
(see below), and an additional trained skill tied to your
order. While you’ll always be a member of your initial
order, it’s not unheard of for a druid to request to study
with other orders in search of greater understanding of
the natural world, and PC druids are among the most
likely to blend the powers of different orders.
Order spells are a type of focus spell. It costs 1 Focus
Point to cast a focus spell, and you start with a focus
pool of 1 Focus Point. You refill your focus pool during
your daily preparations, and you can regain 1 Focus
Point by spending 10 minutes using the Refocus activity
to commune with local nature spirits or otherwise tend to
the wilderness in a way befitting your order.
Focus spells are automatically heightened to half your
level rounded up, much like cantrips. Focus spells don’t
require spell slots to cast, and you can’t cast them using
spell slots. Selecting druid feats can give you more focus
spells and increase the size of your focus pool, though
your focus pool can never hold more than 3 points.
The full rules for focus spells appear in Chapter 7 on
page 300.
Animal
You have a strong connection to beasts, and you are allied
with a beast companion. You are trained in Athletics.
You also gain the Animal Companion druid feat. You
gain the heal animal order spell. Committing wanton
cruelty to animals or killing animals unnecessarily
is anathema to your order. (This doesn’t prevent you
from defending yourself against animals or killing them
cleanly for food.)
Leaf
You revere plants and the bounty of nature, acting as
both a gardener and warden for the wilderness, teaching
sustainable techniques to communities, and helping
areas regrow after disasters or negligent humanoid
expansion. You are trained in Diplomacy. You also gain
the Leshy Familiar druid feat. You gain the goodberry
order spell, and you increase the number of Focus
Points in your focus pool by 1. Committing wanton
cruelty to plants or killing plants unnecessarily is
anathema to your order. (This doesn’t
prevent you from defending yourself
against plants or harvesting them
when necessary for survival.)
131
3
CLASSES
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Skills
Feats
Equipment
Spells
The Age of
Lost OMENS
Playing the
Game
Game
mastering
Crafting
& Treasure
Appendix
