wall in an unbroken open space so its edges don’t pass through
any creatures or objects, or the spell is lost.
Each 10-foot-by-10-foot section of the wall has AC 10,
Hardness 10, and 40 Hit Points, and it’s immune to critical
hits, cold damage, and precision damage. A section also has
weakness to fire 15; a section of the wall destroyed by fire
melts, evaporating into water and steam. A section destroyed
by means other than fire leaves behind a chilling mass of ice
that is difficult terrain and deals 2d6 cold damage to any
creature passing through it.
Heightened (+2) The Hit Points of each section of the wall
increase by 10, and the cold damage dealt to creatures
crossing a destroyed section increases by 1d6.
WALL OF STONE
SPELL 5
CONJURATION
EARTH
Traditions arcane, primal
Cast [three-actions] material, somatic, verbal
Range 120 feet
You shape a wall of solid stone. You create a 1-inch-thick wall
of stone up to 120 feet long, and 20 feet high. You can shape
the wall’s path, placing each 5 feet of the wall on the border
between squares. The wall doesn’t need to stand vertically, so
you can use it to form a bridge or set of stairs, for example. You
must conjure the wall in an unbroken open space so its edges
don’t pass through any creatures or objects, or the spell is lost.
Each 5-foot-by-5-foot section of the wall has AC 10, Hardness
14, and 50 Hit Points, and it’s immune to critical hits and
precision damage. A destroyed section of the wall can be moved
through, but the rubble created from it is difficult terrain.
Heightened (+2) The Hit Points of each section of the wall
increase by 15.
WALL OF THORNS
SPELL 3
CONJURATION
PLANT
Traditions primal
Cast [three-actions] material, somatic, verbal
Range 60 feet
Duration 1 minute
Over the course of a minute, you cause a thick wall of thorny
brambles to grow from the ground. You create a 5-foot-
thick wall of brambles and thorns in a straight line up to
60 feet long and 10 feet high. You must create the wall in
an unbroken open space so its edges don’t pass through
any creatures or objects, or the spell is lost. The wall stands
vertically. If you wish, the wall can be of a shorter length or
height. Everything on each side of the wall has cover from
creatures on the opposite side, and the wall’s spaces are
difficult terrain. For every move action a creature uses to
enter at least one of the wall’s spaces, that creature takes
3d4 piercing damage.
Each 5-foot-by-5-foot section of the wall has AC 10, Hardness
10, and 20 Hit Points. It’s immune to critical hits and precision
damage. A destroyed section can be moved through freely.
Heightened (+1) The Hit Points of each section of the wall
increase by 5, and the piercing damage increases by 1d4.
WALL OF WIND
SPELL 3
AIR
EVOCATION
Traditions arcane, primal
Cast [three-actions] material, somatic, verbal
Range 120 feet
Duration 1 minute
You create a barrier of gusting winds that hinders anything
moving through it. The wall of swirling winds is 5 feet
thick, 60 feet long, and 30 feet high. The wall stands
vertically, but you can shape its path. Though the wall of
wind distorts the air, it does not hamper sight. The wall has
the following effects.
•	 Ammunition from physical ranged attacks—such
as arrows, bolts, sling bullets, and other objects of
similar size—can’t pass through the wall. Attacks with
bigger ranged weapons, such as javelins, take a –2
circumstance penalty to their attack rolls if their paths
pass through the wall. Massive ranged weapons and
spell effects that don’t create physical objects pass
through the wall with no penalty.
•	 The wall is difficult terrain to creatures attempting to
move overland through it. Gases, including creatures
in gaseous form, can’t pass through the wall.
•	 A creature that attempts to fly through the wall using a
move action must attempt a Fortitude save.
Critical Success The creature can move through the wall
normally this turn.
Success The flying creature can move through the wall this
turn, but the wall is difficult terrain.
Failure The wall stops the movement of the flying creature, and
any remaining movement from its current action is wasted.
Critical Failure As failure, and the creature is pushed 10 feet
away from the wall.
WANDERER’S GUIDE
SPELL 3
DIVINATION
Tradition divine, occult
Cast 1 minute (material, somatic, verbal)
Duration until your next daily preparations
You call upon the beyond to guide your route. When you
Cast this Spell, choose a destination; you receive an inspired
route to that destination, allowing you and allies who travel
overland with you to reduce the movement penalty from
difficult terrain by half for the duration, as long as you don’t
deviate from the inspired route. This doesn’t have any effect
on movement during encounters. If you use this ability again
before the duration is over, this effect ends and is replaced by
that of the new route.
WARP MIND
SPELL 7
EMOTION
ENCHANTMENT
INCAPACITATION
MENTAL
Traditions arcane, occult
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal
Range 120 feet; Targets 1 creature
Saving Throw Will
You scramble a creature’s mental faculties and sensory input.
383
7
SPELLS
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Skills
Feats
Equipment
Spells
The Age of
Lost OMENS
Playing the
Game
Game
mastering
Crafting
& Treasure
Appendix
