you automatically identify increases to 4 if you’re an expert, 6
if you’re a master, and 10 if you’re legendary. The GM rolls a
secret Arcana, Nature, Occultism, or Religion check, whichever
corresponds to the tradition of the spell being cast. If you’re
not trained in the skill, you can’t get a result better than failure.
Critical Success You correctly recognize the spell and gain a +1
circumstance bonus to your saving throw or your AC against it.
Success You correctly recognize the spell.
Failure You fail to recognize the spell.
Critical Failure You misidentify the spell as another spell
entirely, of the GM’s choice.
RIDE
FEAT 1
GENERAL
When you Command an Animal you’re mounted on to take a
move action (such as Stride), you automatically succeed instead
of needing to attempt a check. Any animal you’re mounted on
acts on your turn, like a minion. If you Mount an animal in the
middle of an encounter, it skips its next turn and then acts on
your next turn. Page 249 has more on Command an Animal.
ROBUST RECOVERY
FEAT 2
GENERAL
SKILL
Prerequisites expert in Medicine
You learned folk medicine to help recover from diseases and
poison, and using it diligently has made you especially resilient.
When you Treat a Disease or a Poison, or someone else uses
one of these actions on you, increase the circumstance bonus
granted on a success to +4, and if the result of the patient’s
saving throw is a success, the patient gets a critical success.
SCARE TO DEATH [one-action]
FEAT 15
DEATH
EMOTION
FEAR
GENERAL
INCAPACITATION
SKILL
Prerequisites legendary in Intimidation
You can frighten foes so much, they might die. Attempt an
Intimidation check against the Will DC of a living creature within
30 feet of you that you sense or observe and who can sense or
observe you. If the target can’t hear you or doesn’t understand
the language you are speaking, you take a –4 circumstance
penalty. The creature is temporarily immune for 1 minute.
Critical Success The target must succeed at a Fortitude save
against your Intimidation DC or die. If the target succeeds
at its save, it becomes frightened 2 and is fleeing for 1
round; it suffers no effect on a critical success.
Success The target becomes frightened 2.
Failure The target becomes frightened 1.
Critical Failure The target is unaffected.
SHAMELESS REQUEST
FEAT 7
GENERAL
SKILL
Requirements master in Diplomacy
You can downplay the consequences or outrageousness of
your requests using sheer brazenness and charm. When you
Request something, you reduce any DC increases for making an
outrageous request by 2, and if you roll a critical failure for your
Request, you get a failure instead. While this means you can
never cause your target to reduce their attitude toward you by
making a Request, they eventually tire of requests, even though
they still have a positive attitude toward you.
SHIELD BLOCK [reaction]
FEAT 1
GENERAL
Trigger While you have your shield raised, you would take
damage from a physical attack.
You snap your shield in place to ward off a blow. Your shield
prevents you from taking an amount of damage up to the
shield’s Hardness. You and the shield each take any remaining
damage, possibly breaking or destroying the shield.
SIGN LANGUAGE
FEAT 1
GENERAL
SKILL
Prerequisites trained in Society
You learn the sign languages associated with the languages
you know, allowing you to sign and understand signs. Sign
languages typically require both hands to convey more complex
concepts, and they are visual rather than auditory.
Sign language is difficult to understand during combat due
to the level of attention needed, unlike basic gestures like
pointing at a foe to suggest a target. Sign language is hard to
use in areas of low visibility, just like speech is difficult in a
noisy environment.
SKILL TRAINING
FEAT 1
GENERAL
SKILL
Prerequisites Intelligence 12
You become trained in the skill of your choice.
Special You can select this feat multiple times, choosing a
new skill to become trained in each time.
SLIPPERY SECRETS
FEAT 7
GENERAL
SKILL
Prerequisites master in Deception
You elude and evade attempts to uncover your true nature or
intentions. When a spell or magical effect tries to read your mind,
detect whether you are lying, or reveal your alignment, you can
attempt a Deception check against the spell or effect’s DC. If you
succeed, the effect reveals nothing.
SNARE CRAFTING
FEAT 1
GENERAL
SKILL
Prerequisites trained in Crafting
You can use the Craft activity to create snares, using the
rules from page 244. When you select this feat, you add the
formulas for four common snares to your formula book.
SPECIALTY CRAFTING
FEAT 1
GENERAL
SKILL
Prerequisites trained in Crafting
Your training focused on Crafting one particular kind of item.
Select one of the specialties listed on page 267; you gain a +1
circumstance bonus to Crafting checks to Craft items of that
type. If you are a master in Crafting, this bonus increases to +2.
Core Rulebook
266
