Gnome
Long ago, early gnome ancestors emigrated from the First World, realm of the fey. While
it’s unclear why the first gnomes wandered to Golarion, this lineage manifests in modern
gnomes as bizarre reasoning, eccentricity, obsessive tendencies, and what some see as
naivete. These qualities are further reflected in their physical characteristics, such as
spindly limbs, brightly colored hair, and childlike and extremely expressive facial features
that further reflect their otherworldly origins.
Always hungry for new experiences, gnomes constantly
wander both mentally and physically, attempting to stave
off a terrible ailment that threatens all of their people.
This affliction—the Bleaching—strikes gnomes who
fail to dream, innovate, and take in new experiences,
in the gnomes’ absence of crucial magical essence
from the First World. Gnomes latch onto a source of
localized magic where they live, typically primal magic,
as befits their fey lineage, but this isn’t enough to avoid
the Bleaching unless they supplement this magic with
new experiences. The Bleaching slowly drains the
color—literally—from gnomes, and it plunges those
affected into states of deep depression that eventually
claim their lives. Very few gnomes survive
this scourge, becoming deeply morose
and wise survivors known
as bleachlings.
If you want a character with boundless enthusiasm
and an alien, fey outlook on morality and life, you should
play a gnome.
You Might...
•	 Embrace learning and hop from one area of study
to another without warning.
•	 Rush into action before fully taking stock of the
entire situation.
•	 Speak, think, and move quickly, and lose patience
with those who can’t keep up.
Others Probably...
•	 Appreciate your enthusiasm and the energy with
which you approach new situations.
•	 Struggle to understand your motivations or adapt
to your rapid changes of direction.
•	 See you as unpredictable, flighty, unreliable, or
even reckless.
Physical Description
Most gnomes stand just over 3 feet in height and weigh
little more than a human child. They exhibit a wide
range of natural skin, hair, and eye colors. For gnomes
that haven’t begun the Bleaching, nearly any hair and
eye color other than white is possible, with vibrant
colors most frequent, while skin tones span a slightly
narrower spectrum and tend toward earthy tones and
pinkish hues, though occasionally green, black, or pale
blue. Gnomes’ large eyes and dense facial muscles allow
them to be particularly expressive in their emotions.
Gnomes typically reach physical maturity at the age
of 18, though many gnomes maintain a childlike
curiosity about the world even into adulthood.
A gnome can theoretically live to any age if
she can stave off the Bleaching indefinitely,
but in practice gnomes rarely live longer than
around 400 years.
Society
While most gnomes adopt some of the cultural
practices of the region in which they live, they tend
to pick and choose, adjusting their communities to
fit their own fey logic. This often leads to majority
gnome communities eventually consisting almost entirely
Core Rulebook
42
