Heightened (8th) The item bonus to AC increases to +2, and
you gain a +2 item bonus to saving throws.
Heightened (10th) The item bonus to AC increases to +3, and
you gain a +3 item bonus to saving throws.
MAGE HAND
CANTRIP 1
CANTRIP
EVOCATION
Traditions arcane, occult
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal
Range 30 feet; Targets 1 unattended object of light Bulk or less
Duration sustained
You create a single magical hand, either invisible or ghostlike,
that grasps the target object and moves it slowly up to 20
feet. Because you’re levitating the object, you can move it in
any direction. When you Sustain the Spell, you can move the
object an additional 20 feet. If the object is in the air when the
spell ends, the object falls.
Heightened (3rd) You can target an unattended object with a
Bulk of 1 or less.
Heightened (5th) The range increases to 60 feet, and you can
target an unattended object with a Bulk of 1 or less.
Heightened (7th) The range increases to 60 feet, and you can
target an unattended object with a Bulk of 2 or less.
MAGIC AURA
SPELL 1
UNCOMMON
ILLUSION
Traditions arcane, occult
Cast 1 minute (material, somatic, verbal)
Range touch; Targets 1 object of 3 bulk or less
Duration until the next time you make your daily preparations
You alter the appearance of an item’s magic aura. You can
choose to have the target’s aura appear as that of common
magic item of twice magic aura’s level or lower, or to have it
register as being under the effects of a spell of your choice
of magic aura’s level or lower. If the target is magical, you
can instead choose to have it appear as entirely non-magical.
A caster using detect magic or study aura of an equal or
higher spell level can attempt to disbelieve the illusion from
magic aura. Magic aura doesn’t mask the aura of spells that
are 9th level or higher or of items that are 19th level or higher.
Heightened (3rd) You can target a creature instead of an
object. When you do, you can either conceal the auras of all
magic items it has or have that creature’s aura appear as if it
were under the effect of a spell you know.
MAGIC FANG
SPELL 1
TRANSMUTATION
Traditions primal
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal
Range touch; Targets 1 willing ally
Duration 1 minute
Choose one of the target’s unarmed attacks that deal one
damage die. You cause that unarmed attack to shine with
primal energy. The unarmed attack becomes a +1 striking
unarmed attack, gaining a +1 item bonus to attack rolls and
increasing the number of damage dice to two.
MAGIC MISSILE
SPELL 1
EVOCATION
FORCE
Traditions arcane, occult
Cast [one-action] to [three-actions] (somatic, verbal)
Range 120 feet; Targets 1 creature
You send a dart of force streaking toward a creature that
you can see. It automatically hits and deals 1d4+1 force
damage. For each additional action you use when Casting
the Spell, increase the number of missiles you shoot by one,
to a maximum of three missiles for 3 actions. You choose
the target for each missile individually. If you shoot more
than one missile at the same target, combine the damage
before applying bonuses or penalties to damage, resistances,
weaknesses, and so forth.
Heightened (+2) You shoot one additional missile with each
action you spend.
MAGIC MOUTH
SPELL 2
AUDITORY
ILLUSION
VISUAL
Traditions arcane, occult
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal
Range touch; Targets 1 creature or object
Duration unlimited
You specify a trigger (described on page 305) and a message
up to 25 words long. When the specified trigger occurs
within 30 feet of the target, an illusory mouth appears on
the target and speaks the message, and the magic mouth
spell ends.
MAGIC WEAPON
SPELL 1
TRANSMUTATION
Traditions arcane, divine, occult
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal
Range touch; Targets 1 non-magical weapon that is unattended
or wielded by you or a willing ally
Duration 1 minute
The weapon glimmers with magic and energy. The target
becomes a +1 striking weapon, gaining a +1 item bonus to
attack rolls and increasing the number of weapon damage
dice to two.
MAGNIFICENT MANSION
SPELL 7
UNCOMMON
CONJURATION
EXTRADIMENSIONAL
Traditions arcane, occult
Cast 1 minute (material, somatic, verbal)
Range 30 feet
Duration 24 hours
You conjure an extradimensional demiplane consisting of
a spacious dwelling with a single entrance. The entrance
connects to the plane where you Cast the Spell, appearing
anywhere within the spell’s range as a faint, shimmering,
vertical rectangle 5 feet wide and 10 feet high. You designate
who can enter when you cast the spell. Once inside, you can
shut the entrance, making it invisible. You and the creatures
you designated can reopen the door at will, just like opening
a physical door.
349
7
SPELLS
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Skills
Feats
Equipment
Spells
The Age of
Lost OMENS
Playing the
Game
Game
mastering
Crafting
& Treasure
Appendix
