SAMPLE FIGHTER
You adopt a fencing stance that improves your control over
your weapon. While you are in this stance, you gain a +1
circumstance bonus to Athletics checks to Disarm and a
+2 circumstance bonus to your Reflex DC when defending
against checks to Disarm you. In addition, you can attempt to
Disarm creatures up to two sizes larger than you.
FURIOUS FOCUS 
FEAT 6
FIGHTER
Prerequisites Power Attack
You’ve learned to maintain your balance even when swinging
furiously. When you make a Power Attack with a melee
weapon you’re wielding in two hands, it counts as one attack
toward your multiple attack penalty instead of two.
GUARDIAN’S DEFLECTION [reaction]
FEAT 6
FIGHTER
Trigger An ally within your melee reach is hit by an attack,
you can see the attacker, and the ally gaining a +2
circumstance bonus to AC would turn the critical hit
into a hit or the hit into a miss.
Requirements You are wielding a single one-handed
melee weapon and have your other hand or hands free.
You use your weapon to deflect the attack against your ally,
granting a +2 circumstance bonus to their Armor Class against
the triggering attack. This turns the triggering critical hit into
a hit, or the triggering hit into a miss.
REFLEXIVE SHIELD
FEAT 6
FIGHTER
You can use your shield to fend off the worst of area effects
and other damage. When you Raise your Shield, you gain
your shield’s circumstance bonus to Reflex saves. If you have
the Shield Block reaction, damage you take as a result of a
Reflex save can trigger that reaction, even if the damage isn’t
physical damage.
REVEALING STAB [two-actions]
FEAT 6
FIGHTER
Requirements You are wielding a melee weapon that deals
piercing damage.
You drive your piercing weapon into an imperceptible foe,
revealing its location to your allies. Make a Strike with the
required melee weapon. You don’t have to attempt a flat check
to hit a concealed creature, and you have to succeed at only a
DC 5 flat check to target a hidden creature. If you hit and deal
damage, you can drive the required weapon into a corporeal
target, revealing its current position. You Release the weapon,
and it becomes lodged in the target. If the target is concealed,
other creatures don’t need to succeed at a flat check to hit
it. If the target is hidden, other creatures have to succeed at
only a DC 5 flat check to target it. The creatures need to be
able to see your weapon to gain any of these benefits, and
the target can’t become undetected to anyone who sees your
weapon. If the target is invisible, the weapon remains visible
while lodged in it.
BULLY
Using a two-handed weapon, you push your foes
about the battlefield and deal grievous wounds. You
excel at taking down the biggest enemy standing in
your way.
ABILITY SCORES
Prioritizing Strength, Constitution, and Wisdom helps
with survivability and increases your damage, and
Dexterity allows extra maneuverability.
SKILLS
Athletics, Crafting, Intimidation, Medicine
STARTING FEAT
Power Attack
HIGHER-LEVEL FEATS
Knockdown (4th), Furious Focus (6th), Positioning Assault
(8th), Brutal Finish (12th), Savage Critical (18th)
Core Rulebook
148
