along the way. Monetary prices usually range from the cost of
a consumable item of the creature’s level for a short and simple
task to a permanent magic item of the creature’s level or more
to persuade the creature to fight alongside you. However, some
extraplanar creatures may want payments other than money,
such as permission to cast a geas on you to fulfill an unspecified
later favor or obtain ownership of your soul via an infernal
contract. If you can’t come to an agreement in a reasonable
length of time after you’ve made your case, the extraplanar
creature can return from whence it came at any time.
Critical Success You call the extraplanar creature and bind it
in the wards for up to a full day before it returns home,
potentially allowing you to negotiate a better deal by
threatening to leave it in the wards for the full day.
Success You call the extraplanar creature.
Failure You fail to call the extraplanar creature.
Critical Failure You call something dark and horrible, unbound
by your wards, and it immediately attempts to destroy you.
PLANT GROWTH
RITUAL 4
UNCOMMON
NECROMANCY
PLANT
POSITIVE
Cast 1 day; Secondary Casters 1
Primary Check Nature (expert); Secondary Checks Farming
Lore or Survival
Area 1/2-mile-radius circle centered on you
Duration 1 year
You cause the plants within the area to be healthier and more
fruitful. In addition to other benefits of healthy plants, this
increases the crop yield for farms, depending on your success.
If you cast it in the area of a blight, plant growth attempts to
counteract the blight instead of producing its usual effect.
Critical Success Double the crop yield in the area, or increase
the area to a 1-mile radius.
Success Increase the crop yield in the area by one-third.
Failure The ritual has no effect.
Critical Failure The flora in the area changes in an unanticipated
way, determined by the GM but generally as contradictory
to your true desires as possible (for instance, blighting
crops when you would prefer to enrich them).
PRIMAL CALL
RITUAL 6
UNCOMMON
ABJURATION
CONJURATION
Cast 1 day; Cost faerie circle ingredients worth a total value
of 1 gp × the spell level × the target’s level; Secondary
Casters 4
Primary Check Nature (master); Secondary Checks Crafting,
Diplomacy, Survival
Range 100 miles; Targets 1 animal, beast, fey, fungus, or plant
Duration see text
This functions as planar ally except you craft a faerie circle and
call an animal, beast, fey, fungus, or plant from within 100 miles.
RESURRECT
RITUAL 5
UNCOMMON
HEALING
NECROMANCY
Cast 1 day; Cost diamonds worth a total value of 75 gp × the
target’s level; Secondary Casters 2
Primary Check Religion (expert); Secondary Checks
Medicine, Society
Range 10 feet; Targets 1 dead creature of up to 10th level
You attempt to call forth the target’s soul and return it to
its body. This requires the target’s body to be present and
relatively intact. The target must have died within the past
year. If Pharasma has decided that the target’s time has come
or the target doesn’t wish to return, this ritual automatically
fails, but you discover this after the successful Religion check
and can end the ritual without paying the cost.
Critical Success You resurrect the target. They return to life
with full Hit Points and the same spells prepared and points
in their pools they had when they died, and still suffering
from any long-term debilitations of the old body. The target
meets an agent of their deity during the resurrection who
inspires them, granting them a +1 status bonus to attack
rolls, Perception, saving throws, and skill checks for 1
week. The target is also permanently changed in some
way by their time in the afterlife, such as gaining a slight
personality shift, a streak of white in the hair, or a strange
new birthmark.
Success As critical success, except the target returns to life
with 1 Hit Point and no spells prepared or points in any
pools, and still is affected by any long-term debilitations of
the old body. Instead of inspiring them, the character’s time
in the Boneyard has left them temporarily debilitated. The
target is clumsy 1, drained 1, and enfeebled 1 for 1 week;
these conditions can’t be removed or reduced by any means
until the week has passed.
Failure Your attempt is unsuccessful.
Critical Failure Something goes horribly wrong—an evil spirit
possesses the body, the body transforms into a special kind
of undead, or some worse fate befalls the target.
Heightened (6th) You can resurrect a target of up to 12th level,
and the base cost is 125 gp.
Heightened (7th) You can use resurrect even with only a
small portion of the body; the ritual creates a new body on a
success or critical success. The target must have died within
the past decade. The ritual requires four secondary casters,
each of whom must be at least half the target’s level. The
target can be up to 14th level, and the base cost is 200 gp.
Heightened (8th) As 7th level, but the target can be up to 16th
level and the base cost is 300 gp.
Heightened (9th) You can use resurrect even without the
body as long as you know the target’s name and have
touched a portion of its body at any time. The target must
have died within the past century, and it doesn’t gain the
negative conditions on a success. The ritual requires eight
secondary casters, each of whom must be at least half the
target’s level. The target can be up to 18th level, and the base
cost is 600 gp.
Heightened (10th) As 9th level, except it doesn’t matter how
long ago the target died. The ritual requires 16 secondary
casters, each of whom must be at least half the target’s level.
The target can be up to 20th level, and the ritual’s base cost
is 1,000 gp.
415
7
SPELLS
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Skills
Feats
Equipment
Spells
The Age of
Lost OMENS
Playing the
Game
Game
mastering
Crafting
& Treasure
Appendix
