The Game Master
While the other players create and control their characters,
the Game Master (or GM) is in charge of the story
and world. The GM describes all the situations player
characters experience in an adventure, considers how the
actions of player characters affect the story, and interprets
the rules along the way.
The GM can create a new adventure—crafting a narrative,
selecting monsters, and assigning treasure on their own—
or they can instead rely on a published adventure, using
it as a basis for the session and modifying it as needed to
accommodate their individual players and the group’s style
of play. Some even run games that combine original and
published content, mixed together to form a new narrative.
Being the GM is a challenge, requiring you to adjudicate
the rules, narrate the story, and juggle other responsibilities.
But it can also be very rewarding and worth all the work
required to run a good game. If it is your first time running
a game, remember that the only thing that matters is that
everyone has a good time, and that includes you. Everything
else will come naturally with practice and patience.
Gaming Is for All
Whether you are the GM or a player, participating in a
tabletop roleplaying game includes a social contract:
everyone has gathered together to have fun telling a story.
For many, roleplaying is a way to escape the troubles of
everyday life. Be mindful of everyone at the table and what
they want out of the game, so that everyone can have fun.
When a group gathers for the first time, they should talk
about what they hope to experience at the table, as well as
any topics they want to avoid. Everyone should understand
that elements might come up that make some players feel
uncomfortable or even unwelcome, and everyone should
agree to respect those boundaries during play. That way,
everyone can enjoy the game together.
Pathfinder is a game for everyone, regardless of their age,
gender, race or ethnicity, religion, sexual orientation, or any
other identities and life experiences. It is the responsibility
of all of the players, not just the GM, to make sure the
table is fun and welcoming to all.
Tools of Play
In addition to this book, there are a few things you will
need to play Pathfinder. These supplies can be found at
your local hobby shop or online at paizo.com.
Character Sheet: Each player will need a character sheet
to create their character and to record what happens to
that character during play. You can find a character sheet
in the back of this book and online as a free pdf.
Dice: The players and GM will need at least one set of
polyhedral dice, although most participants bring their
own. Six-sided dice are quite common, but all the dice in
the set can be found at hobby game stores or online. See
the Dice sidebar on page 7 for more on the different kinds
of dice and how they are discussed in the text.
Adventure: Every table needs an adventure to play,
whether it’s designed by the GM or found in a published
resource. You can find a variety of exciting adventures
and even entire Adventure Path campaigns at paizo.com.
Bestiary: From terrifying dragons to mischievous
gremlins, monsters are a common threat that the PCs
might face, and each type has its own statistics and
abilities. These can be found in the Pathfinder Bestiary, an
absolutely invaluable book for GMs. Monster statistics
can also be found online for free at paizo.com/prd.
Maps and Miniatures: The chaos of combat can be
difficult to imagine, so many groups use maps to represent
the battlefield. These maps are marked with a 1-inch grid,
and each square represents 5 feet in the game. Miniatures
and illustrated tokens called pawns are used to represent
the characters and the adversaries they face.
Additional Accessories: There are a number of
additional accessories you can add to your game to
enhance the experience, including tools that help you
track turns in combat, decks of cards for referencing
common rules, digital character-creation tools, and even
background music and sound-effect sets.
Basics of Play
Before creating your first character or adventure, you
should understand a number of basic concepts used in
the game. New concepts are presented in bold to make
them easy to find, but this chapter is only an introduction
to the basics of play. The complete game rules are defined
in later chapters, and the Glossary and Index in the back
of this book will help you find specific rules you need.
Defining Characters
In Pathfinder, the players take on the role of player
characters (PCs), while the Game Master portrays
nonplayer characters (NPCs) and monsters. While PCs
and NPCs are both important to the story, they serve very
different purposes in the game. PCs are the protagonists—
the narrative is about them—while NPCs and monsters
are allies, contacts, adversaries, and villains. That said,
PCs, NPCs, and monsters share several characteristics.
Level is one of the most important statistics of the game,
as it conveys the approximate power and capabilities of
every individual creature. PCs range in level from 1st, at
the start of the character’s adventuring career, to 20th,
the very height of power. As the characters overcome
challenges, defeat foes, and complete adventures, they
accumulate Experience Points (XP). Every time a character
amasses 1,000 XP, they go up a level, gaining new abilities
so they can take on even greater challenges. A 1st-level PC
might face off against a giant rat or a group of bandits, but
at 20th level, that same character might be able to bring
ruin to an entire city with a single spell.
In addition to level, characters are defined by ability
scores, which measure a character’s raw potential and are
Core Rulebook
8
