Explorer’s Clothing: Adventurers who don’t wear
armor travel in durable clothing. Though it’s not armor
and uses your unarmored defense proficiency, it still has
a Dex Cap and can grant an item bonus to AC if etched
with potency runes (as described on page 581).
Full Plate: Plate mail consists of interlocking plates
that encase nearly the entire body in a carapace of steel.
It is costly and heavy, and the wearer often requires
help to don it correctly, but it provides some of the best
defense armor can supply. A suit of this armor comes
with an undercoat of padded armor (see below) and a
pair of gauntlets (page 285).
Half Plate: Half plate consists of most of the upper body
plates used in full plate, with lighter or sparser steel plate
protection for the arms and legs. This provides some of the
protection of full plate with greater flexibility and speed.
A suit of this armor comes with an undercoat of padded
armor (see below) and a pair of gauntlets (page 285).
Hide: A mix of furs, sturdy hide, and sometimes molded
boiled leather, this armor provides protection due to its
layers of leather, though its bulkiness slows the wearer
down and decreases mobility.
Leather: A mix of flexible and molded boiled leather, a
suit of this type of armor provides some protection with
maximum flexibility.
Padded Armor: This armor is simply a layer of heavy,
quilted cloth, but it is sometimes used because it’s so
inexpensive. Padded armor is easier to damage
and destroy than other types of armor. Heavy
armor comes with a padded armor undercoat
included in its Price, though it loses the comfort
trait when worn under heavy armor. You can wear
just that padded armor undercoat to sleep in, if your
heavy armor is destroyed, or when otherwise not
wearing the full heavy armor. This allows you to
keep the armor invested and benefit from the
power of any runes on the associated heavy
armor, but no one else can wear your heavy
armor without the padded undercoat.
Scale Mail: Scale mail consists of many metal scales
sewn onto a reinforced leather backing, often in the form
of a long shirt that protects the torso, arms, and legs.
Splint Mail: This type of armor is chain mail reinforced
with flexible, interlocking metal plates, typically located
on the wearer’s torso, upper arms, and legs. A suit of
this armor comes with an undercoat of padded armor
(see above) and a pair of gauntlets (page 285).
Studded Leather: This leather armor is reinforced
with metal studs and sometimes small metal plates,
providing most of the flexibility of leather armor with
more robust protection.
DAMAGING ARMOR
Your armor’s statistics are based on the material it’s
predominantly made from. It’s not likely your armor
will take damage, as explained in Item Damage on
page 272.
Material
Hardness
HP
BT
Cloth (explorer’s clothing,
1
4
2
padded armor)
Leather (hide, leather, studded
4
16
8
leather)
Metal (breastplate, chain mail,
9
36
18
chain shirt, full plate, half plate,
scale mail, splint mail)
Core Rulebook
276
