A
APPENDIX
619
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Skills
Feats
Equipment
Spells
The Age of
Lost OMENS
Playing the
Game
Game
mastering
Crafting
& Treasure
Appendix
Dazzled
Your eyes are overstimulated. If vision is your only precise
sense, all creatures and objects are concealed from you.
Deafened
You can’t hear. You automatically critically fail Perception
checks that require you to be able to hear. You take a
–2 status penalty to Perception checks for initiative and
checks that involve sound but also rely on other senses. If
you perform an action with the auditory trait, you must
succeed at a DC 5 flat check or the action is lost; attempt
the check after spending the action but before any effects
are applied. You are immune to auditory effects.
Doomed
A powerful force has gripped your soul, calling you
closer to death. Doomed always includes a value. The
dying value at which you die is reduced by your doomed
value. If your maximum dying value is reduced to 0, you
instantly die. When you die, you’re no longer doomed.
Your doomed value decreases by 1 each time you get a
full night’s rest.
Drained
When a creature successfully drains you of blood or life
force, you become less healthy. Drained always includes
a value. You take a status penalty equal to your drained
value on Constitution-based checks, such as Fortitude
saves. You also lose a number of Hit Points equal to your
level (minimum 1) times the drained value, and your
maximum Hit Points are reduced by the same amount.
For example, if you’re hit by an effect that inflicts drained
3 and you’re a 3rd-level character, you lose 9 Hit Points
and reduce your maximum Hit Points by 9. Losing these
Hit Points doesn’t count as taking damage.
Each time you get a full night’s rest, your drained value
decreases by 1. This increases your maximum Hit Points,
but you don’t immediately recover the lost Hit Points.
Dying
You are bleeding out or otherwise at death’s door. While
you have this condition, you are unconscious. Dying always
includes a value, and if it ever reaches dying 4, you die. If
you’re dying, you must attempt a recovery check (page 459)
at the start of your turn each round to determine whether
you get better or worse. Your dying condition increases by 1
if you take damage while dying, or by 2 if you take damage
from an enemy’s critical hit or a critical failure on your save.
If you lose the dying condition by succeeding at a
recovery check and are still at 0 Hit Points, you remain
unconscious, but you can wake up as described in that
condition. You lose the dying condition automatically and
wake up if you ever have 1 Hit Point or more. Any time
you lose the dying condition, you gain the wounded 1
condition, or increase your wounded condition value by 1
if you already have that condition.
GROUPS OF CONDITIONS
Some conditions exist relative to one another or share a
similar theme. It can be useful to look at these conditions
together, rather than viewing them in isolation, to
understand how they interact.
Degrees of Detection: Observed, hidden, undetected,
unnoticed
Senses: Blinded, concealed, dazzled, deafened, invisible
Death and Dying: Doomed, dying, unconscious, wounded
Attitudes: Hostile, unfriendly, indifferent, friendly, helpful
Lowered Abilities: Clumsy, drained, enfeebled, stupefied
Encumbered
You are carrying more weight than you can manage.
While you’re encumbered, you’re clumsy 1 and take a
10-foot penalty to all your Speeds. As with all penalties
to your Speed, this can’t reduce your Speed below 5 feet.
Enfeebled
You’re physically weakened. Enfeebled always includes a
value. When you are enfeebled, you take a status penalty
equal to the condition value to Strength-based rolls
and DCs, including Strength-based melee attack rolls,
Strength-based damage rolls, and Athletics checks.
Fascinated
You are compelled to focus your attention on something,
distracting you from whatever else is going on around
you. You take a –2 status penalty to Perception and skill
checks, and you can’t use actions with the concentrate
trait unless they or their intended consequences are
related to the subject of your fascination (as determined
by the GM). For instance, you might be able to Seek
and Recall Knowledge about the subject, but you likely
couldn’t cast a spell targeting a different creature. This
DEATH AND DYING RULES
The doomed, dying, unconscious, and wounded
conditions all relate to the process of coming closer to
death. The full rules are on pages 459–461. The most
significant information not contained in the conditions
themselves is this: When you’re reduced to 0 Hit Points,
you’re knocked out with the following effects:
•	 You immediately move your initiative position to
directly before the creature or effect that reduced you
to 0 Hit Points.
•	 You gain the dying 1 condition. If the effect that
knocked you out was a critical success from the
attacker or the result of your critical failure, you
gain the dying 2 condition instead. If you have the
wounded condition, increase these values by your
wounded value. If the damage came from a nonlethal
attack or effect, you don’t gain the dying condition—
you are instead unconscious with 0 Hit Points.
