a believable fatal wound. This illusion looks and feels like a
dead body. If the target’s death seems absurd—for instance, a
barbarian at full health appears to be slain by 2 damage—the
GM can grant the attacker an immediate Perception check to
disbelieve the illusion. If the target uses hostile actions, the
spell ends. This ends the entire spell, so the illusory corpse
disappears too.
Heightened (7th) The spell doesn’t end if the target uses
hostile actions.
DUPLICATE FOE
SPELL 7
CONJURATION
Traditions arcane, occult
Cast [three-actions] material, somatic, verbal
Range 30 feet; Targets 1 enemy of level 15 or lower
Saving Throw Fortitude; Duration sustained up to 1 minute
You try to create a temporary duplicate of an enemy to fight
on your behalf. The target can attempt a Fortitude save to
disrupt the spell. The duplicate appears in an unoccupied space
adjacent to the target and has the target’s attack modifier, AC,
saving throw modifiers, Perception, and skill modifiers, but it
has only 70 Hit Points and lacks the target’s special abilities,
including immunities, resistances, and weaknesses. It has no
magic items except weapon potency runes.
The duplicate gains the minion trait, and it can only Stride
and Strike. Its Strikes deal the target’s normal damage but don’t
apply added effects, since it doesn’t have special abilities. The
spell automatically ends if the duplicate’s Hit Points drop to 0.
The duplicate attacks your enemies to the best of its
abilities. You can also try to give it additional instructions;
when you Sustain the Spell, you can also Command a Minion
as part of your action, but the GM determines whether the
duplicate follows your command.
The duplicate is unstable, so each turn after it takes its
actions, it loses 4d6 Hit Points. It’s not a living creature, and it
can never regain its lost Hit Points in any way.
Critical Success You fail to create a duplicate.
Success The duplicate deals half damage with its Strikes and
the duration is reduced to a maximum of 2 rounds.
Failure The duplicate works as described.
Heightened (+1) The level of creature you can target increases
by 2. The duplicate has 10 more HP.
EARTHBIND
SPELL 3
TRANSMUTATION
Traditions arcane, primal
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal
Range 120 feet; Targets 1 flying creature
Saving Throw Fortitude; Duration varies
Using the weight of earth, you hamper a target’s flight, with
effects based on its Fortitude save. If the creature reaches the
ground safely, it doesn’t take falling damage.
Critical Success The target is unaffected.
Success The target falls safely up to 120 feet.
Failure The target falls safely up to 120 feet. If it hits the ground,
it can’t Fly, levitate, or otherwise leave the ground for 1 round.
Critical Failure The target falls safely up to 120 feet. If it hits
the ground, it can’t Fly, levitate, or otherwise leave the
ground for 1 minute.
EARTHQUAKE
SPELL 8
EARTH
EVOCATION
Traditions arcane, primal
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal
Range 500 feet; Area 60-foot burst
Duration 1 round
You shake the ground, topple creatures into fissures, and
collapse structures.
The GM might add additional effects in certain areas. Cliffs
might collapse, causing creatures to fall, or a lake might
drain as fissures open up below its surface, leaving a morass
of quicksand.
•	 Shaking Ground The ground is difficult terrain, and
creatures on it take a –2 circumstance penalty to
attack rolls, AC, and skill checks.
•	 Fissures Each creature on the ground must attempt a
Reflex save at the start of its turn to keep its footing
and avoid falling into 40-foot-deep fissures that open
beneath it. The fissures are permanent, and their sides
require DC 15 Athletics to Climb.
•	 Collapse Structures and ceilings might collapse. The
GM rolls a flat check for each (DC 16 for a sturdy
structure, DC 14 for an average structure and most
natural formations, DC 9 for a shoddy structure,
all adjusted higher or lower as the GM sees fit). A
collapse deals 11d6 bludgeoning damage; each
creature caught in a collapse must attempt a Reflex
save to avoid it.
Critical Success The creature takes half the collapse damage.
Success The creature takes half the collapse damage and
falls prone.
Failure The creature takes the full collapse damage and
falls prone.
Critical Failure The creature takes the full collapse damage
and falls into a fissure.
Heightened (10th) You create a massive earthquake that can
devastate a settlement. The range increases to half a mile and
the area to a quarter-mile burst.
ECLIPSE BURST
SPELL 7
COLD
DARKNESS
NECROMANCY
NEGATIVE
Traditions arcane, divine, primal
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal
Range 500 feet; Area 60-foot burst
Saving Throw Reflex
A globe of freezing darkness explodes in the area, dealing
8d10 cold damage to creatures and objects in the area, plus
8d4 additional negative damage to living creatures. Creatures
and objects in the area must attempt a Reflex save.
If the globe overlaps with an area of magical light or affects
a creature affected by magical light, eclipse burst attempts to
counteract the light effect.
Core Rulebook
334
