Bulk Limits
You can carry an amount of Bulk equal to 5 plus your
Strength modifier without penalty; if you carry more, you
gain the encumbered condition. You can’t hold or carry
more Bulk than 10 plus your Strength modifier.
Encumbered
You are carrying more weight than you can manage.
While you’re encumbered, you’re clumsy 1 and take
a –10-foot penalty to all your Speeds. As with all
penalties to your Speed, this can’t reduce your Speed
below 5 feet.
Bulk Values
Items can have a number to indicate their Bulk value,
or they can be light (indicated by an L) or negligible
(indicated by a —) for the purpose of determining Bulk.
For instance, full plate armor is 4 Bulk, a longsword is
1 Bulk, a dagger or scroll is light, and a piece of chalk is
negligible. Ten light items count as 1 Bulk, and you round
down fractions (so 9 light items count as 0 Bulk, and 11
light items count as 1 Bulk). Items of negligible Bulk don’t
count toward Bulk unless you try to carry vast numbers
of them, as determined by the GM.
Estimating an Item’s Bulk
As a general rule, an item that weighs 5 to 10 pounds is 1
Bulk, an item weighing less than a few ounces is negligible,
and anything in between is light. Particularly awkward or
unwieldy items might have higher Bulk values. For example,
a 10-foot pole isn’t heavy, but its length makes it difficult
for you to move while you have one on your person, so its
Bulk is 1. Items made for larger or smaller creatures have
greater or lesser Bulk, as described on page 295.
Bulk of Coins
Coins are a popular means of exchange due to their
portability, but they can still add up. A thousand coins
of any denomination or combination of denominations
count as 1 Bulk. It’s not usually necessary to determine
the Bulk of coins in fractions of 1,000; simply round
down fractions of 1,000. In other words, 100 coins
don’t count as a light item, and 1,999 coins are 1 Bulk,
not 2.
Bulk of Creatures
You might need to know the Bulk of a creature, especially
if you need to carry someone off the battlefield. The table
that follows lists the typical Bulk of a creature based on its
size, but the GM might adjust this number.
	Size of Creature
Bulk

Tiny
1

Small
3

Medium
6

Large
12

Huge
24
	 Gargantuan
48
Dragging
In some situations, you might drag an object or creature
rather than carry it. If you’re dragging something, treat
its Bulk as half. Typically, you can drag one thing at
a time, you must use both hands to do so, and you
drag slowly—roughly 50 feet per minute unless you
have some means to speed it up. Use the total Bulk of
what you’re dragging, so if you have a sack laden with
goods, use the sum of all the Bulk it carries instead of an
individual item within.
Wielding Items
Some abilities require you to wield an item, typically a
weapon. You’re wielding an item any time you’re holding
it in the number of hands needed to use it effectively.
When wielding an item, you’re not just carrying it
around—you’re ready to use it. Other abilities might
require you to merely carry or have an item. These apply
as long as you have the item on your person; you don’t
have to wield it.
Item Damage
An item can be broken or destroyed if it takes enough
damage. Every item has a Hardness value. Each time an
item takes damage, reduce any damage the item takes by
its Hardness. The rest of the damage reduces the item’s
Hit Points. Normally an item takes damage only when
a creature is directly attacking it—commonly targeted
items include doors and traps. A creature that attacks
you doesn’t normally damage your armor or other gear,
even if it hits you. However, the Shield Block reaction can
cause your shield to take damage as you use it to prevent
damage to yourself, and some monsters have exceptional
abilities that can damage your items.
An item that takes damage can become broken
and eventually destroyed. It becomes broken when
its Hit Points are equal to or lower than its Broken
Threshold (BT); once its Hit Points are reduced to 0,
it is destroyed. A broken item has the broken condition
until Repaired above its Broken Threshold. Anything
that automatically makes an item broken immediately
reduces its Hit Points to its Broken Threshold if the item
had more Hit Points than that when the effect occurred.
If an item has no Broken Threshold, then it has no
relevant changes to its function due to being broken,
but it’s still destroyed at 0 Hit Points. (See the broken
condition definition on page 273 for more information.)
A destroyed item can’t be Repaired.
An item’s Hardness, Hit Points, and Broken Threshold
usually depend on the material the item is made of. This
information appears on page 577.
Core Rulebook
272
