A half-orc has a shorter lifespan than other humans,
living to be roughly 70 years old.
Playing a Half-Orc
You can create a half-orc character by selecting the
half‑orc heritage at 1st level. This gives you access to
orc and half‑orc ancestry feats in addition to human
ancestry feats.
You Might...
•	 Ignore, embrace, or actively counter the common
stereotypes about half-orcs.
•	 Make the most of your size and strength, either
physically or socially.
•	 Keep your distance from people of most other
ancestries, in case they unfairly reject you due to
your orc ancestors.
Others Probably...
•	 Assume you enjoy and excel at fighting but aren’t
inclined toward magical or intellectual pursuits.
•	 Pity you for the tragic circumstances they assume
were involved in your birth.
•	 Get out of your way and back down rather than
face your anger.
Human Heritages
Unlike other ancestries, humans don’t have significant
physiological differences defined by their lineage. Instead,
their heritages either reveal their potential as a people or
reflect lineages from multiple ancestries. Choose one of the
following human heritages at 1st level.
Half-Elf
Either one of your parents was an elf, or one or both
were half-elves. You have pointed ears and other telltale
signs of elf heritage. You gain the elf trait and low‑light
vision. In addition, you can select elf, half-elf, and
human feats whenever you gain an ancestry feat.
Half-Orc
One of your parents was an orc, or one or both were
half-orcs. You have a green tinge to your skin and
other indicators of orc heritage. You gain the orc
trait and low‑light vision. In addition, you can select
orc, half‑orc, and human feats whenever you gain an
ancestry feat.
Skilled Heritage
Your ingenuity allows you to train in a wide variety of
skills. You become trained in one skill of your choice.
At 5th level, you become an expert in the chosen skill.
Versatile Heritage
Humanity’s versatility and ambition have fueled its
ascendance to be the most common ancestry in most
nations throughout the world. Select a general feat of
your choice for which you meet the prerequisites (as with
your ancestry feat, you can select this general feat at any
point during character creation).
Human Ancestry Feats
At 1st level, you gain one ancestry feat, and you gain an
additional ancestry feat every 4 levels thereafter (at 5th,
9th, 13th, and 17th levels). As a human, you choose from
among the following ancestry feats.
Core Rulebook
56
