spell for a domain belonging to the deity the cassock is dedicated
to. If you don’t spend this Focus Point by the end of this turn, it
is lost.
Craft Requirements You are a cleric who worships the deity
tied to the cassock.
CHANNEL PROTECTION AMULET
ITEM 3
UNCOMMON
 ABJURATION
 INVESTED
 MAGICAL
Price 56 gp
Usage worn; Bulk —
This nugget of polished tektite is trapped in a cage of braided
wire and hangs from a silken cord. When wearing this amulet,
you gain resistance 5 against damage from harm spells if
you’re living, or against heal spells if you’re undead.
CHOKER OF ELOCUTION
ITEM 6+
ENCHANTMENT
 INVESTED
 MAGICAL
Usage worn collar; Bulk L
This platinum choker bears characters from a language’s alphabet,
and it gives knowledge of that language and the associated
culture’s customs. You gain a +1 item bonus to Society checks and
the ability to understand, speak, and write the chosen language.
Your excellent elocution reduces the DC of the flat check to
perform an auditory action while deafened from 5 to 3.
Type choker of elocution; Level 6; Price 200 gp
Type greater choker of elocution; Level 10; Price 850 gp
The item bonus is +2. The choker bears characters from three
languages and grants fluency in all three.
Craft Requirements You know the language or languages the
choker grants.
CLANDESTINE CLOAK
ITEM 6+
UNCOMMON
 ILLUSION
 INVESTED
 MAGICAL
Usage worn cloak; Bulk L
When you pull up the hood of this nondescript gray cloak
(an Interact action), you become drab and uninteresting, gaining
a +1 item bonus to Stealth checks and to Deception checks to
Impersonate a forgettable background character, such as a
servant, but also taking a –1 item penalty to Diplomacy and
Intimidation checks.
Activate [two-actions] envision, Interact; Frequency once per day;
Effect You pull the cloak’s hood up and gain the benefits of
nondetection for 1 hour or until you pull the hood back down,
whichever comes first.
Type clandestine cloak; Level 6; Price 230 gp
Type greater clandestine cloak; Level 10; Price 900 gp
The item bonus is +2, and when you activate the cloak, you
gain the benefits of 5th-level nondetection for 8 hours.
CLOAK OF ELVENKIND
ITEM 7+
ILLUSION
 INVESTED
 MAGICAL
Usage worn cloak; Bulk L
This cloak is deep green with a voluminous hood, embroidered
with gold trim and symbols significant in elven culture. The
cloak allows you to cast the ghost sound cantrip as an arcane
innate spell. When you adjust the cloak’s clasp (an Interact
action), the cloak transforms to match the environment around
you and muffles your sounds, granting you a +1 item bonus to
Stealth checks.
Activate [two-actions] Interact; Frequency once per day; Effect You
draw the hood up and gain the effects of invisibility, with
the spell’s normal duration or until you pull the hood back
down, whichever comes first. If you’re also wearing boots of
elvenkind, you can activate this ability twice per day.
Type cloak of elvenkind; Level 7; Price 360 gp
Type greater cloak of elvenkind; Level 12; Price 1,750 gp
The cloak grants a +2 item bonus, and the effects of 4th-level
invisibility. If you’re also wearing boots of elvenkind, the greater
cloak of elvenkind allows you to Sneak in forest environments
even when creatures are currently observing you.
CLOAK OF THE BAT
ITEM 10+
INVESTED
 MAGICAL
 TRANSMUTATION
Usage worn cloak; Bulk L
Core Rulebook
608
