You create a semicorporeal hand out of your essence that
delivers touch spells for you. Whenever you Cast a Spell with a
range of touch, you can have the hand crawl to a target within
range along the ground, touch it, and then crawl back to you.
When making a melee spell attack with the hand, you use your
normal bonuses. The hand can move as far as it needs to within
range. The hand has your AC and saves, but any damage to the
hand destroys it and causes you to take 1d6 damage.
SPELL IMMUNITY
SPELL 4
ABJURATION
Traditions arcane, divine, occult
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal
Range touch; Targets 1 creature
Duration 24 hours
You ward a creature against the effects of a single spell. Choose
a spell and name it aloud as part of the verbal component. Spell
immunity attempts to counteract that spell whenever spell
immunity’s target is the target of the named spell or in that
spell’s area. Successfully counteracting a spell that targets
an area or multiple targets with spell immunity negates the
effects only for the target affected by spell immunity.
SPELL TURNING
SPELL 7
UNCOMMON
ABJURATION
Traditions arcane
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal
Duration 1 hour
This abjuration reflects spells cast at you back at their caster.
When a spell targets you, you can spend a reaction to attempt
to reflect it. This uses the rules for counteracting the spell, but
if the spell is successfully counteracted, the effect is turned
back on the caster. Whether or not the counteract attempt is
successful, spell turning then ends. Spell turning can’t affect
spells that aren’t targeted (such as area spells).
If spell turning reflects a spell back at a caster who is also
under the effect of spell turning, their spell turning can attempt
to reflect their own spell back at you again; if they do so, their
counteract attempt automatically succeeds.
SPELLWRACK
SPELL 6
ABJURATION
CURSE
FORCE
Traditions arcane, divine, occult
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal
Range 30 feet; Targets 1 creature
Saving Throw Will
You cause any spells cast on the target to spill out their energy
in harmful surges. The target must attempt a Will save.
Critical Success The target is unaffected.
Success Whenever the target becomes affected by a spell with
a duration, the target takes 2d12 persistent force damage.
Each time it takes persistent force damage from spellwrack,
it reduces the remaining duration of spells affecting it by 1
round. Only a successful Arcana check against your spell
DC can help the target recover from the persistent damage;
the curse and the persistent damage end after 1 minute.
Failure As success, but the curse and persistent damage do
not end on their own.
Critical Failure As failure, but the persistent force damage
is 4d12.
SPIDER CLIMB
SPELL 2
TRANSMUTATION
Traditions arcane, primal
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal
Range touch; Targets 1 creature
Duration 10 minutes
Tiny clinging hairs sprout across the creature’s hands and feet,
offering purchase on nearly any surface. The target gains a
climb Speed equal to its Speed.
Heightened (5th) The duration increases to 1 hour.
SPIDER STING
SPELL 1
ATTACK
NECROMANCY
POISON
Traditions arcane, primal
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal
Range touch; Targets 1 creature
Saving Throw Fortitude
You magically duplicate a spider’s venomous sting. You deal
1d4 piercing damage to the touched creature and afflict it
with spider venom. The target must attempt a Fortitude save.
Critical Success The target is unaffected.
Success The target takes 1d4 poison damage.
Failure The target is afflicted with spider venom at stage 1.
Critical Failure The target is afflicted with spider venom at
stage 2.
Spider Venom (poison); Level 1; Maximum Duration 4 rounds.
Stage 1 1d4 poison damage and enfeebled 1 (1 round); Stage
2 1d4 poison damage and enfeebled 2 (1 round).
SPIRIT BLAST
SPELL 6
FORCE
NECROMANCY
Traditions divine, occult
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal
Range 30 feet; Targets 1 creature
Saving Throw basic Fortitude
You concentrate ethereal energy and attack a creature’s
spirit, dealing 16d6 force damage. Because spirit blast affects
the creature’s spirit, it can damage a target projecting its
consciousness (such as via project image) or possessing
another creature even if the target’s body is elsewhere. The
possessed creature isn’t harmed by the blast. The blast doesn’t
harm creatures that have no spirit, such as constructs.
Heightened (+1) The damage increases by 2d6.
SPIRIT LINK
SPELL 1
HEALING
NECROMANCY
Traditions divine, occult
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal
Range 30 feet; Targets 1 willing creature
Duration 10 minutes
You form a spiritual link with another creature, allowing you
371
7
SPELLS
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Skills
Feats
Equipment
Spells
The Age of
Lost OMENS
Playing the
Game
Game
mastering
Crafting
& Treasure
Appendix
