Fighter
You have spent time learning the art of warfare, increasing
your skill with martial arms and at wearing armor. With
further training, you can become a true combat specialist.
Multiclass Fighter characters
The fighter archetype grants access to great feats
for characters focusing on any combat style, and it’s
particularly helpful for characters looking to diversify their
offensive abilities or focus on more powerful weapons.
•	 Barbarian fighters can combine their talents with
two-handed weapons with some of the fighter’s
two-handed feats to devastating effect.
•	 Champion fighters focus on a style of combat
exemplified by their deity. A shield-using champion
benefits from the best of both worlds in shield feats.
•	 Monk fighters are great at combining unusual
weapon styles. For instance, a monks
isn’t hindered by a restriction to
keep one hand free, because they
want to punch you with that
hand anyway.
•	 Ranger fighters can either specialize in archery
or use their fighter feats to pick up an unusual
combat style combination.
•	 Rogue fighters can make good use of fighter’s free
hand, two-weapon fighting, or archery feats.
•	 Spellcaster fighters benefit greatly from the additional
weapon proficiencies, and fighter is a solid choice for
any spellcaster of a particularly martial bent.
FIGHTER DEDICATION
FEAT 2
ARCHETYPE
DEDICATION
MULTICLASS
Prerequisites Strength 14, Dexterity 14
You become trained in simple weapons and martial weapons.
You become trained in your choice of Acrobatics or Athletics;
if you are already trained in both of these skills, you instead
become trained in a skill of your choice. You become trained
in fighter class DC.
Special You cannot select another dedication feat until you
have gained two other feats from the fighter archetype.
BASIC MANEUVER 
FEAT 4
ARCHETYPE
Prerequisites Fighter Dedication
You gain a 1st- or 2nd-level fighter feat.
FIGHTER RESILIENCY 
FEAT 4
ARCHETYPE
Prerequisites Fighter Dedication, class granting no more Hit
Points per level than 8 + your Constitution modifier
You gain 3 additional Hit Points for each fighter archetype
class feat you have. As you continue selecting fighter
archetype class feats, you continue to gain additional Hit
Points in this way.
OPPORTUNIST 
FEAT 4
ARCHETYPE
Prerequisites Fighter Dedication
You gain the Attack of Opportunity reaction, found on
page 142.
ADVANCED MANEUVER 
FEAT 6
ARCHETYPE
Prerequisites Basic Maneuver
You gain a fighter feat. For the purpose of meeting its
prerequisites, your fighter level is equal to half your
character level.
Special You can select this feat more than once. Each time
you select it, you gain another fighter feat.
DIVERSE WEAPON EXPERT 
FEAT 12
ARCHETYPE
Prerequisites Fighter Dedication, expert in any kind of
weapon or unarmed attack
Your proficiency ranks for simple weapons and martial
weapons increase to expert, and your proficiency rank for
advanced weapons increases to trained.
Core Rulebook
226
