At 1st level when you create your character, you gain a
background of your choice. This decision is permanent;
you can’t change it at later levels. Each background listed
here grants two ability boosts, a skill feat, and the trained
proficiency rank in two skills, one of which is a Lore skill.
If you gain the trained proficiency rank in a skill from your
background and would then gain the trained proficiency
rank in the same skill from your class at 1st level, you
instead become trained in another skill of your choice.
Lore skills represent deep knowledge of a specific
subject and are described on page 247. If a Lore skill
involves a choice (for instance, a choice of terrain), explain
your preference to the GM, who has final say on whether
it’s acceptable or not. If you’d like some suggestions, the
Common Lore Subcategories sidebar on page 248 lists a
number of Lore skills that are suitable for most campaigns.
Skill feats expand the functions of your skills and
appear in Chapter 5: Feats.
ACOLYTE
BACKGROUND
You spent your early days in a religious monastery or
cloister. You may have traveled out into the world to spread
the message of your religion or because you cast away the
teachings of your faith, but deep down you’ll always carry
within you the lessons you learned.
Choose two ability boosts. One must be to Intelligence or
Wisdom, and one is a free ability boost.
You’re trained in the Religion skill and the Scribing Lore
skill. You gain the Student of the Canon skill feat.
ACROBAT
BACKGROUND
In a circus or on the streets, you earned your pay by
performing as an acrobat. You might have turned to
adventuring when the money dried up, or simply decided to
put your skills to better use.
Choose two ability boosts. One must be to Strength or
Dexterity, and one is a free ability boost.
You’re trained in the Acrobatics skill and the Circus Lore
skill. You gain the Steady Balance skill feat.
ANIMAL WHISPERER
BACKGROUND
You have always felt a connection to animals, and it was
only a small leap to learn to train them. As you travel, you
continuously encounter different creatures, befriending them
along the way.
Choose two ability boosts. One must be to Wisdom or
Charisma, and one is a free ability boost.
You’re trained in the Nature skill and a Lore skill related to
one terrain inhabited by animals you like (such as Plains Lore
or Swamp Lore). You gain the Train Animal skill feat.
ARTISAN
BACKGROUND
As an apprentice, you practiced a particular form of building
or crafting, developing specialized skill. You might have been
a blacksmith’s apprentice toiling over the forge for countless
hours, a young tailor sewing garments of all kinds, or a
shipwright shaping the hulls of ships.
Choose two ability boosts. One must be to Strength or
Intelligence, and one is a free ability boost.
You’re trained in the Crafting skill and the Guild Lore skill.
You gain the Specialty Crafting skill feat.
ARTIST
BACKGROUND
Your art is your greatest passion, whatever form it takes.
Adventuring might help you find inspiration, or simply be a
way to survive until you become a world-famous artist.
Choose two ability boosts. One must be to Dexterity or
Charisma, and one is a free ability boost.
You’re trained in the Crafting skill and the Art Lore skill. You
gain the Specialty Crafting skill feat.
BARKEEP
BACKGROUND
You have five specialties: hefting barrels, drinking, polishing
steins, drinking, and drinking. You worked in a bar, where you
learned how to hold your liquor and rowdily socialize.
Choose two ability boosts. One must be to Constitution or
Charisma, and one is a free ability boost.
You’re trained in the Diplomacy skill and the Alcohol Lore
skill. You gain the Hobnobber skill feat.
BARRISTER
BACKGROUND
Piles of legal manuals, stern teachers, and experience in the
courtroom have instructed you in legal matters. You’re capable
of mounting a prosecution or defense in court, and you tend
to keep abreast of local laws, as you never can tell when you
might need to know them on short notice.
Choose two ability boosts. One must be to Intelligence or
Charisma, and one is a free ability boost.
You’re trained in the Diplomacy skill and the Legal Lore skill.
You gain the Group Impression skill feat.
Backgrounds
Backgrounds allow you to customize your character based on their life before adventuring.
This is the next step in their life story after their ancestry, which reflects the circumstances
of their birth. Your character’s background can help you learn or portray more about their
personality while also suggesting what sorts of things they’re likely to know. Consider
what events set your character on their path to the life of an adventurer and how those
circumstances relate to their background.
Core Rulebook
60
