The robe of eyes is not without its dangers. If any spell
with the light trait is cast on you or your square while you
are wearing the robe, you are blinded for a number of rounds
equal to the spell’s level unless you succeed at a Fortitude
save against the spell’s DC.
Activate [one-action] Interact; Effect You pluck an eye
from the robe and toss it into the air,
where it turns invisible and floats to a
destination you choose, with the same
effect as a 5th-level prying eye spell.
You can Sustain the Activation just as you
would be able to Sustain the Spell.
ROBE OF THE ARCHMAGI
ITEM 15+
UNCOMMON
 ABJURATION
 ARCANE
 INVESTED
Usage worn garment; Bulk 1
Embroidered with fine silver thread in ornate arcane patterns,
these robes come in one of three colors depending on their
attuned alignment. Good robes are white, neutral robes are
gray, and evil robes are black. An evil or good robe gains the
appropriate trait. The robes benefit only characters who can
cast arcane spells and whose alignment on the good-evil
axis matches that of the robe. If your alignment does
not match that of the robe, or you are not an arcane
spellcaster, you are instead stupefied 2 while
wearing a robe of the archmagi. This condition
can’t be removed in any way until you
remove the robe.
The robes are +2 greater resilient
explorer’s clothing, and they grant a +1
circumstance bonus to saving throws
against arcane spells and resistance 5 to
damage from arcane spells.
Activate [reaction] command; Frequency
once per day; Trigger You attempt a
saving throw against an arcane spell,
but you haven’t rolled yet; Effect You
automatically succeed at your save
against the triggering arcane spell.
Type robe of the archmagi; Level 15;
Price 6,500 gp
Type greater robe of the archmagi;
Level 19; Price 32,000 gp
The resistance against arcane spells is 10.
You can activate the robe when you or an ally
within 30 feet attempts a saving throw against
an arcane spell, and the robe grants either you
or the ally a success on the triggering saving
throw; you still can activate it only once per day.
Craft Requirements You are an arcane spellcaster.
SLIPPERS OF SPIDER CLIMBING
ITEM 7
INVESTED
 MAGICAL
 TRANSMUTATION
Price 325 gp
Usage worn shoes; Bulk L
These soft slippers are made of fine gray silk. If the slippers
are left unattended for a while, they tend to attract spiders
that nest inside.
Activate [one-action] command; Frequency once per hour; Effect
Tiny, hairlike tendrils extend from the slippers’ soles, allowing
you to walk on vertical surfaces or even to move upside down
along ceilings. For 1 minute, you gain a 20-foot
climb Speed and you don’t need to use
your hands to Climb. However, the
slippers require decent traction for
you to walk on a wall, so they provide
no benefit when you’re moving across
greased, icy, or oiled surfaces.
THIRD EYE
ITEM 19
DIVINATION
 INVESTED
 MAGICAL
Price 40,000 gp
Usage worn; Bulk —
When invested, this ornate crown and its incandescent
gemstone meld into your head and take the form of a tattoo.
This grants you otherworldly sight and allows you to read
auras. No one but you can manipulate the third eye while it’s
invested by you. Your heightened senses and ability to
sense emotional auras grant you a +3 item bonus to
Perception checks.
You continuously see magic auras, as a 9th-
level detect magic spell, except you see the
location of all auras within 30 feet, not
just the strongest. If you use a Seek
action to study a creature you can see,
you can perceive an aura that conveys
knowledge of that creature’s health,
including all conditions and afflictions it
has and an approximate percentage of its
remaining Hit Points.
Activate [two-actions] envision, command;
Frequency once per day; Effect You
gain the effects of an 8th-level true
seeing spell.
TRACKER’S GOGGLES
ITEM 3+
DIVINATION
 INVESTED
 MAGICAL
Usage worn eyepiece; Bulk—
These lenses of forest-green glass are
bound in rough leather stitched with crude
twine. While wearing these goggles, you
gain a +1 bonus to Survival checks to Sense
Direction and Track. If you fail a check to
Track, you can try again after 30 minutes
rather than an hour.
Type tracker’s goggles; Level 3; Price
60 gp
Type greater tracker’s goggles; Level
9; Price 660 gp
The goggles grant a +2 bonus. If you fail a
check to Track, you can try again after 15 minutes
rather than an hour.
Core Rulebook
616
