fastened to your upper arms, the armbands give you a +2
item bonus to Athletics checks. In addition, whenever you use
an action to Climb or Swim and you succeed at the Athletics
check, add a +5-foot item bonus to the distance you move.
Type armbands of athleticism; Level 9; Price 645 gp
Type greater armbands of athleticism; Level
17; Price 13,000 gp
The bonus to Athletics checks is +3, and the
bonus to a successful check to Climb or Swim
is +10 feet.
BELT OF THE FIVE KINGS
ITEM 9
UNCOMMON
 ENCHANTMENT
 INVESTED
 MAGICAL
Price 650 gp
Usage worn belt; Bulk L
Made from interlocking plates of silver and gold,
this heavy belt bears stylized miniature images of five kingly
dwarves. You gain a +1 circumstance bonus to Diplomacy
checks to Make an Impression with dwarves or
make a Request from dwarves. You also gain a +1
circumstance bonus to Intimidation checks against
giants and orcs.
The belt also grants you darkvision and the ability
to understand, speak, and write the Dwarven language.
Activate [one-action] Interact; Frequency once per day;
Requirements You are a dwarf; Effect You tighten the
belt one notch to gain temporary Hit Points equal
to your level and grant allies within 20 feet
of you darkvision. Both effects last for
10 minutes.
BERSERKER’S CLOAK
ITEM 12+
INVESTED
 PRIMAL
 TRANSMUTATION
Usage worn cloak; Bulk 1
This bearskin includes the head and bared teeth of the mighty
creature from which it was taken. When worn, the cloak
drapes over your head and around your shoulders, imbuing
you with a bear’s ferocity. If you have the Rage action, while
raging you grow jaws that deal 1d10 piercing damage and
claws that deal 1d6 slashing damage and have the agile trait.
This transformation is a morph effect, and both the jaws
and claws are unarmed attacks in the brawling weapon
group. You gain the benefits of a +1 weapon potency rune
and a striking rune with these attacks (gaining a +1
item bonus to attack rolls and increasing the weapon
damage dice by one).
If you have an animal instinct (see the barbarian
on page 82) and the bestial rage instinct ability,
instead of gaining these unarmed attacks, your
unarmed attacks from the bestial rage instinct
ability gain the benefits of a +2 weapon potency
rune and a greater striking rune (granting a +2
item bonus to attack rolls and increasing the weapon
damage dice by two).
Type berserker’s cloak; Level 12; Price 2,000 gp
Type greater berserker’s cloak; Level 19; Price 40,000 gp
You gain the benefits of a +2 weapon potency rune and a
greater striking rune, or a +3 weapon potency rune and a major
striking rune if you have an animal instinct and the bestial
rage instinct ability.
Craft Requirements You are a barbarian with the
animal instinct.
BOOTS OF BOUNDING
ITEM 7+
INVESTED
 MAGICAL
 TRANSMUTATION
Usage worn shoes; Bulk L
The springy soles of these sturdy leather
boots cushion your feet and make each step
lighter. These boots give you a +5-foot item
bonus to your Speed and a +2 item bonus to
Athletics checks to High Jump and Long Jump. In
addition, when you use the Leap action, you can move
5 feet further if jumping horizontally or 3  feet higher if
jumping vertically.
Type boots of bounding; Level 7; Price 340 gp
Type greater boots of bounding; Level 14; Price 4,250 gp
The bonus to Speed is +10 feet, and the bonus to High
Jump and Long Jump is +3.
BOOTS OF ELVENKIND
ITEM 5+
INVESTED
 MAGICAL
 TRANSMUTATION
Usage worn shoes; Bulk L
These tall, pointed boots are made from soft, supple
black or green leather and are decorated with trim
and buckles of gold. When worn, the boots allow you
to move more nimbly, granting you a +1 item bonus to
Acrobatics checks.
Activate [free-action] envision; Frequency once per hour; Effect
Until the end of your turn, you ignore difficult terrain when
moving on the ground. If you’re wearing a cloak of elvenkind,
you also gain a +5-foot status bonus to your land Speed until
the end of your turn.
Type boots of elvenkind; Level 5; Price 145 gp
Type greater boots of elvenkind; Level 11; Price 1,250 gp
The boots grant a +2 bonus. If you’re also wearing a cloak of
elvenkind, greater boots of elvenkind constantly grant the effects
of pass without trace (DC 30) in forest environments.
BOOTS OF SPEED
ITEM 13
 INVESTED
 MAGICAL
 TRANSMUTATION
Price 3,000 gp
Usage worn shoes; Bulk L
These sleek red boots make your legs feel like
they’re bursting with energy. You gain a +5-foot
item bonus to your land Speed and to any
climb or swim Speeds you have.
Activate [one-action] Interact; Frequency once per day;
Effect You click the heels of the boots together and
gain the quickened condition for 1 minute. You can use the
extra action to Stride, Climb, or Swim. (You must still attempt
an Athletics check for the Climb and Swim actions unless you
have the appropriate movement type.)
Core Rulebook
606
