The largest factions compete with lesser sovereign nations
for wealth, power, and influence, and they sometimes
rival even larger nations. In some cases, nations take
the risky step of relying upon these powerful factions,
making them an extension of government itself (as is the
case with some Hellknights in Cheliax, for example). In
other cases, such as that of the Red Mantis, entire nations
bow to the power of these organizations. Smaller groups,
while less rich in resources, nonetheless inspire great zeal
in their members. Those groups that strive to grow in size,
influence, or wealth frequently attract more dedicated
and motivated members.
The factions summarized below represent a sampling
of those active in the Inner Sea region. Some, like the
Pathfinder Society and the Aspis Consortium, are
widespread and powerful; their influence can be found
throughout the world. Others, such as the Firebrands
and the Sczarni, are disorganized or regional in scope.
All encourage adventurers to join their ranks, although
the benefits each faction can offer an adventurer
varies widely.
Aspis Consortium
The sprawling mercantile concern known
as the Aspis Consortium is structured to
ensure that the survival of the faction is
more important than any single member. Originally
founded as a private trading endeavor, the Consortium
has grown to be one of the largest business ventures in the
Inner Sea region. Most of the group’s members are skilled
merchants and mercenaries, and the organization has
made a merciless and bloodthirsty name for itself when it
comes to ensuring its profits. The Aspis Consortium has
clashed many times with the Pathfinder Society.
Bellflower Network
The unsavory practice of slavery continues
to be a strong economic force in diabolic
Cheliax. Here, halflings are particularly
valued as slaves, for they work hard and take up only
half the room of a human laborer. It should come as no
surprise, then, to learn of the Bellflower Network, an
organization founded by halfling freedom fighters that
accepts any into its ranks, provided they aid the network
in its goal of freeing all slaves from servitude and helping
them escape from oppressive lands like Cheliax.
Esoteric Order of the
Palatine Eye
Based in the nation of Ustalav, the
scholars and philosophers of this
semisecret society have long stood
against the Whispering Way (page 441), but more recent
events have placed them in opposition to the sinister goals
of the Night Heralds. When left to their own devices,
however, members of this faction prefer to explore and
study dusty secrets hidden in the past, particularly those
still awaiting rediscovery in the regions of the Golden
Road—especially in the nation of Osirion.
Eagle Knights
The Eagle Knights are the protectors and
defenders of the people of Andoran. The
group itself consists of four subfactions—
the Steel Falcons (who protect Andoran’s
interests beyond its borders), the Golden Legion
(Andoran’s defenders and the commanders of its armies),
the Gray Corsairs (nautical agents who specialize in
fighting the slave trade), and the Twilight Talons (spies
and deep cover agents).
Firebrands
Not all factions have central bases of
operation or organized hierarchies of
command. The loosely affiliated freedom
fighters,
swashbuckling
heroes,
and
entertainers known as the Firebrands are one such group.
They are united by a desire to fight oppression, oppose
tyrannical regimes, free slaves, rescue the wrongfully
accused, and engage in jolly cooperation with like-minded
heroes—all
while
building
their
own
individual
reputations and wealth. This group of defenders has
proven surprisingly difficult for oppressive governments
and cruel religions to defeat.
Free Captains
To an outside observer or a merchant
whose ship has been looted or sunk, the
pirates of the Shackles may seem like
Factions
While nations and faiths command vast resources and control entire regions, they must still
compete for the loyalty of their followers. In addition to being swayed by church and state,
many people are influenced by societal groups known as factions. These groups vary wildly
in size and purpose­—from local thieves’ guilds interested only in filling the pockets and
bellies of their members, to far-reaching, international commercial conglomerates with their
own private armies.
THE AGE OF LOST OMENS
435
8
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Skills
Feats
Equipment
Spells
The Age of
Lost OMENS
Playing the
Game
Game
mastering
Crafting
& Treasure
Appendix
