1ST LEVEL
COUNTERSPELL [reaction]
FEAT 1
ABJURATION
SORCERER
Trigger A creature casts a spell that you have in your repertoire.
Requirements You have an unexpended spell slot you could
use to cast the triggering spell.
When a foe Casts a Spell you know and you can see its
manifestations, you can use your own magic to disrupt it.
You expend one of your spell slots to counter the triggering
creature’s casting of a spell that you have in your repertoire.
You lose your spell slot as if you had cast the triggering spell.
You then attempt to counteract the triggering spell (page 458).
Special This feat has the trait corresponding to the tradition
of spells you cast (arcane, divine, natural, or occult).
DANGEROUS SORCERY
FEAT 1
SORCERER
Your legacy grants you great destructive power. When you
Cast a Spell from your spell slots, if the spell deals damage and
doesn’t have a duration, you gain a status bonus to that spell’s
damage equal to the spell’s level.
FAMILIAR
FEAT 1
SORCERER
An animal serves you and assists your spellcasting. You gain a
familiar (rules for familiars are found on page 217).
REACH SPELL [one-action]
FEAT 1
CONCENTRATE
METAMAGIC
SORCERER
You can extend the range of your spells. If the next action you
use is to Cast a Spell that has a range, increase that spell’s range
by 30 feet. As is standard for increasing spell ranges, if the spell
normally has a range of touch, you extend its range to 30 feet.
WIDEN SPELL [one-action]
FEAT 1
MANIPULATE
METAMAGIC
SORCERER
You manipulate the energy of your spell, causing it to affect a
wider area. If the next action you use is to Cast a Spell that has
an area of a burst, cone, or line and does not have a duration,
increase the area of that spell. Add 5 feet to the radius of a
burst that normally has a radius of at least 10 feet (a burst
with a smaller radius is not affected). Add 5 feet to the length
of a cone or line that is normally 15 feet long or smaller, and
add 10 feet to the length of a larger cone or line.
2ND LEVEL
CANTRIP EXPANSION
FEAT 2
SORCERER
You better understand the basic power of your bloodline. Add
two additional cantrips from your spell list to your repertoire.
ENHANCED FAMILIAR
FEAT 2
SORCERER
Prerequisites a familiar
KEY TERMS
You’ll see the following key terms in many sorcerer abilities.
Metamagic: Actions with the metamagic trait tweak
the properties of your spells. These actions usually come
from metamagic feats. You must use a metamagic action
directly before Casting the Spell you want to alter. If you
use any action (including free actions and reactions) other
than Cast a Spell directly after, you waste the benefits of
the metamagic action. Any additional effects added by a
metamagic action are part of the spell’s effect, not of the
metamagic action itself.
Blood Magic Spiteful curses punish your foes. The first creature
that deals damage to you before the end of your next turn takes 2
mental damage per spell level and must attempt a basic Will save.
Imperial
One of your ancestors was a mortal who mastered magic.
Such magical blood can remain latent for generations,
but in you it manifested in full.
Spell List arcane (page 307)
Bloodline Skills Arcana, Society
Granted Spells cantrip: detect magic; 1st: magic missile; 2nd:
dispel magic; 3rd: haste; 4th: dimension door; 5th: prying
eye; 6th: disintegrate; 7th: prismatic spray; 8th: maze; 9th:
prismatic sphere
Bloodline Spells initial: ancestral memories; advanced: extend
spell; greater: arcane countermeasure
Blood Magic A surge of ancestral memories grants you or one
target a +1 status bonus to skill checks for 1 round.
Undead
The touch of undeath runs through your blood. Your
family tree might contain powerful undead, like a
vampire, or perhaps you died and returned a bit different.
Spell List divine (page 309)
Bloodline Skills Intimidation, Religion
Granted Spells cantrip: chill touch; 1st: harm; 2nd: false life; 3rd:
bind undead; 4th: talking corpse; 5th: cloudkill; 6th: vampiric
exsanguination; 7th: finger of death; 8th: horrid wilting; 9th:
wail of the banshee
Bloodline Spells initial: touch of undeath; advanced: drain life;
greater: grasping grave
Blood Magic Necromantic energy flows through you or one
target. Either you gain temporary Hit Points equal to the
spell’s level for 1 round, or a target takes 1 negative damage
per spell level (if the spell already deals initial negative
damage, combine this with the spell’s initial damage before
determining weaknesses and resistances).
Sorcerer Feats
At every level at which you gain a sorcerer feat, you can
select one of the following feats. You must satisfy any
prerequisites before taking the feat.
Core Rulebook
198
