Swamp You can move across bogs at full Speed, even if
they are deep enough to be greater difficult terrain or to
normally require you to Swim.
HUNTER’S AIM [two-actions]
FEAT 2
CONCENTRATE
RANGER
When you focus on aiming, your attack becomes particularly
accurate. Make a ranged weapon Strike against your hunted
prey. On this Strike, you gain a +2 circumstance bonus to the
attack roll and ignore your prey’s concealed condition.
MONSTER WARDEN
FEAT 2
RANGER
Prerequisites Monster Hunter
You understand how to defend yourself and others against
your prey. When you grant bonuses from Monster Hunter,
you and your allies also each gain a +1 circumstance
bonus to your next saving throw against that particular
creature and to your AC against that creature’s next attack
against you.
QUICK DRAW [one-action]
FEAT 2
RANGER
You draw your weapon and attack with the same motion. You
Interact to draw a weapon, then Strike with that weapon.
WILD EMPATHY
FEAT 2
RANGER
You have a connection to the creatures of the natural
world that allows you to communicate with them on
a rudimentary level. You can use Diplomacy to Make an
Impression on animals and to make very simple Requests
of them. In most cases, wild animals will give you time to
make your case.
4TH LEVEL
COMPANION’S CRY
FEAT 4
RANGER
Prerequisites an animal companion
You can urge your companion to do its utmost. You can
spend 2 actions to Command an Animal instead of 1 when
commanding your animal companion. If you do, your animal
companion uses an additional action.
DISRUPT PREY [free-action]
FEAT 4
RANGER
Trigger Your hunted prey is within your reach, and it uses a
manipulate action, uses a move action, or leaves a square
during a move action it’s using.
Make a melee Strike against your prey. If the attack is a critical
hit, you disrupt the triggering action.
FAR SHOT
FEAT 4
RANGER
Your experience in the field has taught you how to focus
your aim at a distance, increasing your accuracy. Double
your weapons’ range increments.
FAVORED ENEMY
FEAT 4
RANGER
You have studied a specific type of wild creature and can
hunt it more easily. When you gain this feat, choose animals,
beasts, dragons, or both fungi and plants as your favored
enemy. When you roll initiative and can see an enemy that
belongs to the chosen category, you can Hunt Prey as a free
action, designating that enemy.
You can use this free action even if you haven’t identified
the creature yet with Recall Knowledge. The benefit doesn’t
apply against favored enemies disguised as other creatures,
and the GM determines whether it applies against a creature
disguised as a favored enemy.
RUNNING RELOAD [one-action]
FEAT 4
RANGER
You can reload your weapon on the move. You Stride, Step, or
Sneak, then Interact to reload.
SCOUT’S WARNING [free-action]
FEAT 4
RANGER
Trigger You are about to roll a Perception or Survival check
for initiative.
You visually or audibly warn your allies of danger, granting
them each a +1 circumstance bonus to their initiative rolls.
Depending on whether you use gestures or call out, this action
gains either the visual or the auditory trait, respectively.
SNARE SPECIALIST
FEAT 4
RANGER
Prerequisites expert in Crafting, Snare Crafting
You specialize in creating quick traps to obstruct your enemies
on the battlefield. If your proficiency rank in Crafting is expert,
you gain the formulas for three common or uncommon snares
(page 589). If your rank is master, you gain 6. If your rank is
legendary, you gain 9.
Each day during your daily preparations, you can prepare
four snares from your formula book for quick deployment; if
they normally take 1 minute to Craft, you can Craft them with
3 Interact actions. The number of snares increases to six if
you have master proficiency in Crafting and eight if you have
legendary proficiency in Crafting. Snares prepared in this way
don’t cost you any resources to Craft.
TWIN PARRY [one-action]
FEAT 4
RANGER
Requirements You are wielding two melee weapons, one in
each hand.
You can use two weapons to deflect attacks. You gain a +1
circumstance bonus to AC until the start of your next turn,
or a +2 circumstance bonus if either weapon has the parry
trait. You lose this circumstance bonus if you no longer meet
this feat’s requirement.
Core Rulebook
172
