Initiative
At the start of an encounter, all creatures involved roll for
initiative to determine the order in which they act. The
higher the result of its roll, the earlier a creature gets to act.
Initiative and combat are described in Chapter 9.
Level
A level is a number that measures something’s overall
power. Player characters have a level, ranging from 1st
to 20th, representing their level of experience. Monsters,
NPCs, hazards, diseases, and poisons have levels ranging
from –1 to 30 that measure the danger they pose. An item’s
level, usually within the range of 0 to 20 but sometimes
higher, indicates its power and suitability as treasure.
Spells have levels ranging from 1st to 10th, which
measure their power; characters and monsters can usually
cast only a certain number of spells of any given level.
Nonplayer Character (NPC)
A nonplayer character, controlled by the GM, interacts
with players and helps advance the story.
Perception
Perception measures your character’s ability to notice
hidden objects or unusual situations, and it usually
determines how quickly the character springs into action
in combat. It is described in full in Chapter 9.
Player Character (PC)
This is a character created and controlled by a player.
Proficiency
Proficiency is a system that measures a character’s aptitude
at a specific task or quality, and it has five ranks: untrained,
trained, expert, master, and legendary. Proficiency gives
you a bonus that’s added when determining the following
modifiers and statistics: AC, attack rolls, Perception, saving
throws, skills, and the effectiveness of spells. If you’re
untrained, your proficiency bonus is +0. If you’re trained,
expert, master, or legendary, your proficiency bonus equals
your level plus 2, 4, 6, or 8, respectively.
Rarity
Some elements of the game have a rarity to denote how
often they’re encountered in the game world. Rarity
primarily applies to equipment and magic items, but
spells, feats, and other rules elements also have a rarity.
If no rarity appears in the traits of an item, spell, or other
game element, it is of common rarity. Uncommon items are
available only to those who have special training, grew up
in a certain culture, or come from a particular part of the
world. Rare items are almost impossible to find and are
usually given out only by the GM, while unique ones are
literally one-of-a-kind in the game. The GM might alter the
way rarity works or change the rarity of individual items
to suit the story they want to tell.
Roleplaying
Describing a character’s actions, often while acting from
the perspective of the character, is called roleplaying. When
a player speaks or describes action from the perspective of
a character, they are “in character.”
Round
A round is a period of time during an encounter in which
all participants get a chance to act. A round represents
approximately 6 seconds in game time.
Saving Throw (Save)
When a creature is subject to a dangerous effect that must
be avoided, it attempts a saving throw to mitigate the effect.
You attempt a saving throw automatically—you don’t
have to use an action or a reaction. Unlike for most checks,
the character who isn’t acting rolls the d20 for a saving
throw, and the creature who is acting provides the DC.
There are three types of saving throws: Fortitude (to
resist diseases, poisons, and physical effects), Reflex (to
evade effects a character could quickly dodge), and Will
(to resist effects that target the mind and personality).
Skill
A skill represents a creature’s ability to perform certain
tasks that require instruction or practice. Skills are fully
described in Chapter 4. Each skill includes ways anyone
can use that skill even if untrained, as well as uses that
require a character to be trained in the skill.
Speed
Speed is the distance a character can move using a single
action, measured in feet.
Spell
Spells are magical effects created by performing mystical
incantations and gestures known only to those with special
training or inborn abilities. Casting a spell is an activity
that usually uses two actions. Each spell specifies what it
targets, the actions needed to cast it, its effects, and how
it can be resisted. If a class grants spells, the basics of that
ability are provided in the class description in Chapter 3,
while the spells themselves are detailed in Chapter 7.
Trait
A trait is a keyword that conveys additional information
about a rules element, such as a school of magic or rarity.
Often, a trait indicates how other rules interact with an
ability, creature, item, or another rules element that has
that trait. All the traits used in this book appear in the
Glossary and Index beginning on page 628.
Turn
During the course of a round, each creature takes a single
turn according to initiative. A creature can typically use
up to three actions during its turn.
Introduction
1
13
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Skills
Feats
Equipment
Spells
The Age of
Lost OMENS
Playing the
Game
Game
mastering
Crafting
& Treasure
Appendix
