The target must attempt a Will saving throw. Regardless of
the result of that save, the target is then temporarily immune
for 10 minutes. Warp mind’s effects happen instantly, so dispel
magic and other effects that counteract spells can’t counteract
them. However, alter reality, miracle, primal phenomenon,
restoration, or wish can still counteract the effects.
Critical Success The target is unaffected.
Success The target spends the first action on its next turn
with the confused condition.
Failure The target is confused for 1 minute.
Critical Failure The target is confused permanently.
WATER BREATHING
SPELL 2
TRANSMUTATION
Traditions arcane, divine, primal
Cast 1 minute (somatic, verbal)
Range 30 feet; Targets up to 5 creatures
Duration 1 hour
The targets can breathe underwater.
Heightened (3rd) The duration increases to 8 hours.
Heightened (4th) The duration increases to until your next
daily preparations.
WATER WALK
SPELL 2
TRANSMUTATION
Traditions arcane, divine, primal
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal
Range touch; Targets 1 creature
Duration 10 minutes
The target can walk on the surface of water and other liquids
without falling through. It can go underwater if it wishes, but
in that case it must Swim normally. This spell doesn’t grant the
ability to breathe underwater.
Heightened (4th) The spell’s range increases to 30 feet, the
duration increases to 1 hour, and you can target up to 10 creatures.
WEAPON OF JUDGMENT
SPELL 9
EVOCATION
FORCE
Traditions divine
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal; Requirements You have a deity.
Range 100 feet; Targets 1 creature
Duration 1 minute
An immense weapon of force appears, hovering in the air above
the target. The weapon has the ghostly visual appearance of
your deity’s favored weapon. Name war or peace when you
cast this spell.
If you name “war,” mentally choose one creature. This must
be a creature both you and the target can see. The target
instinctively knows which creature this is. At the end of each
of the target’s turns, if the target did not use a hostile action
against the creature you chose during that turn, the weapon
Strikes the target.
If you name “peace,” mentally choose up to five allies. The
target instinctively knows who those allies are. The weapon
Strikes the target each time the target uses a hostile action
against you or one of your allies. The weapon Strikes only
once per action, even if the action targets multiple allies (such
as for a fireball or a Whirlwind Strike).
Strikes with the weapon are melee weapon attacks, but they
use your spell attack modifier. Regardless of its appearance,
the weapon deals force damage equal to 3d10 plus your
spellcasting ability modifier. The weapon takes a multiple
attack penalty, which increases throughout the target’s turn,
but its penalty is separate from yours.
When the weapon Strikes, you can deal damage of the
normal damage type of the weapon instead of force damage
(or any of the available damage types, for a versatile weapon).
No other statistics or attributes of the weapon apply, and even
a ranged weapon attacks adjacent creatures only. A weapon of
judgment is a weapon for the purposes of triggers, resistances,
and so forth.
The weapon doesn’t take up space, grant flanking, or have
any other attributes a creature would. The weapon can’t make
any attack other than its Strike, and feats or spells that affect
weapons do not apply to this weapon.
Heightened (10th) The force damage increases by 1d10.
WEAPON STORM
SPELL 4
EVOCATION
Traditions arcane, primal
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal
Area 30-foot cone or 10-foot emanation
Saving Throw Reflex
You swing a weapon you’re holding, and the weapon magically
multiplies into duplicates that swipe at all creatures in either
a cone or an emanation. This flurry deals four dice of damage
to creatures in the area. This damage has the same type as
the weapon and uses the same die size. Determine the die size
as if you were attacking with the weapon; for instance, if you
were wielding a two-hand weapon in both hands, you’d use its
two-hand damage die.
Critical Success The creature is unaffected.
Success The target takes half damage.
Failure The target takes full damage.
Critical Failure The target takes double damage and is subject
to the weapon’s critical specialization effect.
Heightened (+1) Add another damage die.
WEB
SPELL 2
CONJURATION
Traditions arcane, primal
Cast [three-actions] material, somatic, verbal
Range 30 feet; Area 10-foot burst
Duration 1 minute
You create a sticky web in the area that impedes creatures’
movement each time they try to move through it. Squares
filled with the web are difficult terrain. Each square can be
cleared of the web by a single attack or effect that deals at
least 5 slashing damage or 1 fire damage. A square has AC 5,
and it automatically fails its saving throws.
Each time a creature in the web begins to use a move action
or enters the web during a move action, it must attempt an
Core Rulebook
384
