Diplomacy or Deception. As with other encounters, a
character’s approach to the conflict determines which
skill they’ll roll. On a character’s turn, they typically get
to attempt one roll, usually by using a skill action. Let
the player roleplay what their character says and does,
then determine what they’ll roll. Allow them to use any
abilities or spells that might help them make their case,
though keep in mind that when most people see the visual
signs of a spell being cast, they think someone is using
magic to try to influence or harm them, and they have a
negative reaction.
Good social encounters include an opposition.
This can be direct, such as a rival who argues against
the characters’ case, or passive, such as a mob that
automatically becomes more unruly as each round
passes. Give the opposition one or more positions in the
initiative order so you can convey what it is doing. You
can create game statistics for the opposition, especially if
it’s an individual, but in situations like that of the unruly
mob, you might need nothing more than establish a set
of increasingly difficult DCs.
Measuring Success and Progress
You’ll need to decide how to measure the characters’
success in social encounters, because there’s no AC
to target or HP to whittle down. Chapter 4 includes
guidance on setting DCs for social skill actions, often
using a target’s Will DC. If you need a DC for people who
don’t have stats, such as a crowd or an NPC for whom
you haven’t already generated statistics, use the guidelines
on setting DCs, found on page 503. You can either pick a
simple DC or use a level-based DC, estimating a level for
the subject or how challenging it should be to sway them.
The attitude conditions—hostile, unfriendly, indifferent,
friendly, and helpful—provide a useful way to track the
progress of a social encounter. Use these to represent
the attitude of an authority, a crowd, a jury, or the like.
A typical goal for a social encounter is to change the
attitude of a person or group to helpful so they assist you,
or calming a hostile group or person to defuse a situation.
Try to give the players a clear idea of how much they’ve
progressed as the encounter proceeds.
Another option is to track the number of successes
or failures the characters accrue. For instance, you
might need to trick four guards into leaving their posts,
and count each successful attempt to Lie or Create a
Diversion toward a total of four necessary successes.
You can combine these two methods; if the PCs need a
group of important nobles to vote their way, the goal of
the encounter might be to ensure that a majority of the
nobles have a better attitude toward the PCs than they
have of a rival—all within a limited time frame.
GAME MASTERING
495
10
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Skills
Feats
Equipment
Spells
The Age of
Lost OMENS
Playing the
Game
Game
mastering
Crafting
& Treasure
Appendix
