When a creature enters the area for the first time, it must
attempt a Will saving throw. If a creature leaves and reenters,
it uses the results of its original save.
Critical Success The creature is unaffected and temporarily
immune for 1 hour.
Success The creature is fascinated with you for its next action,
then is temporarily immune for 1 hour.
Failure The creature is fascinated with you.
Critical Failure The creature is fascinated with you, and its
attitude toward you improves by one step.
Heightened (+1) Increase the size of the emanation by 15 feet.
CHARMING TOUCH
FOCUS 1
UNCOMMON
CLERIC
EMOTION
ENCHANTMENT
INCAPACITATION
MENTAL
Domain passion
Cast [one-action] somatic
Range touch; Targets 1 humanoid creature that could find you
attractive
Saving Throw Will; Duration 10 minutes
You infuse your target with attraction, causing it to act
friendlier toward you. The target attempts a Will save. It gains
a +4 circumstance bonus to this save if you or your allies
recently threatened or were hostile to it.
Critical Success The target is unaffected and aware you tried
to charm it.
Success The target is unaffected but thinks your spell was
something harmless instead of charming touch, unless it
identifies the spell (usually with Identify Magic).
Failure The target’s attitude becomes friendly toward you. If it
was friendly, it becomes helpful. It can’t use hostile actions
against you.
Critical Failure The target is helpful and can’t use hostile
actions against you.
You can Dismiss the spell. If you use hostile actions against the
target, the spell ends. After the spell ends, the target doesn’t
necessarily realize it was charmed unless its friendship with
you or the actions you convinced it to take clash with its
expectations, which could potentially allow you to convince
the target to continue being your friend via mundane means.
Heightened (4th) You can target any type of creature, not just
humanoids, as long as it could find you attractive.
CLOAK OF SHADOW
FOCUS 1
UNCOMMON
CLERIC
DARKNESS
EVOCATION
SHADOW
Domain darkness
Cast [one-action] somatic
Range touch; Targets 1 willing creature
Duration 1 minute
You drape the target in a mantle of swirling shadows that
make it harder to see. The cloak reduces bright light within
a 20-foot emanation to dim light. This is a form of magical
darkness and can therefore overcome non-magical light or
attempt to counteract magical light as described on page 458.
The target can use concealed condition gained from the
shadows to Hide, though observant creatures can still follow
the moving aura of shadow, making it difficult for the target
to become completely undetected. The target can use an
Interact action to remove the cloak and leave it behind as a
decoy, where it remains, reducing light for the rest of the spell’s
duration. If anyone picks up the cloak after it’s been removed
by the original target, the cloak evaporates and the spell ends.
COMMANDING LASH
FOCUS 4
UNCOMMON
CLERIC
ENCHANTMENT
INCAPACITATION
MENTAL
Domain tyranny
Cast [one-action] verbal
Requirements Your most recent action dealt damage to a
target.
Range 100 feet; Targets A creature you dealt damage to on
your most recent action.
Saving Throw Will; Duration until the end of the target’s next turn
With the threat of more pain, you compel a creature you’ve
recently harmed. You issue a command to the target, with the
effects of the spell command.
COMPETITIVE EDGE
FOCUS 4
UNCOMMON
CLERIC
EMOTION
ENCHANTMENT
MENTAL
Domain ambition
Cast [one-action] verbal
Duration sustained up to 1 minute
Your competitiveness drives you to prove yourself against
the opposition. You gain a +1 status bonus to attack rolls and
skill checks. If an enemy within 20 feet critically succeeds at
an attack roll or skill check, your status bonus increases to
+3 attack rolls or that specific skill check (whichever the foe
critically succeeded at) for 1 round.
Heightened (7th) Increase the base bonus to +2 and the
increased bonus after an enemy critically succeeds to +4.
CRY OF DESTRUCTION
FOCUS 1
UNCOMMON
CLERIC
EVOCATION
SONIC
Domain destruction
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal
Area 15-foot cone
Saving Throw basic Fortitude
Your voice booms, smashing what’s in front of you. Each creature
and unattended object in the area takes 1d8 sonic damage. If
you already dealt damage to an enemy this turn with a Strike or
spell, increase the damage dice from this spell to d12s.
Heightened (+1) The damage increases by 1d8.
DARKENED EYES
FOCUS 4
UNCOMMON
CLERIC
DARKNESS
TRANSMUTATION
Domain darkness
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal
Range 60 feet; Targets 1 creature
Saving Throw Fortitude; Duration varies
You infuse a creature’s vision with darkness. After attempting
its save, the target becomes temporarily immune for 24 hours.
Critical Success The target is unaffected.
Success The target’s darkvision or low-light vision is suppressed
for 1 round.
Core Rulebook
390
