Class Features
You gain these abilities as a rogue. Abilities gained at
higher levels list the level at which you gain them next to
the features’ names.
Ancestry and Background
In addition to what you get from your class at 1st level,
you have the benefits of your selected ancestry and
background, as described in Chapter 2.
Initial Proficiencies
At 1st level, you gain a number of proficiencies that
represent your basic training. These proficiencies are
noted at the start of this class.
Rogue’s Racket
As you started on the path of the rogue, you began to
develop your own style to pursue your illicit activities.
Your racket shapes your rogue techniques and the way
you approach a job, while building your reputation in the
criminal underworld for a certain type of work. A client
with deep pockets might even hire a team of rogues for a
particular heist, each specializing in a different racket, in
order to cover all the bases. Choose a rogue’s racket. The
rackets presented in this book are as follows.
Ruffian
You prefer to strong-arm or intimidate others rather than
rely on finesse or fancy tricks. You might be an enforcer for
organized crime, a highway bandit, or a noble who bullies
others with threats of your family’s power. Or, you might
use your skills on the up and up, in a private security detail
or as a guard in a city with the right temperament.
You use whatever tools you have at hand to get the job
done. You can deal sneak attack damage with any simple
weapon, in addition to the weapons listed in the sneak
attack class feature. When you critically succeed at an
attack roll using a simple weapon and the target has the
flat-footed condition (unable to focus on defending itself),
you also apply the critical specialization effect for the
weapon you’re wielding (page 283). You don’t gain these
benefits if the weapon has a damage die larger than d8
(after applying any abilities that alter its damage die size).
You’re trained in Intimidation and medium armor. You
can choose Strength as your key ability score. When you
gain light armor expertise, you also gain expert proficiency
in medium armor, and when you gain light armor mastery,
you also gain master proficiency in medium armor.
Scoundrel
You use fast-talking, flattery, and a silver tongue to avoid
danger and escape tricky situations. You might be a grifter
or con artist, traveling from place to place with a new story
or scheme. Your racket is also ideal for certain reputable
professions, like barrister, diplomat, or politician.
When you successfully Feint (page 246), the target is
flat-footed against melee attacks you attempt against it
until the end of your next turn. On a critical success, the
target is flat-footed against all melee attacks until the end
of your next turn, not just yours.
You’re trained in Deception and Diplomacy. You can
choose Charisma as your key ability score.
Thief
Nothing beats the thrill of taking something that belongs
to someone else, especially if you can do so completely
unnoticed. You might be a pickpocket working the streets,
a cat burglar sneaking through windows and escaping via
rooftops, or a safecracker breaking into carefully guarded
vaults. You might even work as a consultant, testing
clients’ defenses by trying to steal something precious.
When a fight breaks out, you prefer swift, lightweight
weapons, and you strike where it hurts. When you attack
with a finesse melee weapon, you can add your Dexterity
modifier to damage rolls instead of your Strength modifier.
You are trained in Thievery.
TABLE 3–15: ROGUE ADVANCEMENT
Your
Level
Class Features
1
Ancestry and background, initial proficiencies,

rogue’s racket, sneak attack 1d6, surprise attack,

rogue feat, skill feat
2
Rogue feat, skill feat, skill increase
3
Deny advantage, general feat, skill feat, skill increase
4
Rogue feat, skill feat, skill increase
5
Ability boosts, ancestry feat, skill feat, skill

increase, sneak attack 2d6, weapon tricks
6
Rogue feat, skill feat, skill increase
7
Evasion, general feat, skill feat, skill increase,

vigilant senses, weapon specialization
8
Rogue feat, skill feat, skill increase
9
Ancestry feat, debilitating strike, great fortitude,

skill feat, skill increase
10
Ability boosts, rogue feat, skill feat, skill increase
11
General feat, rogue expertise, skill feat, skill

increase, sneak attack 3d6
12
Rogue feat, skill feat, skill increase
13
Ancestry feat, improved evasion, incredible senses,

light armor expertise, master tricks, skill feat,

skill increase
14
Rogue feat, skill feat, skill increase
15
Ability boosts, double debilitation, general feat,

greater weapon specialization, skill feat, skill increase
16
Rogue feat, skill feat, skill increase
17
Ancestry feat, skill feat, skill increase, slippery

mind, sneak attack 4d6
18
Rogue feat, skill feat, skill increase
19
General feat, light armor mastery, master strike,

skill feat, skill increase
20
Ability boosts, rogue feat, skill feat, skill increase
Core Rulebook
180
