Slopes
Slopes vary from the gentle rises of normal terrain
to difficult terrain and inclines, depending on the
angle of elevation. Moving down a slope is typically
normal terrain, but characters might need to Climb up
particularly steep slopes.
Undergrowth
Light undergrowth is common in mountains. It is difficult
terrain and allows a character to Take Cover.
Plains
The plains environment encompasses grasslands such as
savannas and farmland. The most common disasters in
plains are tornadoes and wildfires.
Hedges
Hedges are planted rows of bushes, shrubs, and trees.
Their iconic appearance in adventures consists of tall
hedges grown into mazes. A typical hedge is 2 to 5 feet
tall, takes up a row of squares, and provides cover. A
character trying to push through a hedge faces greater
difficult terrain; it’s sometimes faster to Climb over.
Undergrowth
Light undergrowth is difficult terrain that allows a
character to Take Cover. Heavy undergrowth is greater
difficult terrain that provides cover automatically.
Undergrowth in plains is usually light with a few scattered
areas of heavy undergrowth, but fields of certain crops,
like corn, are entirely heavy undergrowth.
Swamp
Wetlands are the most common kind of swamp, but
this category also includes drier marshes such as moors.
Swamps often contain quicksand hazards (page  526).
Despite their soggy nature, swamps aren’t very likely
to experience heavy flooding, since they act as natural
sponges and absorb a great deal of water before
they flood.
Bogs
Also called mires, bogs are watery areas that accumulate
peat, are covered by shrubs and moss, and sometimes
feature floating islands of vegetation covering deeper pools.
Shallow bogs are difficult terrain for a Medium creature,
and deep bogs are greater difficult terrain. If a bog is deep
enough that a creature can’t reach the bottom, the creature
has to Swim. Bogs are also acidic, so particularly extreme
or magical bogs can be hazardous terrain.
Undergrowth
Light undergrowth is difficult terrain that allows a
character to Take Cover, while heavy undergrowth is
greater difficult terrain that provides cover automatically.
Some sorts of undergrowth, such as thorns, are also
hazardous terrain, and areas with plenty of twisting roots
are uneven ground.
Urban
Urban environments include open city spaces as well as
buildings. The building information in this section also
applies to ruins and constructed dungeons. Depending on
their construction and location, cities might be vulnerable
to many sorts of disasters, especially fires and floods.
Crowds
Crowded thoroughfares and similar areas are difficult
terrain, or greater difficult terrain if an area is truly packed
with people. You might allow a character to get a crowd to
part using Diplomacy, Intimidation, or Performance.
A crowd exposed to an obvious danger, like a fire or
a rampaging monster, attempts to move away from the
danger as quickly as possible, but it is slowed by its own
mass. A fleeing crowd typically moves at the Speed of an
average member each round (usually 25 feet), potentially
trampling or leaving behind slower-moving members of
the crowd.
TERRAIN RULES
Environments make frequent use of the rules for difficult
terrain, greater difficult terrain, and hazardous terrain, so
those rules are summarized here.
Difficult terrain is any terrain that impedes movement,
ranging from particularly rough or unstable surfaces to
thick ground cover and countless other impediments.
Moving into a square of difficult terrain (or moving 5
feet into or within an area of difficult terrain, if you’re
not using a grid) costs an extra 5 feet of movement.
Moving into a square of greater difficult terrain instead
costs 10 additional feet of movement. This additional
cost is not increased when moving diagonally. Creatures
can’t normally Step into difficult terrain.
Any movement creatures make while jumping
ignores terrain that the creature is jumping over.
Some abilities (such as flight or being incorporeal)
allow creatures to avoid the movement reduction from
some types of difficult terrain. Certain other abilities
let creatures ignore difficult terrain while traveling on
foot; such an ability also allows a creature to move
through greater difficult terrain using the movement
cost for difficult terrain, but unless the ability
specifies otherwise, these abilities don’t let creatures
ignore greater difficult terrain.
Hazardous terrain damages creatures whenever
they move through it. For instance, an acid pool, a pit
of burning embers, and a spike-filled passageway all
constitute hazardous terrain. The amount and type of
damage depend on the specific hazardous terrain.
Core Rulebook
514
