POISONED DART GALLERY
HAZARD 8
COMPLEX
MECHANICAL
TRAP
Stealth +16 (expert) or DC 31 (master) to notice the control panel
Description Countless holes to launch poison darts from line a
long hallway with a hidden control panel on the far end.
Disable Thievery DC 21 (expert) on the control panel
deactivates the trap.
AC 27; Fort +13, Ref +17
Hardness 14; HP 56 (BT 28) to destroy the control panel and
disable the trap; Immunities critical hits, object immunities,
precision damage
Dart Volley [reaction] (attack); Trigger A creature enters the hallway
or ends its turn in the hallway. Effect The trap makes a
poisoned dart Strike against the triggering creature, then
rolls initiative.
Routine (1 action) The trap launches one dart against every
creature in the gallery as 1 action. Because it launches darts
continuously, the trap can also use the Continuous Barrage
free action (see below) to launch darts at each creature during
that creature’s turn.
Ranged poisoned dart +21, Damage 3d4 piercing plus flesset
poison; no multiple attack penalty
Continuous Barrage [free-action] Trigger A creature within the active
gallery finishes an action. Effect The trap makes a poisoned
dart Strike against the triggering creature.
Flesset Poison (poison); Saving Throw DC 22 Fortitude;
Maximum Duration 6 rounds; Stage 1 1d6 poison damage and
clumsy 1 (1 round); Stage 2 2d6 poison damage and clumsy 2
(1 round); Stage 3 3d6 poison damage and clumsy 3 (1 round)
Reset The trap deactivates and resets after 1 minute.
LAVA FLUME TUBE
HAZARD 10
COMPLEX
MECHANICAL
TRAP
Stealth +19 (trained)
Description Four gated channels carved into stone allow lava
to flow into a 15-foot-tall room; the floor can withdraw to allow
the hardened lava to fall into a chamber beneath.
Disable Thievery DC 29 (expert) to block a channel, or Thievery
DC 31 (master) to release the floor latch and escape to the
chamber below
AC 30; Fort +20, Ref +16
Channel Hardness 12, Channel HP 48 (BT 24) to destroy a
channel gate (this prevents that channel from being disabled
and stops the trap from resetting); Floor Hardness 18; Floor
HP 72 (BT 36); Immunities critical hits, object immunities,
precision damage
Flume Activation [reaction] Trigger A creature tries to leave the room.
Effect The exits seal instantly and the trap rolls initiative.
Routine (4 actions) The trap loses 1 action per disabled
channel each turn. On each action, a different channel spews
lava, dealing 4d6 fire damage to each creature within 10 feet
of the channel (DC 27 basic Reflex save), and increasing the
depth of the lava in the room by 1 foot (4 feet per round if all
the channels are active).
A creature that starts its turn in lava takes 8d6 fire damage
and is immobilized until it Escapes the hardening lava (DC 27).
The creature might suffocate if covered in lava (page 478). Lava
from the previous round hardens fully at the start of the trap’s
turn, effectively raising the floor of the room. Once the room is
full of lava, the trap stops taking actions, but creatures in the
room remain stuck until the floor opens and the trap resets.
Reset The trap deactivates and resets after 1 hour by withdrawing
the floor, cracking and dumping the hardened lava (and any
creatures trapped inside) into the chamber. Creatures fall 40
feet, taking falling damage (typically 17 bludgeoning damage).
TELEKINETIC SWARM TRAP
HAZARD 12
COMPLEX
MAGICAL
MECHANICAL
TRAP
Stealth +24 (expert)
Description Three innocuous decorations instilled with
telekinetic magic pull objects and pieces of the room itself into
spinning clouds of debris that attack all creatures in the room.
Disable Thievery DC 27 (expert) to take apart a telekinetic
cloud, Thievery DC 32 (master) to disable each telekinetic
decoration, or dispel magic (6th level; counteract DC 30) to
counteract each telekinetic decoration
AC 33; Fort +24, Ref +19
Hardness 22, HP 88 (BT 44) per telekinetic cloud
Agitate [reaction] (arcane, evocation); Trigger A creature stays in the
room for at least 6 seconds. Effect Each telekinetic decoration
constructs a cloud of objects in the room (three clouds total)
and the trap rolls initiative. The creatures in the room when
the trap is triggered become the trap’s targets, regardless of
whether they leave the room or other creatures later enter
the room. Each decoration targets a different creature if
possible. A target creature that moves at least 1 mile from
the trap ceases being a target, at which point the decoration
designates a new target.
Routine (9 actions) Each decoration uses 3 of the trap’s
actions each turn, and the trap loses 3 actions each turn for
every decoration that is disabled. A decoration uses its first
action to move its cloud of objects up to 200 feet, its second
action to make the objects Strike, and its third action to add
more objects to the cloud, increasing its damage by 1d12 (to
a maximum of 4d12+10). If a decoration’s cloud is already at
maximum damage, it does nothing with its third action.
If a decoration’s cloud has been destroyed, the decoration
instead spends its first action to create a new cloud of objects
inside the room (using the starting damage value) and then its
second and third actions to have the cloud move and attack.
Melee [one-action] objects +24, Damage 2d12+10 bludgeoning
Reset The trap deactivates and resets 10 minutes after it has
no target creatures (because the creatures either moved too
far away or died).
DARKSIDE MIRROR
HAZARD 14
COMPLEX
MAGICAL
MECHANICAL
TRAP
Stealth +24 (master) to notice it isn’t a regular mirror
Description A magic mirror replaces characters with evil
mirror duplicates from another dimension.
Disable Thievery DC 34 (legendary) to retrieve a creature
from the other dimension within 10 minutes of the switch
Core Rulebook
528
