Razortooth Goblin
Your family’s teeth are formidable weapons. You gain
a jaws unarmed attack that deals 1d6 piercing damage.
Your jaws are in the brawling group and have the finesse
and unarmed traits.
Snow Goblin
You are acclimated to living in frigid lands and have
skin ranging from sky blue to navy in color, as well as
blue fur. You gain cold resistance equal to half your level
(minimum 1). You treat environmental cold effects as if
they were one step less extreme (incredible cold becomes
extreme, extreme cold becomes severe, and so on).
Unbreakable Goblin
You’re able to bounce back from injuries easily due to an
exceptionally thick skull, cartilaginous bones, or some
other mixed blessing. You gain 10 Hit Points from your
ancestry instead of 6. When you fall, reduce the falling
damage you take as though you had fallen half the distance.
Ancestry Feats
At 1st level, you gain one ancestry feat, and you gain an
additional ancestry feat every 4 levels thereafter (at 5th,
9th, 13th, and 17th level). As a goblin, you can select
from the following ancestry feats.
1ST LEVEL
BURN IT!
FEAT 1
GOBLIN
Fire fascinates you. Your spells and alchemical items that deal
fire damage gain a status bonus to damage equal to half the
spell’s level or one-quarter the item’s level (minimum 1). You also
gain a +1 status bonus to any persistent fire damage you deal.
CITY SCAVENGER
FEAT 1
GOBLIN
You know that the greatest treasures often look like refuse, and
you scoff at those who throw away perfectly good scraps. You
gain a +1 circumstance bonus to checks to Subsist, and you can
use Society or Survival when you Subsist in a settlement.
When you Subsist in a city, you also gather valuable junk
that silly longshanks threw away. You can Earn Income using
Society or Survival in the same time as you Subsist, without
spending any additional days of downtime. You also gain a +1
circumstance bonus to this check.
Special If you have the irongut goblin heritage, increase the
bonuses to +2.
GOBLIN LORE
FEAT 1
GOBLIN
You’ve picked up skills and tales from your goblin community.
You gain the trained proficiency rank in Nature and Stealth.
If  you would automatically become trained in one of those
skills (from your background or class, for example), you instead
become trained in a skill of your choice. You also become trained
in Goblin Lore.
GOBLIN SCUTTLE [reaction]
FEAT 1
GOBLIN
Trigger An ally ends a move action adjacent to you.
You take advantage of your ally’s movement to adjust your
position. You Step.
GOBLIN SONG[ [one-action]
FEAT 1
GOBLIN
You sing annoying goblin songs, distracting your foes with
silly and repetitive lyrics. Attempt a Performance check
against the Will DC of a single enemy within 30 feet. This has
all the usual traits and restrictions of a Performance check.
You can affect up to two targets within range if you have
expert proficiency in Performance, four if you have master
proficiency, and eight if you have legendary proficiency.
Critical Success The target takes a –1 status penalty to
Perception checks and Will saves for 1 minute.
Success The target takes a –1 status penalty to Perception
checks and Will saves for 1 round.
Critical Failure The target is temporarily immune to attempts
to use Goblin Song for 1 hour.
GOBLIN WEAPON FAMILIARITY
FEAT 1
GOBLIN
Others might look upon them with disdain, but you know that
the weapons of your people are as effective as they are sharp.
You are trained with the dogslicer and horsechopper.
In addition, you gain access to all uncommon goblin weapons.
For the purpose of determining your proficiency, martial goblin
weapons are simple weapons and advanced goblin weapons are
martial weapons.
JUNK TINKER
FEAT 1
GOBLIN
You can make useful tools out of even twisted or rusted scraps.
When using the Crafting skill to Craft, you can make level 0
items, including weapons but not armor, out of junk. This reduces
the Price to one-quarter the usual amount but always results in a
shoddy item. Shoddy items normally give a penalty, but you don’t
take this penalty when using shoddy items you made.
You can also incorporate junk to save money while you Craft
any item. This grants you a discount on the item as if you had
spent 1 additional day working to reduce the cost, but the item
is obviously made of junk. At the GM’s discretion, this might
affect the item’s resale value depending on the buyer’s tastes.
ROUGH RIDER
FEAT 1
GOBLIN
You are especially good at riding traditional goblin mounts. You
gain the Ride feat, even if you don’t meet the prerequisites.
You gain a +1 circumstance bonus to Nature checks to use
Core Rulebook
48
