Skill Checks and Skill DCs
When you’re actively using a skill, often by performing
one of its actions, you might attempt a skill check: rolling
a d20 and adding your skill modifier. To determine this
modifier, add your ability modifier for the skill’s key ability,
your proficiency bonus for the skill, and any other bonuses
and penalties.
Skill modifier = modifier of the skill’s key ability
score + proficiency bonus + other bonuses + penalties
When writing down the modifier on your character
sheet, you should write down only the numbers that always
apply—typically just your ability modifier and proficiency
bonus at 1st level. At higher levels, you may wear or use
items to improve your skills with item bonuses pretty much
all the time; you should write those down, too.
The GM sets the DC of a skill check, using the guidelines
in Chapter 10: Game Mastering. The most important DCs
to remember are the five simple skill DCs below.

Task Difficulty
Simple DC

Untrained
10

Trained
15

Expert
20

Master
30

Legendary
40
When someone or something tests your skill, they
attempt a check against your skill DC, which is equal to 10
plus your skill modifier. A skill DC works like any other DC
to determine the effect of an opposing creature’s skill action.
See page 444 in Chapter 9: Playing the Game for more
information about modifiers, bonuses, and penalties.
Armor and Skills
Some armor imposes a penalty on specific skill checks and
DCs. If a creature is wearing armor that imparts a skill
penalty, that penalty is applied to the creature’s Strength-
and Dexterity-based skill checks and skill DCs, unless the
action has the attack trait. Check penalties from armor are
detailed on page 274 in Chapter 6: Equipment.
Secret Checks
Sometimes you won’t know whether you succeed at a skill
check. If an action has the secret trait, the GM rolls the check
for you and informs you of the effect without revealing the
result of the roll or the degree of success. The GM rolls
secret checks when your knowledge about the outcome is
imperfect, like when you’re searching for a hidden creature
or object, attempting to deceive someone, translating a
tricky bit of ancient text, or remembering some piece of lore.
This way, you as the player don’t know things that your
character wouldn’t. This rule is the default for actions with
the secret trait, but the GM can choose not to use secret
checks if they would rather some or all rolls be public.
Exploration and Downtime Activities
Some skill activities have the exploration or downtime
trait. Exploration activities usually take a minute or more,
while downtime activities may take a day or more. They
usually can’t be used during an encounter, though the GM
might bend this restriction. If you’re not sure whether you
have the time to use one of these activities, ask your GM.
General Skill Actions
General skill actions are skill actions that can be used
with multiple different skills. When you use a general skill
action, you might use your modifier from any skill that lists
it as one of the skill’s actions, depending on the situation.
	 General Skill Action
Proficiency
Page

Decipher Writing
Trained
234

Earn Income
Trained
236

Identify Magic
Trained
238

Learn a Spell
Trained
238
	 Recall Knowledge [one-action]
Untrained
238

Subsist
Untrained
240
Decipher Writing (Trained)
When you encounter particularly archaic or esoteric texts,
the GM might require you to Decipher the Writing before
you can understand it. You must be trained in the relevant
skill to Decipher Writing. Arcana is typically used for
writing about magic or science, Occultism for esoteric texts
about mysteries and philosophy, Religion for scripture, and
Society for coded messages or archaic documents.
DECIPHER WRITING
CONCENTRATE
EXPLORATION
SECRET
You attempt to decipher complicated writing or literature on an
obscure topic. This usually takes 1 minute per page of text, but
might take longer (typically an hour per page for decrypting
ciphers or the like). The text must be in a language you can
read, though the GM might allow you to attempt to decipher
text written in an unfamiliar language using Society instead.
The DC is determined by the GM based on the state or
complexity of the document. The GM might have you roll one
check for a short text or a check for each section of a larger text.
Critical Success You understand the true meaning of the text.
Success You understand the true meaning of the text. If it was
a coded document, you know the general meaning but might
not have a word-for-word translation.
Failure You can’t understand the text and take a –2 circumstance
penalty to further checks to decipher it.
Critical Failure You believe you understand the text on that
page, but you have in fact misconstrued its message.
Sample Decipher Tasks
Trained entry-level philosophy treatise
Expert complex code, such as a cipher
Core Rulebook
234
