a +1 status bonus to saving throws to resist those same
magical effects for 1 week.
Success You free the target from all magical effects imprisoning
it, petrifying it, or putting it into stasis.
Failure You fail to free the target.
Critical Failure The magical effects imprisoning the target,
petrifying the target, or putting it into stasis affect you and
all secondary casters.
GEAS
RITUAL 3
UNCOMMON
CURSE
ENCHANTMENT
MENTAL
Cast 1 day; Secondary Casters 1
Primary Check Arcana (expert), Occultism (expert), or Religion
(expert); Secondary Checks Society or Legal Lore
Range 10 feet; Target 1 creature of a level no greater than
double the geas ritual’s level
Duration see text
You enforce a magic rule on a willing target, forcing it to
either perform or refrain from carrying out a certain act. A
geas to perform an act is usually conditional, such as, “Always
offer hospitality to strangers seeking a place to stay.” An
unconditional geas to perform a certain act doesn’t require the
target to perform that act exclusively, though it must prioritize
the task above all leisurely pursuits. The most common geas
to refrain from carrying out an act is a specification to avoid
violating a contract. In those cases, the secondary caster
usually takes charge of making sure the wording of the
contract is attuned correctly with the ritual’s magic. Because
the target is willing, geas can have a duration that lasts for
as long as the target agrees to. If the target is unable to fulfill
the geas, it becomes sickened 1, and the sickened condition
increases by 1 for each consecutive day it is prevented from
following the geas, to a maximum of sickened 4. The sickened
condition ends immediately when it follows the geas again; it
can’t remove the sickened condition in any other way. Only
powerful magic such as a wish spell can remove the effects of
geas from a willing target.
Critical Success The geas succeeds, and the target receives a
+1 status bonus to skill checks that directly uphold the geas
(at the GM’s discretion).
Success The geas succeeds.
Failure The geas fails.
Critical Failure The geas fails, and you are instead affected
by the geas you were attempting to place on the target.
You are considered an unwilling target, so the geas can be
counteracted with a remove curse spell.
Heightened (5th) You can use geas on an unwilling creature;
it can attempt a Will save to negate the effect. If the target
fails this Will save, the geas lasts up to 1 week. A remove
curse spell can counteract a geas on an unwilling creature,
in addition to powerful magic such as a wish spell. A clever
unwilling creature can subvert the geas by contriving
situations that prevent it from complying, but in that case it
becomes sickened (as described above).
Heightened (7th) As 5th level, but the geas lasts for up to
1 year on an unwilling creature.
Heightened (9th) As 5th level, but the geas lasts for a duration
you choose (even unlimited) on an unwilling creature.
IMPRISONMENT
RITUAL 8
UNCOMMON
EVOCATION
Cast 1 day; Cost reagents to construct the magical prison
worth a total value of 800 gp × the target’s level; Secondary
Casters 6
Primary Check Arcana (legendary) or Occultism (legendary);
Secondary Checks Crafting, Society
Range 10 feet; Target 1 creature of up to 16th level
You perform a ritual to imprison a creature in one of
several forms. While some versions of this ritual offer all
of the forms, others include only a single form or only a
few of them. Whichever form you use, the effect can’t be
counteracted, though it can be ended by freedom. Some forms
of imprisonment can be ended by other means. Because the
ritual requires the target to remain within 10 feet at all times,
it typically requires you to subdue the target first.
•	 Chains You bind the creature with chains, rendering it
unable to use any actions other than to speak. Other
creatures that attempt to approach, harm the chains,
or free the trapped creature in any way must succeed
at a Will save or be unable to do so forever. The
chains have Hardness equal to 5 × the imprisonment
ritual’s spell level, and double that many Hit Points.
Destroying the chains frees the target.
•	 Prison You render the creature completely unable to
leave a particular confined area or structure of your
choice, such as a jail cell or sealed cave. The magic also
prevents the creature from damaging its prison, either
directly or indirectly, to break free. If the creature’s
prison is entirely destroyed by some external force,
the creature is freed, though for some larger or natural
prisons, this might be unfeasible.
•	 Slumber (sleep effect) You put the creature into an eternal
sleep. It ceases aging and doesn’t require food or drink. A
single sincere physical display of affection from a creature
who genuinely loves the target—whether romantically,
filially, or otherwise—frees it from the slumber. This form
of imprisonment is also enchantment magic.
•	 Temporal Stasis You send the creature into a state of
suspended animation outside the flow of time. The
creature doesn’t grow older and can’t be affected by any
effect from within the normal timestream. While casting
this ritual, you can optionally name any amount of time
for the stasis; after this duration elapses, the stasis ends.
Unlike other forms of imprisonment, temporal stasis can
be counteracted by a dispel magic or haste spell. This
form of imprisonment is also transmutation magic.
•	 Object (9th level or higher) You either shrink the creature
to an inch in height or transform it into an insubstantial
form whose body trails away into wisps below its head.
Either way, you trap it inside a gem, jar, bottle, lamp, or
similar container. The creature ceases aging and doesn’t
require food or drink. The creature is still aware of its
Core Rulebook
412
