book without having to spend the normal monetary cost in
alchemical reagents or needing to attempt a Crafting check.
This item has the infused trait, but it remains potent only until
the start of your next turn.
Formula Book
An alchemist keeps meticulous records of the formulas
for every item they can create. You start with a standard
formula book worth 10 sp or less (as detailed on page
290) for free. The formula book contains the formulas for
two common 1st-level alchemical items of your choice, in
addition to those you gained from Alchemical Crafting
and your research field. The catalog of alchemical items
begins on page 543.
Each time you gain a level, you can add the formulas
for two common alchemical items to your formula
book. These new formulas can be for any level of item
you can create. You learn these formulas automatically,
but it’s also possible to find or buy additional formulas
in settlements or from other alchemists, or to invent them
with the Inventor feat (page 262).
Research Field
Your inquiries into the alchemical nature of the universe
have led you to focus on a particular field of research.
You might have a degree from an scientific institute,
correspond with other researchers in your field, or work
as a genius loner. Choose a field of research. The research
fields presented in this book are as follows.
Bomber
You specialize in explosions and other violent
alchemical reactions. You start with the formulas
for two 1st-level alchemical bombs in your
formula book, in addition to your other formulas.
When throwing an alchemical bomb with the splash
trait, you can deal splash damage to only your
primary target instead of the usual splash area.
Chirurgeon
You concentrate on healing others with alchemy.
You start with the formulas for two of the
following in your formula book, in addition
to your other formulas: lesser antidote, lesser
antiplague, or lesser elixir of life.
As long as your proficiency rank in Medicine is trained
or better, you can attempt a Crafting check instead of
a Medicine check for any of Medicine’s untrained and
trained uses.
Mutagenist
You focus on bizarre mutagenic transformations
that sacrifice one aspect of a creature’s physical
or psychological being in order to strengthen another.
You start with the formulas for two 1st-level mutagens
in your formula book, in addition to your other formulas.
You can gain the benefit of any mutagen, even if
it wasn’t specifically brewed for you. Whenever your
proficiency rank for simple weapons increases, your
proficiency rank for unarmed attacks increases to the
same rank unless it’s already better.
Alchemist Feats
At 1st level and every even-numbered level thereafter,
you gain an alchemist class feat. Alchemist class feats are
described beginning on page 76.
Skill Feats 
2nd
At 2nd level and every 2 levels thereafter, you gain
a skill feat. Skill feats can be found in Chapter 5 and
have the skill trait. You must be trained or better in the
corresponding skill to select a skill feat.
General Feats 
3rd
At 3rd level and every 4 levels thereafter,
you gain a general feat. General feats are
listed in Chapter 5.
73
3
CLASSES
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Skills
Feats
Equipment
Spells
The Age of
Lost OMENS
Playing the
Game
Game
mastering
Crafting
& Treasure
Appendix
