Rock Dwarf
Your ancestors lived and worked among the great ancient
stones of the mountains or the depths of the earth. This
makes you solid as a rock when you plant your feet. You
gain a +2 circumstance bonus to your Fortitude or Reflex
DC against attempts to Shove or Trip you. This bonus
also applies to saving throws against spells or effects that
attempt to knock you prone.
In addition, if any effect would force you to move 10
feet or more, you are moved only half the distance.
Strong-Blooded Dwarf
Your blood runs hearty and strong, and you can shake
off toxins. You gain poison resistance equal to half your
level (minimum 1), and each of your successful saving
throws against a poison affliction reduces its stage by 2,
or by 1 for a virulent poison. Each critical success against
an ongoing poison reduces its stage by 3, or by 2 for a
virulent poison.
Ancestry Feats
At 1st level, you gain one ancestry feat, and you gain an
additional ancestry feat every 4 levels thereafter (at 5th,
9th, 13th, and 17th levels). As a dwarf, you select from
among the following ancestry feats.
1ST LEVEL
DWARVEN LORE
FEAT 1
DWARF
You eagerly absorbed the old stories and traditions of your
ancestors, your gods, and your people, studying in subjects
and techniques passed down for generation upon generation.
You gain the trained proficiency rank in Crafting and
Religion. If you would automatically become trained in one
of those skills (from your background or class, for example),
you instead become trained in a skill of your choice. You also
become trained in Dwarven Lore.
DWARVEN WEAPON FAMILIARITY
FEAT 1
DWARF
Your kin have instilled in you an affinity for hard-hitting
weapons, and you prefer these to more elegant arms. You are
trained with the battle axe, pick, and warhammer.
You also gain access to all uncommon dwarf weapons. For
the purpose of determining your proficiency, martial dwarf
weapons are simple weapons and advanced dwarf weapons
are martial weapons.
ROCK RUNNER
FEAT 1
DWARF
Your innate connection to stone makes you adept at moving
across uneven surfaces. You can ignore difficult terrain caused
by rubble and uneven ground made of stone and earth.
In addition, when you use the Acrobatics skill to Balance on
narrow surfaces or uneven ground made of stone or earth, you
aren’t flat-footed, and when you roll a success at one of these
Acrobatics checks, you get a critical success instead.
STONECUNNING
FEAT 1
DWARF
You have a knack for noticing even small inconsistencies and
craftsmanship techniques in the stonework around you. You
gain a +2 circumstance bonus to Perception checks to notice
unusual stonework. This bonus applies to checks to discover
mechanical traps made of stone or hidden within stone.
If you aren’t using the Seek action or searching, the GM
automatically rolls a secret check for you to notice unusual
stonework anyway. This check doesn’t gain the circumstance
bonus, and it takes a –2 circumstance penalty.
UNBURDENED IRON
FEAT 1
DWARF
You’ve learned techniques first devised by your ancestors
during their ancient wars, allowing you to comfortably wear
massive suits of armor. Ignore the reduction to your Speed
from any armor you wear.
In addition, any time you’re taking a penalty to your Speed
from some other reason (such as from the encumbered
condition or from a spell), deduct 5 feet from the penalty.
For example, the encumbered condition normally gives a
–10-foot penalty to Speed, but it gives you only a –5-foot
penalty. If your Speed is taking multiple penalties, pick only
one penalty to reduce.
VENGEFUL HATRED
FEAT 1
DWARF
You heart aches for vengeance against those who have
wronged your people. Choose one of the following dwarven
ancestral foes when you gain Vengeful Hatred: drow, duergar,
giant, or orc. You gain a +1 circumstance bonus to damage
with weapons and unarmed attacks against creatures with
that trait. If your attack would deal more than one weapon die
of damage (as is common at higher levels than 1st), the bonus
is equal to the number of weapon dice or unarmed attack dice.
In addition, if a creature critically succeeds at an attack
against you and deals damage to you, you gain your bonus
to damage against that creature for 1 minute regardless of
whether it has the chosen trait.
Special Your GM can add appropriate creature traits to the
ancestral foes list if your character is from a community that
commonly fights other types of enemies.
5TH LEVEL
BOULDER ROLL [two-actions]
FEAT 5
DWARF
Prerequisites Rock Runner
Your dwarven build allows you to push foes around, just like
Core Rulebook
36
