Success The target babbles incoherently and is stunned 1.
Failure The target is confused for 1 minute. It can attempt a
new save at the end of each of its turns to end the confusion.
Critical Failure The target is confused for 1 minute, with no
save to end early.
Heightened (8th) You can target up to 10 creatures.
CONTINGENCY
SPELL 7
ABJURATION
Traditions arcane
Cast 10 minutes (material, somatic, verbal)
Duration 24 hours
You prepare a spell that will trigger later. While casting
contingency, you also cast another spell of 4th level or lower
with a casting time of no more than 3 actions. This companion
spell must be one that can affect you. You must make any
decisions for the spell when you cast contingency, such as
choosing a damage type for resist energy. During the casting,
choose a trigger under which the spell will be cast, using the
same restrictions as for the trigger of a Ready action. Once
contingency is cast, you can cause the companion spell to
come into effect as a reaction with that trigger. It affects
only you, even if it would affect more creatures. If you define
complicated conditions, as determined by the GM, the trigger
might fail. If you cast contingency again, the newer casting
supersedes the older.
Heightened (8th) You can choose a spell of 5th level or lower.
Heightened (9th) You can choose a spell of 6th level or lower.
Heightened (10th) You can choose a spell of 7th level or lower.
CONTINUAL FLAME
SPELL 2
EVOCATION
LIGHT
Traditions arcane, divine, occult, primal
Cast [three-actions] material, somatic, verbal; Cost 6 gp of ruby dust
Range touch; Targets 1 object
Duration unlimited
A magical flame springs up from the object, as bright as a torch.
It doesn’t need oxygen, react to water, or generate heat.
Heightened (+1) The cost increases as follows: 16 gp for 3rd
level; 30 gp for 4th, 60 gp for 5th, 120 gp for 6th,; 270 gp for
7th, 540 gp for 8th, 1,350 gp for 9th, and 3,350 gp for 10th.
CONTROL WATER
SPELL 5
EVOCATION
WATER
Traditions arcane, primal
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal
Range 500 feet; Area 50 feet long by 50 feet wide
By imposing your will upon the water, you can raise or
lower the level of water in the chosen area by 10 feet. Water
creatures in the area are subjected to the effects of slow.
CREATE FOOD
SPELL 2
CONJURATION
Traditions arcane, divine, primal
Cast 1 hour (somatic, verbal)
Range 30 feet
You create enough food to feed six Medium creatures for a
day. This food is bland and unappealing, but it is nourishing.
After 1 day, if no one has eaten the food, it decays and
becomes inedible. Most Small creatures eat one-quarter as
much as a Medium creature (one-sixteenth as much for most
Tiny creatures), and most Large creatures eat 10 times as
much (100 times as much for Huge creatures and so on).
Heightened (4th) You can feed 12 Medium creatures.
Heightened (6th) You can feed 50 Medium creatures.
Heightened (8th) You can feed 200 Medium creatures.
CREATE WATER
SPELL 1
CONJURATION
WATER
Traditions arcane, divine, primal
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal
Range 0 feet
As you cup your hands, water begins to flow forth from them.
You create 2 gallons of water. If no one drinks it, it evaporates
after 1 day.
CREATION
SPELL 4
CONJURATION
Traditions arcane, primal
Cast 1 minute (material, somatic, verbal)
Range 0 feet
Duration 1 hour
You conjure a temporary object from eldritch energy. It must
be of vegetable matter (such as wood or paper) and 5 cubic
feet or smaller. It can’t rely on intricate artistry or complex
moving parts, never fulfills a cost or the like, and can’t be made
of precious materials or materials with a rarity of uncommon
or higher. It is obviously temporarily conjured, and thus can’t
be sold or passed off as a genuine item.
Heightened (5th) The item is metal and can include common
minerals, like feldspar or quartz.
CRISIS OF FAITH
SPELL 3
ENCHANTMENT
MENTAL
Traditions divine
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal
Range 30 feet; Targets 1 creature
Saving Throw Will
You assault the target’s faith, riddling the creature with
doubt and mental turmoil that deal 6d6 mental damage, or
6d8 mental damage if it can cast divine spells. The effects are
determined by its Will save.
Critical Success The target is unaffected.
Success The target takes half damage.
Failure The target takes full damage; if the target can cast
divine spells, it’s stupefied 1 for 1 round.
Critical Failure The target takes double damage, is stupefied 1
for 1 round, and can’t cast divine spells for 1 round.
To many deities, casting this spell on a follower of your own
deity without significant cause is anathema.
Heightened (+1) The damage increases by 2d6 (or by 2d8 if
the target is a divine spellcaster).
Core Rulebook
326
