barriers and ignores all cover, the target still benefits from
the flat check from being concealed or hidden. You still can’t
target an undetected creature without guessing.
After it is launched, the ammunition vanishes into mist.
However, in the dead of the night 1d4 days later, it reappears
in the last quiver or other container it was taken from.
PENETRATING AMMUNITION
ITEM 12
CONSUMABLE
 MAGICAL
 TRANSMUTATION
Price 400 gp
Ammunition arrow, bolt
Activate [one-action] Interact
This ammunition has a slender shape and a viciously pointed
tip. When you activate and shoot penetrating ammunition, the
Strike takes the shape of a 60-foot line originating from you.
Roll one attack roll and compare the result to the AC of each
target in the line. The ammunition ignores up to 10 of a target’s
resistance, and it can penetrate walls up to 1 foot thick with
Hardness 10 or less. Each target that takes damage from this
ammunition also takes 1d6 persistent bleed damage.
If your attack roll result is a natural 20, you improve your
degree of success only against the first target in the line, but
you can still score a critical hit on other targets if your result
exceeds their AC by 10 or more. If you have access to your bow’s
critical specialization effect, penetrating ammunition applies
that effect only against a target in the last square of the line.
SHINING AMMUNITION
ITEM 1
CONSUMABLE
 EVOCATION
 LIGHT
 MAGICAL
Price 3 gp
Ammunition any
A piece of shining ammunition gives off a faint glow. When
shot, this ammunition sheds bright light in a 20-foot radius
(and dim light to the next 20 feet) for 10 minutes. If it hits
a target, it sticks, causing the target to shed light in the
same radius. A creature can remove the ammunition with an
Interact action, but the ammunition itself continues to glow
for the rest of the duration or until destroyed.
SLEEP ARROW
ITEM 3
CONSUMABLE
 ENCHANTMENT
 MAGICAL
 MENTAL
 SLEEP
Price 11 gp
Ammunition arrow
Activate [one-action] Interact
Sleep arrows often have shafts of deep blue or black, and
their fletching is exceptionally soft and downy. An activated
sleep arrow deals no damage, but a living creature hit by it is
subject to the effects of a sleep spell (DC 17).
Craft Requirements Supply one casting of sleep.
SPELLSTRIKE AMMUNITION
ITEM 3+
CONSUMABLE
 MAGICAL
 TRANSMUTATION
Ammunition any
Activate [two-actions] Cast a Spell
Mystic patterns create a magic reservoir within this
ammunition. You activate spellstrike ammunition by Casting
a Spell into the ammunition. The spell must be of a spell level
the ammunition can hold, and the spell must be able to target
a creature other than the caster. A creature hit by activated
spellstrike ammunition is targeted by the spell. If the creature
isn’t a valid target for the spell, the spell is lost.
The ammunition affects only the target hit, even if the
spell would normally affect more than one target. If the spell
requires a spell attack roll, use the result of your ranged attack
roll with the ammunition to determine the degree of success
of the spell. If the spell requires a saving throw, the target
attempts the save against your spell DC.
The maximum level of spell the ammunition can hold
determines its item level and Price.
Type I; Level 3; Price 12 gp; Maximum Spell Level 1st
Type II; Level 5; Price 30 gp; Maximum Spell Level 2nd
Type III; Level 7; Price 70 gp; Maximum Spell Level 3rd
Type IV; Level 9; Price 150 gp; Maximum Spell Level 4th
Type V; Level 11; Price 300 gp; Maximum Spell Level 5th
Type VI; Level 13; Price 600 gp; Maximum Spell Level 6th
Type VII; Level 15; Price 1,300 gp; Maximum Spell Level 7th
Type VIII; Level 17; Price 3,000 gp; Maximum Spell Level 8th
Type IX; Level 19; Price 8,000 gp; Maximum Spell Level 9th
STONE BULLET 
ITEM 15
CONSUMABLE
 MAGICAL
 TRANSMUTATION
Price 1,300 gp
Ammunition sling bullet
Activate [one-action] Interact
This sling bullet looks like a petrified serpent’s eye. A creature
hit by an activated stone bullet is subject to the effects of a
6th-level flesh to stone spell (DC 34).
Craft Requirements Supply one casting of flesh to stone.
STORM ARROW
ITEM 9
AIR
 CONSUMABLE
 ELECTRICITY
 EVOCATION
 MAGICAL
Price 130 gp
Ammunition arrow
Activate [one-action] Interact
The head of this arrow is made from gleaming copper.
When an activated storm arrow hits a target, it is buffeted
by raging winds and struck by a bolt of lightning that deals
3d12 electricity damage and the target must attempt a DC 25
Reflex saving throw. If this arrow is shot from a weapon with
a shock property rune, the save DC increases to 27, though
the attack doesn’t benefit from the shock property rune itself.
Critical Success The foe is unaffected.
Success The foe takes half damage and isn’t affected by the wind.
Failure The foe takes full damage and is buffeted by winds for
1 round, taking a –2 circumstance penalty to ranged attack
rolls and a –10-foot circumstance penalty to its fly Speed.
Critical Failure As failure, but the foe takes double damage.
VINE ARROW
ITEM 3
CONJURATION
 CONSUMABLE
 MAGICAL
Price 10 gp
Ammunition arrow
Core Rulebook
560
