Heightened (6th) The spell’s range increases to 30 feet, and
you can target up to 10 creatures. You can choose the effect to
counteract separately for each selected creature.
RETROCOGNITION
SPELL 7
DIVINATION
Traditions occult
Cast 1 minute (material, somatic, verbal)
Duration sustained
Opening your mind to occult echoes, you gain impressions
from past events that occurred in your current location.
Retrocognition reveals psychic impressions from events that
occurred over the course of the last day throughout the first
minute of the duration, followed by impressions from the next
day back the next minute, and so on. These echoes don’t play
out like a vision but instead reveal impressions of emotions
and metaphors that provide cryptic clues and details of the
past. If you witness a traumatic or turbulent event through
an impression, the spell ends unless you succeed at a Will
save with a DC of at least 30 and possibly as much as 50,
depending on the severity of the event. The GM determines
whether an event is traumatic and chooses the DC.
Heightened (8th) You gain impressions of events that occurred
over the previous year for each minute you concentrate, instead
of the previous day, though the details diminish, making it harder
to distinguish impressions from all but the most major events.
Heightened (9th) You gain impressions of events that occurred
over the previous century for each minute you concentrate,
instead of the previous day, though the details diminish,
making it almost impossible to distinguish impressions from
all but the most major events.
REVERSE GRAVITY
SPELL 7
UNCOMMON
EVOCATION
Traditions arcane, occult
Cast [three-actions] material, somatic, verbal
Range 120 feet; Area 20-foot radius, 40-foot-tall cylinder
Duration 1 minute
You reverse gravity in the area. Creatures and objects that
aren’t secured to the ground immediately fall upward to the
top of the area. A creature might be able to Grab an Edge
to arrest its fall if it falls past an appropriate surface. If a
creature falls against a solid object (such as a ceiling), it takes
the appropriate amount of falling damage and lands on the
surface. Once an object or creature reaches the top of the area,
it floats, caught between the normal and reversed gravity. The
creature can move along the plane where the two forms of
gravity meet. Creatures that can levitate or fly can use those
abilities to mitigate the effects of reverse gravity.
When reverse gravity ends, all creatures and objects caught
in the area fall back down. Likewise, anything that moves
beyond the spell’s area is subjected to normal gravity again.
365
7
SPELLS
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Skills
Feats
Equipment
Spells
The Age of
Lost OMENS
Playing the
Game
Game
mastering
Crafting
& Treasure
Appendix
