Class Features
You gain these abilities as a sorcerer. Abilities gained at
higher levels list the requisite levels next to their names.
Ancestry and Background
In addition to the abilities provided by your class at 1st
level, you have the benefits of your selected ancestry and
background, as described in Chapter 2.
Initial Proficiencies
At 1st level, you gain a number of proficiencies that
represent your basic training. These proficiencies are
noted at the start of this class.
Bloodline
Choose a bloodline that gives you your spellcasting talent.
This choice determines the type of spells you cast and
the spell list you choose them from, additional spells you
learn, and additional trained skills. You also gain Focus
Points and special focus spells based on your bloodline.
The bloodlines presented in this book are as follows.
Aberrant: A strange and unknowable influence gives
you occult spells.
Angelic: Holy grace bestows divine spells upon you.
Demonic: A sinful corruption gives you divine spells.
Diabolic: A bond with devils gives you divine spells.
Draconic: The blood of dragons grants you
arcane spells.
Elemental: The power of the elements manifests in
you as primal spells.
Fey: Influence from the fey gives you primal spells.
Hag: The blight of a hag has given you occult spells.
Imperial: An ancient power grants you arcane spells.
Undead: The touch of death gives you divine spells.
See Bloodlines on page 194 for more information.
Sorcerer Spellcasting
Your bloodline provides you with incredible magical
power. You can cast spells using the Cast a Spell activity,
and you can supply material, somatic, and verbal
components when casting spells  (see Casting Spells on
page 302). Because you’re a sorcerer, you can usually
replace material components with somatic components,
so you don’t need to use a spell component pouch.
Each day, you can cast up to three 1st-level spells. You
must know spells to cast them, and you learn them via the
spell repertoire class feature. The number of spells you can
cast each day is called your spell slots.
As you increase in level as a sorcerer, your number of
spells per day increases, as does the highest level of spells
you can cast, as shown on Table 3–17: Sorcerer Spells per
Day on page 193.
Some of your spells require you to attempt a spell attack
roll to see how effective they are, or have your enemies
roll against your spell DC (typically by attempting a saving
throw). Since your key ability is Charisma, your spell
attack rolls and spell DCs use your Charisma modifier.
Details on calculating these statistics appear on page 447.
Heightening Spells
When you get spell slots of 2nd level and higher, you
can fill those slots with stronger versions of lower-level
spells. This increases the spell’s level to match the spell
slot. You must have a spell in your spell repertoire at the
level you want to cast in order to heighten it to that level.
Many spells have specific improvements when they are
heightened to certain levels (page 299). The signature
spells class feature lets you heighten certain spells freely.
Cantrips
A cantrip is a special type of spell that doesn’t use spell slots.
You can cast a cantrip at will, any number of times per day.
A cantrip is always automatically heightened to half your
level rounded up—this is usually equal to the highest level
of spell you can cast as a sorcerer. For example, as a 1st-
level sorcerer, your cantrips are 1st-level spells, and as a
5th-level sorcerer, your cantrips are 3rd-level spells.
TABLE 3–16: SORCERER ADVANCEMENT
Your
Level	 Class Features
1
Ancestry and background, initial proficiencies,

bloodline, sorcerer spellcasting, spell repertoire
2
Skill feat, sorcerer feat
3
2nd-level spells, general feat, signature spells,

skill increase
4
Skill feat, sorcerer feat
5
3rd-level spells, ability boosts, ancestry feat, magical

fortitude, skill increase
6
Skill feat, sorcerer feat
7
4th-level spells, expert spellcaster, general feat,

skill increase
8
Skill feat, sorcerer feat
9
5th-level spells, ancestry feat, lightning reflexes,

skill increase
10
Ability boosts, skill feat, sorcerer feat
11
6th-level spells, alertness, general feat, simple

weapon expertise, skill increase
12
Skill feat, sorcerer feat
13
7th-level spells, ancestry feat, defensive robes, skill

increase, weapon specialization
14
Skill feat, sorcerer feat
15
8th-level spells, ability boosts, general feat, master

spellcaster, skill increase
16
Skill feat, sorcerer feat
17
9th-level spells, ancestry feat, skill increase
18
Skill feat, sorcerer feat
19
Bloodline paragon, general feat, legendary

spellcaster, skill increase
20
Ability boosts, skill feat, sorcerer feat
Core Rulebook
192
