Core Rulebook
620
condition ends if a creature uses hostile actions against
you or any of your allies.
Fatigued
You’re tired and can’t summon much energy. You take
a –1  status penalty to AC and saving throws. While
exploring, you can’t choose an exploration activity.
You recover from fatigue after a full night’s rest.
Flat-Footed
You’re distracted or otherwise unable to focus your full
attention on defense. You take a –2 circumstance penalty
to AC. Some effects give you the flat-footed condition only
to certain creatures or against certain attacks. Others—
especially conditions—can make you universally flat-
footed against everything. If a rule doesn’t specify that the
condition applies only to certain circumstances, it applies
to all of them; for example, many effects simply say “The
target is flat-footed.”
Fleeing
You’re forced to run away due to fear or some other
compulsion. On your turn, you must spend each of your
actions trying to escape the source of the fleeing condition
as expediently as possible (such as by using move actions
to flee, or opening doors barring your escape). The source
is usually the effect or caster that gave you the condition,
though some effects might define something else as the
source. You can’t Delay or Ready while fleeing.
Friendly
This condition reflects a creature’s disposition toward
a particular character, and it affects only creatures that
are not player characters. A creature that is friendly to a
character likes that character. The character can attempt
to make a Request of a friendly creature, and the friendly
creature is likely to agree to a simple and safe request that
doesn’t cost it much to fulfill. If the character or one of
their allies uses hostile actions against the creature, the
creature gains a worse attitude condition depending on the
severity of the hostile action, as determined by the GM.
Frightened
You’re gripped by fear and struggle to control your nerves.
The frightened condition always includes a value. You take
a status penalty equal to this value to all your checks and
DCs. Unless specified otherwise, at the end of each of your
turns, the value of your frightened condition decreases
by 1.
Grabbed
You’re held in place by another creature, giving you the
flat-footed and immobilized conditions. If you attempt a
manipulate action while grabbed, you must succeed at a
DC 5 flat check or it is lost; roll the check after spending
the action, but before any effects are applied.
Helpful
This condition reflects a creature’s disposition toward
a particular character, and it affects only creatures that
are not player characters. A creature that is helpful to a
character wishes to actively aid that character. It will
accept reasonable Requests from that character, as long as
such requests aren’t at the expense of the helpful creature’s
goals or quality of life. If the character or one of their allies
uses a hostile action against the creature, the creature gains
a worse attitude condition depending on the severity of the
hostile action, as determined by the GM.
Hidden
While you’re hidden from a creature, that creature knows
the space you’re in but can’t tell precisely where you are.
You typically become hidden by using Stealth to Hide.
When Seeking a creature using only imprecise senses, it
remains hidden, rather than observed. A creature you’re
hidden from is flat-footed to you, and it must succeed at
a DC 11 flat check when targeting you with an attack,
spell, or other effect or it fails affect you. Area effects aren’t
subject to this flat check.
A creature might be able to use the Seek action to try to
observe you, as described on page 471.
Hostile
This condition reflects a creature’s disposition toward a
particular character, and it affects only creatures that are not
player characters. A creature that is hostile to a character
actively seeks to harm that character. It doesn’t necessarily
attack, but it won’t accept Requests from the character.
Immobilized
You can’t use any action with the move trait. If you’re
immobilized by something holding you in place and an
external force would move you out of your space, the
force must succeed at a check against either the DC of the
effect holding you in place or the relevant defense (usually
Fortitude DC) of the monster holding you in place.
Indifferent
This condition reflects a creature’s disposition toward a
particular character, and it affects only creatures that are
not player characters. A creature that is indifferent to a
character doesn’t really care one way or the other about
that character. Assume a creature’s attitude to a given
character is indifferent unless specified otherwise.
Invisible
While invisible, you can’t be seen. You’re undetected to
everyone. Creatures can Seek to attempt to detect you; if
a creature succeeds at its Perception check against your
Stealth DC, you become hidden to that creature until
you Sneak to become undetected again. If you become
invisible while someone can already see you, you start
out hidden to the observer (instead of undetected) until
