CREATE FORGERY
DOWNTIME
SECRET
You create a forged document, usually over the course of a
day or a week. You must have the proper writing material to
create a forgery. When you Create a Forgery, the GM rolls a
secret DC 20 Society check. If you succeed, the forgery is of
good enough quality that passive observers can’t notice the
fake. Only those who carefully examine the document and
attempt a Perception or Society check against your Society
DC can do so.
If the document’s handwriting doesn’t need to be specific
to a person, you need only to have seen a similar document
before, and you gain up to a +4 circumstance bonus to your
check, as well as to your DC (the GM determines the bonus).
To forge a specific person’s handwriting, you need a sample of
that person’s handwriting.
If your check result was below 20, the forgery has some
obvious signs of being a fake, so the GM compares your
result to each passive observer’s Perception DC or Society DC,
whichever is higher, using the success or failure results below.
Once the GM rolls your check for a document, that same result
is used against all passive observers’ DCs no matter how many
creatures passively observe that document.
An observer who was fooled on a passive glance can still
choose to closely scrutinize the documents on the lookout for
a forgery, using different techniques and analysis methods
beyond the surface elements you successfully forged with
your original check. In that case, the observer can attempt a
Perception or Society check against your Society DC (if they
succeed, they know your document is a forgery).
Success The observer does not detect the forgery.
Failure The observer knows your document is a forgery.
Stealth (Dex)
You are skilled at avoiding detection, allowing you to slip
past foes, hide, or conceal an item.
CONCEAL AN OBJECT [one-action]
MANIPULATE
SECRET
You hide a small object on your person (such as a weapon of
light Bulk). When you try to sneak a concealed object past
someone who might notice it, the GM rolls your Stealth check
and compares it to this passive observer’s Perception DC. Once
the GM rolls your check for a concealed object, that same
result is used no matter how many passive observers you
try to sneak it past. If a creature is specifically searching you
for an item, it can attempt a Perception check against your
Stealth DC (finding the object on success).
You can also conceal an object somewhere other than your
person, such as among undergrowth or in a secret compartment
within a piece of furniture. In this case, characters Seeking in
an area compare their Perception check results to your Stealth
DC to determine whether they find the object.
Success The object remains undetected.
Failure The searcher finds the object.
BEING STEALTHY
If you want to sneak around when there are creatures
that can see you, you can use a combination of Hide and
Sneak to do so.
•	 First, Hide behind something (either by taking
advantage of cover or having the concealed condition
due to fog, a spell, or a similar effect). A successful
Stealth check makes you hidden, though the creatures
still know roughly where you are.
•	 Second, now that you’re hidden, you can Sneak. That
means you can move at half your Speed and attempt
another Stealth check. If it’s successful, you’re now
undetected. That means the creatures don’t know
which square you’re in anymore.
If you were approaching creatures that didn’t know
you were there, you could begin Sneaking right away,
since they didn’t know your location to start with. Some
actions can cause you to become observed again, but
they’re mostly what you’d expect: standing out in the
open, attacking someone, making a bunch of noise, and
so forth. If you Strike someone after successfully Hiding
or Sneaking, though, they’re flat-footed to that Strike.
Creatures can try to find you using the Seek action,
described on page 471.
Three conditions explain the states of detection.
Remember that these conditions are relative to each
creature—you can be observed by one creature while
hidden to another and undetected by a third.
OBSERVED
You’re in the creature’s clear view.
HIDDEN
The creature knows your location but can’t see you.
UNDETECTED
The creature doesn’t know your location.
HIDE [one-action]
SECRET
You huddle behind cover or greater cover or deeper into
concealment to become hidden, rather than observed. The
GM rolls your Stealth check in secret and compares the
result to the Perception DC of each creature you’re observed
by but that you have cover or greater cover against or are
concealed from. You gain the circumstance bonus from cover
or greater cover to your check.
Success If the creature could see you, you’re now hidden
from it instead of observed. If you were hidden from or
undetected by the creature, you retain that condition.
If you successfully become hidden to a creature but
then cease to have cover or greater cover against it or be
concealed from it, you become observed again. You cease
being hidden if you do anything except Hide, Sneak, or Step.
4
Skills
251
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Skills
Feats
Equipment
Spells
The Age of
Lost OMENS
Playing the
Game
Game
mastering
Crafting
& Treasure
Appendix
