Liberator: You punish those who ensnare your allies
in bondage. If the triggering enemy was using any effects
to make your ally grabbed, restrained, immobilized, or
paralyzed when you used Liberating Step, that enemy takes
persistent good damage equal to your Charisma modifier.
Juggernaut
9th
Your body is accustomed to physical hardship and
resistant to ailments. Your proficiency rank for Fortitude
saves increases to master. When you roll a success on a
Fortitude save, you get a critical success instead.
Lightning Reflexes
9th
Your reflexes are lightning fast. Your proficiency rank for
Reflex saves increases to expert.
Alertness
11th
You remain alert to threats around you. Your proficiency
rank for Perception increases to expert.
Divine Will
11th
Your faith grants mastery of your will. Your proficiency
rank for Will saves increases to master. When you roll a
success on a Will save, you get a critical success instead.
Exalt
11th
Your champion’s reaction exalts nearby allies, allowing
them to benefit as well.
Paladin: When you use Retributive Strike, each ally
within 15 feet of you with the target in their melee reach
can spend a reaction to Strike the target with a –5 penalty.
Redeemer: You protect multiple allies. You can apply
the resistance granted by Glimpse of Redemption to
yourself and all allies within 15 feet of you, including the
triggering ally, except the resistance is reduced by 2 for all.
Liberator: You can help your whole group get into
position. When you use Liberating Step, if your ally doesn’t
attempt to break free of an effect, you and all allies within
15 feet can Step, in addition to the triggering ally.
Armor Mastery
13th
Your skill with armor improves, helping you avoid more
blows. Your proficiency ranks for light, medium, and heavy
armor, as well as for unarmored defense, increase to master.
Weapon Mastery
13th
You fully understand your weapons. Your proficiency
ranks for simple and martial weapons increase to master.
Greater Weapon Specialization
15th
Your damage from weapon specialization increases to 4
with weapons and unarmed attacks in which you’re an
expert, 6 if you’re a master, and 8 if you’re legendary.
Champion Mastery
17th
You’ve mastered your arsenal of champion techniques
and divine spells. Your proficiency ranks for your
champion class DC and for divine spell attack rolls and
spell DCs increase to master.
Legendary Armor
17th
You shield yourself with steel as easily as with faith. Your
proficiency ranks for light, medium, and heavy armor, as
well as for unarmored defense, increase to legendary.
Hero’s Defiance
19th
You can defy fate and continue fighting as long as
you have divine energy. You gain the hero’s defiance
devotion spell.
Champion Feats
At each level that you gain a champion feat, you can
select one of the following feats. You must satisfy any
prerequisites before selecting the feat.
1ST LEVEL
DEITY’S DOMAIN
FEAT 1
CHAMPION
You embody an aspect of your deity. Choose one of your
deity’s domains from those listed on page 441. You gain the
domain’s initial domain spell as a devotion spell.
RANGED REPRISAL
FEAT 1
CHAMPION
Prerequisites paladin cause
You can use Retributive Strike with a ranged weapon. In
addition, if the foe that triggered your reaction is within 5 feet
of your reach but not in your reach, as part of your reaction
you can Step to put the foe in your reach before making a
melee Retributive Strike.
UNIMPEDED STEP
FEAT 1
CHAMPION
Prerequisites liberator cause
KEY TERMS
You’ll see these terms in many champion abilities.
Flourish: Flourishes are techniques that require too
much exertion to perform a large number in a row. You
can use only 1 action with the flourish trait per turn.
Metamagic: These actions tweak your spells. You must
use a metamagic action directly before Casting the Spell
you want to alter. If you use any action (including free
actions and reactions) other than Cast a Spell directly
after, you waste the benefits of the metamagic action.
Effects added by a metamagic action are part of the
spell’s effect, not of the metamagic action.
Oath: Oaths add an additional tenet to your code. You
can usually have only one feat with this trait.
109
3
CLASSES
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Skills
Feats
Equipment
Spells
The Age of
Lost OMENS
Playing the
Game
Game
mastering
Crafting
& Treasure
Appendix
