DUAL-HANDED ASSAULT [one-action]
FEAT 4
FIGHTER
FLOURISH
Requirements You are wielding a one-handed melee weapon
and have a free hand.
You snap your free hand over to grip your weapon just long
enough to add momentum and deliver a more powerful
blow to your opponent. Make a Strike with the required
weapon. You quickly switch your grip during the Strike in
order to make the attack with two hands. If the weapon
doesn’t normally have the two-hand trait, increase its
weapon damage die by one step for this attack. (Rules on
increasing die size appear on page 279.) If the weapon has
the two-hand trait, you gain the benefit of that trait and
a circumstance bonus to damage equal to the weapon’s
number of damage dice. When the Strike is complete, you
resume gripping the weapon with only one hand. This action
doesn’t end any stance or fighter feat effect that requires
you to have one hand free.
KNOCKDOWN [two-actions]
FEAT 4
FIGHTER
FLOURISH
Prerequisites trained in Athletics
You make an attack to knock a foe off balance, then follow
up immediately with a sweep to topple them. Make a
melee Strike. If it hits and deals damage, you can attempt
an Athletics check to Trip the creature you hit. If you’re
wielding a two-handed melee weapon, you can ignore Trip’s
requirement that you have a hand free. Both attacks count
toward your multiple attack penalty, but the penalty doesn’t
increase until after you’ve made both of them.
POWERFUL SHOVE
FEAT 4
FIGHTER
Prerequisites Aggressive Block or Brutish Shove
You can push larger foes around with your attack. You can use
Aggressive Block or Brutish Shove against a creature up to
two sizes larger than you.
When a creature you Shove has to stop moving because it
would hit an object, it takes damage equal to your Strength
modifier (minimum 1). This happens regardless of how you
Shoved the creature.
QUICK REVERSAL [one-action]
FEAT 4
FIGHTER
FLOURISH
PRESS
Requirements You are flanked by at least two enemies.
You turn your foes’ flanking against them with a quick
reverse. Make a melee Strike against one of the flanking
enemies and make a second Strike with the same weapon
or unarmed attack against a different enemy that is flanking
you. This second Strike has the same multiple attack penalty
of the initial attack and doesn’t count toward your multiple
attack penalty.
SHIELDED STRIDE
FEAT 4
FIGHTER
When your shield is up, your enemies’ blows can’t touch you.
opponent hard enough to make it stumble back. Make a
Strike with a two-handed melee weapon. If you hit a target
that is your size or smaller, that creature is flat-footed until
the end of your current turn, and you can automatically
Shove it, with the same benefits as the Shove action
(including the critical success effect, if your Strike was a
critical hit). If you move to follow the target, your movement
doesn’t trigger reactions.
This Strike has the following failure effect.
Failure The target becomes flat-footed until the end of your
current turn.
COMBAT GRAB [one-action]
FEAT 2
FIGHTER
PRESS
Requirements You have one hand free, and your target is
within reach of that hand.
You swipe at your opponent and grab at them. Make a melee
Strike while keeping one hand free. If the Strike hits, you grab
the target using your free hand. The creature remains grabbed
until the end of your next turn or until it Escapes, whichever
comes first.
DUELING PARRY [one-action]
FEAT 2
FIGHTER
Requirements You are wielding only a single one-handed
melee weapon and have your other hand or hands free.
You can parry attacks against you with your one-handed
weapon. You gain a +2 circumstance bonus to AC until the
start of your next turn as long as you continue to meet
the requirements.
INTIMIDATING STRIKE [two-actions]
FEAT 2
EMOTION
FEAR
FIGHTER
MENTAL
Your blow not only wounds creatures but also shatters their
confidence. Make a melee Strike. If you hit and deal damage,
the target is frightened 1, or frightened 2 on a critical hit.
LUNGE [one-action]
FEAT 2
FIGHTER
Requirement You are wielding a melee weapon.
Extending your body to its limits, you attack an enemy that
would normally be beyond your reach. Make a Strike with a
melee weapon, increasing your reach by 5 feet for that Strike.
If the weapon has the disarm, shove, or trip trait, you can use
the corresponding action instead of a Strike.
4TH LEVEL
DOUBLE SHOT [two-actions]
FEAT 4
FIGHTER
FLOURISH
Requirements You are wielding a ranged weapon with reload 0.
You shoot twice in blindingly fast succession. Make two
Strikes, each against a separate target and with a –2 penalty.
Both attacks count toward your multiple attack penalty, but
the penalty doesn’t increase until after you’ve made both
of them.
Core Rulebook
146
