A
APPENDIX
621
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Skills
Feats
Equipment
Spells
The Age of
Lost OMENS
Playing the
Game
Game
mastering
Crafting
& Treasure
Appendix
you successfully Sneak. You can’t become observed while
invisible except via special abilities or magic.
Observed
Anything in plain view is observed by you. If a creature
takes measures to avoid detection, such as by using Stealth
to Hide, it can become hidden or undetected instead of
observed. If you have another precise sense instead of or in
addition to sight, you might be able to observe a creature or
object using that sense instead. You can observe a creature
only with precise senses. When Seeking a creature using only
imprecise senses, it remains hidden, rather than observed.
Paralyzed
Your body is frozen in place. You have the flat-footed
condition and can’t act except to Recall Knowledge and
use actions that require only the use of your mind (as
determined by the GM). Your senses still function, but
only in the areas you can perceive without moving your
body, so you can’t Seek while paralyzed.
Persistent Damage
Persistent damage comes from effects like acid, being on
fire, or many other situations. It appears as “X persistent
[type] damage,” where “X” is the amount of damage dealt
and “[type]” is the damage type. Instead of taking persistent
damage immediately, you take it at the end of each of your
turns as long as you have the condition, rolling any damage
dice anew each time. After you take persistent damage, roll
a DC 15 flat check to see if you recover from the persistent
damage. If you succeed, the condition ends.
Petrified
You have been turned to stone. You can’t act, nor can
you sense anything. You become an object with a Bulk
double your normal Bulk (typically 12 for a petrified
Medium creature or 6 for a petrified Small creature), AC 9,
Hardness 8, and the same current Hit Points you had when
alive. You don’t have a Broken Threshold. When you’re
turned back into flesh, you have the same number of Hit
Points you had as a statue. If the statue is destroyed, you
immediately die. While petrified, your mind and body are
in stasis, so you don’t age or notice the passing of time.
Prone
You’re lying on the ground. You are flat-footed and take
a –2 circumstance penalty to attack rolls. The only move
actions you can use while you’re prone are Crawl and
Stand. Standing up ends the prone condition. You can
Take Cover while prone to hunker down and gain cover
against ranged attacks, even if you don’t have an object to
get behind, gaining a +4 circumstance bonus to AC against
ranged attacks (but you remain flat-footed).
If you would be knocked prone while you’re Climbing
or Flying, you fall (see pages 463–464 for the rules on
falling). You can’t be knocked prone when Swimming.
PERSISTENT DAMAGE RULES
The additional rules presented below apply to persistent
damage in certain cases.
Assisted Recovery
You can take steps to help yourself recover from
persistent damage, or an ally can help you, allowing you
to attempt an additional flat check before the end of your
turn. This is usually an activity requiring 2 actions, and
it must be something that would reasonably improve
your chances (as determined by the GM). For example,
you might try to smother a flame, wash off acid, or use
Medicine to Administer First Aid to stanch bleeding. This
allows you to attempt an extra flat check immediately.
The GM decides how your help works, using the
following examples as guidelines.
•	 Reduce the DC of the flat check to 10 for a particularly
appropriate type of help, such as dousing you in water to
put out flames.
•	 Automatically end the condition due to the type of help,
such as healing that restores you to your maximum HP
to end persistent bleed damage, or submerging yourself
in a lake to end persistent fire damage.
•	 Alter the number of actions required to help you if
the means the helper uses are especially efficient or
remarkably inefficient.
Persistent damage runs its course and automatically
ends after a certain amount of time as fire burns out,
blood clots, and the like. The GM determines when this
occurs, but it usually takes 1 minute.
Immunities, Resistances, and Weaknesses
Immunities, resistances, and weaknesses all apply to
persistent damage. If an effect deals initial damage
in addition to persistent damage, apply immunities,
resistances, and weaknesses separately to the initial
damage and to the persistent damage. Usually, if an
effect negates the initial damage, it also negates the
persistent damage, such as with a slashing weapon that
also deals persistent bleed damage because it cut you.
The GM might rule otherwise in some situations.
Multiple Persistent Damage Conditions
You can be simultaneously affected by multiple persistent
damage conditions so long as they have different damage
types. If you would gain more than one persistent damage
condition with the same damage type, the higher amount
of damage overrides the lower amount. The damage you
take from persistent damage occurs all at once, so if
something triggers when you take damage, it triggers
only once; for example, if you’re dying with several types
of persistent damage, the persistent damage increases
your dying condition only once.
