Heightened (6th) You can cast the spell on a willing target
to suppress all memory of a particular topic, detailed in 50
words or fewer. The effect is permanent, and it patches these
omissions with an indistinct haze.
MOMENT OF RENEWAL
SPELL 8
HEALING
NECROMANCY
Traditions divine, primal
Cast [two‑acactions] somatic, verbal
Range touch; Targets up to 6 creatures
The targets experience a day’s worth of recovery in an instant.
Any detrimental effects that would be gone after 24 hours
end, though this doesn’t shorten the duration of any active
spells affecting the targets. The targets regain Hit Points and
recover from conditions as if they had taken 24 hours of rest,
but they do not make their daily preparations again or gain
any benefits of rest other than healing. The targets are then
temporarily immune for 1 day.
MONSTROSITY FORM
SPELL 8
POLYMORPH
TRANSMUTATION
Traditions arcane, primal
Cast [two‑acactions] somatic, verbal
Duration 1 minute
You transform into the shape of a legendary monster,
assuming a Huge battle form. You must have enough space
to expand into or the spell is lost. When you cast this spell,
choose phoenix, purple worm, or sea serpent. While in this
form, you gain the beast trait (for phoenix) or the animal trait
(for purple worm or sea serpent). You can Dismiss the spell.
You gain the following statistics and abilities regardless of
which battle form you choose:
•	 AC = 20 + your level. Ignore your armor’s check penalty
and Speed reduction.
•	 20 temporary Hit Points.
•	 Darkvision.
•	 One or more unarmed melee attacks specific to the
battle form you choose, which are the only attacks
you can use. You’re trained with them. Your attack
modifier is +28, and you use the listed damage. These
attacks are Strength based (for the purpose of the
enfeebled condition, for example). If your unarmed
attack modifier is higher, you can use it instead.
•	 Athletics modifier of +30, unless your own modifier
is higher.
You also gain specific abilities based on the type of monster
you choose:
•	 Phoenix Speed 30 feet, fly Speed 90 feet; Melee [one‑acaction]
beak (reach 15 feet), Damage 2d6+12 piercing plus
2d4 fire and 2d4 persistent fire; Melee [one‑acaction] talon (agile,
reach 15 feet), Damage 2d8+12 slashing; Shroud of
Flame (aura, evocation, fire, primal) 20 feet. You gain
an aura of fire that extends out from you. A creature
that enters or ends its turn within the aura takes 2d6
fire damage. A creature can take this damage only
once per turn. You can use a single action, which
has the concentrate trait, to activate or deactivate
this aura.
•	 Purple Worm Speed 40 feet, burrow Speed 30 feet,
swim Speed 20 feet; Melee [one‑acaction] jaws (reach 10 feet),
Damage 2d12+20 piercing; Melee [one‑acaction] stinger (agile,
reach 10 feet), Damage 2d8+15 piercing plus 2d6
persistent poison; Melee [one‑acaction] body (reach 10 feet)
Damage 2d8+20
bludgeoning;
Inexorable
You
automatically recover from the paralyzed, slowed, and
stunned conditions at the end of each of your turns.
You’re also immune to being immobilized and ignore
difficult terrain and greater difficult terrain.
•	 Sea Serpent Speed 20 feet, swim Speed 90 feet; Melee
[one‑acaction] jaws (reach 15 feet), Damage 2d12+20 piercing;
Melee [one‑acaction] tail (reach 25 feet), Damage 2d8+20
bludgeoning; Spine Rake [two‑acactions] (move) You extend
your spines and Swim or Stride. Each creature you’re
adjacent to at any point during your movement takes
4d8+10 slashing damage (basic Reflex against your
spell DC).
Heightened (9th) You instead gain AC = 22 + your level, 25
temporary HP, attack modifier +31, increase damage by one
damage die, and Athletics +33.
MOON FRENZY
SPELL 5
MORPH
TRANSMUTATION
Traditions primal
Cast [two‑acactions] somatic, verbal
Range 30 feet; Targets up to 5 willing creatures
Duration 1 minute
A feral aspect overcomes the targets, making them tough and
savage. Targets gain 5 temporary Hit Points, a +10-foot status
bonus to their Speeds, and weakness 5 to silver. They also
grow vicious fangs and claws, which are unarmed attacks. The
fangs deal 2d8 piercing damage; the claws deal 2d6 slashing
damage and have the agile and finesse traits. The targets
use their highest weapon or unarmed attack proficiency
with these attacks, and if they have weapon specialization
or greater weapon specialization, they add this damage as
well. On a critical hit with one of these unarmed attacks, the
creature struck takes 1d4 persistent bleed damage.
The targets can’t use concentrate actions unless those
actions also have the rage trait, with the exception of Seek. A
creature can attempt to end the spell’s effect on itself by using
a single action, which has the rage trait, to attempt a Will save
against your spell DC; on a success, it ends the spell’s effect
on itself.
If a target is in the light of a full moon, it also grows by one
size if it were Medium or smaller. This increases the reach of a
Medium or Tiny creature by 5 feet.
Heightened (6th) The temporary Hit Points increase to 10, the
silver weakness to 10, and the damage dealt by the attacks to
three dice.
Heightened (10th) The temporary Hit Points increase to 20,
the silver weakness to 20, and the damage dealt by the
attacks to four dice.
353
7
SPELLS
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Skills
Feats
Equipment
Spells
The Age of
Lost OMENS
Playing the
Game
Game
mastering
Crafting
& Treasure
Appendix
