SAMPLE WIZARD
You understand that the true key to victory is strength in
numbers. You add one 1st-level conjuration spell (such as
summon animal) to your spellbook. You learn the augment
summoning school spell (page 406).
Divination
As a diviner, you master remote viewing and prescience,
learning information that can transform investigations,
research, and battle strategies. You understand that
knowledge is power. You add one 1st-level divination
spell (such as true strike) to your spellbook. You learn the
diviner’s sight school spell (page 406).
Enchantment
As an enchanter, you use magic to manipulate
others’ minds. You might use your abilities
to subtly influence others or seize control
over them. You understand that the mind
surpasses matter. You add one 1st-level
enchantment spell (such as charm) to your
spellbook. You learn the charming words
school spell (page 406).
Evocation
As an evoker, you revel in the raw power of
magic, using it to create and destroy with ease.
You can call forth elements, forces, and energy to
devastate your foes or to assist you in other ways. You
understand that the most direct approach is the most
elegant. You add one 1st-level evocation spell (such as
shocking grasp) to your spellbook. You learn the force bolt
school spell (page 407).
Illusion
As an illusionist, you use magic to create images, figments,
and phantasms to baffle your enemies. You understand
that perception is reality. You add one 1st‑level illusion
spell (such as illusory object) to your spellbook. You learn
the warped terrain school spell (page 407).
Necromancy
As a necromancer, you call upon the powers of life
and death. While your school is often vilified for its
association with raising the undead, you understand that
control over life also means control over healing. You
add one 1st-level necromancy spell (such as grim tendrils)
to your spellbook. You learn the call of the grave school
spell (page 406).
Transmutation
As a transmuter, you alter the physical properties of things,
transforming creatures, objects, the natural world, and
even yourself at your whim. You understand that change
is inevitable. You add one 1st-level transmutation spell
(such as magic weapon) to your spellbook. You learn the
physical boost school spell (page 407).
CONJURER
Your magic summons creatures, transports you, and
creates useful items. You know about odd creatures
and distant realms.
ABILITY SCORES
Prioritize Intelligence. Dexterity, Constitution, and
Wisdom round out your defenses.
SKILLS
Arcana, Crafting, Diplomacy, Nature, Occultism, Religion,
Society
SPECIALIZATION
Conjuration
THESIS
Improved Familiar Attunement
HIGHER-LEVEL FEATS
Enhanced Familiar (2nd), Advanced School Spell (8th),
Effortless Concentration (16th)
Core Rulebook
208
