environmental circumstances. You’re flat-footed unless you
have a climb Speed.
Critical Success You move up, across, or safely down the
incline for 5 feet plus 5 feet per 20 feet of your land Speed
(a total of 10 feet for most PCs).
Success You move up, across, or safely down the incline for
5 feet per 20 feet of your land Speed (a total of 5 feet for
most PCs, minimum 5 feet if your Speed is below 20 feet).
Critical Failure You fall. If you began the climb on stable
ground, you fall and land prone.
Sample Climb Tasks
Untrained ladder, steep slope, low-branched tree
Trained rigging, rope, typical tree
Expert wall with small handholds and footholds
Master ceiling with handholds and footholds, rock wall
Legendary smooth surface
TABLE 4–4: CLIMB AND SWIM DISTANCE
This table provides a quick reference for how far you can
move with a Climb or Swim action.

	Climb Distance
	Swim Distance
Speed
Success
Critical
Success
Critical
5–15 feet
5
5
5
10
20–35 feet
5
10
10
15
40–55 feet
10
15
15
20
60–65 feet
15
20
20
25
FORCE OPEN [one-action]
ATTACK
Using your body, a lever, or some other tool, you attempt
to forcefully open a door, window, container or heavy gate.
With a high enough result, you can even smash through walls.
Without a crowbar, prying something open takes a –2 item
penalty to the Athletics check to Force Open.
Critical Success You open the door, window, container, or gate
and can avoid damaging it in the process.
Success You break the door, window, container, or gate open,
and the door, window, container, or gate gains the broken
condition. If it’s especially sturdy, the GM might have it take
damage but not be broken.
Critical Failure Your attempt jams the door, window, container,
or gate shut, imposing a –2 circumstance penalty on future
attempts to Force it Open.
Sample Force Open Tasks
Untrained fabric, flimsy glass
Trained ice, sturdy glass
Expert flimsy wooden door, wooden portcullis
Master sturdy wooden door, iron portcullis, metal bar
Legendary stone or iron door
GRAPPLE [one-action]
ATTACK
Requirements You have at least one free hand. Your target
cannot be more than one size larger than you.
You attempt to grab an opponent with your free hand.
Attempt an Athletics check against their Fortitude DC.
You can also Grapple to keep your hold on a creature you
already grabbed.
Critical Success Your opponent is restrained until the end of
your next turn unless you move or your opponent Escapes
(page 470).
Success Your opponent is grabbed until the end of your next
turn unless you move or your opponent Escapes.
Failure You fail to grab your opponent. If you already had
the opponent grabbed or restrained using a Grapple, those
conditions on that creature end.
Critical Failure If you already had the opponent grabbed or
restrained, it breaks free. Your target can either grab you,
as if it succeeded at using the Grapple action against you,
or force you to fall and land prone.
HIGH JUMP [two-actions]
You Stride, then make a vertical Leap and attempt a DC 30
Athletics check to increase the height of your jump. If you
didn’t Stride at least 10 feet, you automatically fail your check.
This DC might be increased or decreased due to the situation,
as determined by the GM.
Critical Success Increase the maximum vertical distance to 8
feet, or increase the maximum vertical distance to 5 feet
and maximum horizontal distance to 10 feet.
Success Increase the maximum vertical distance to 5 feet.
Failure You Leap normally.
Critical Failure You don’t Leap at all, and instead you fall prone
in your space.
Leap
The Leap basic action is used for High Jump and Long
Jump. Leap lets you take a careful, short jump. You can
Leap up to 10 feet horizontally if your Speed is at least
15 feet, or up to 15 feet horizontally if your Speed is at
least 30 feet. You land in the space where your Leap
ends (meaning you can typically clear a 5-foot gap if your
Speed is between 15 feet and 30 feet, or a 10-foot gap
if your Speed is 30 feet or more). If you make a vertical
Leap, you can move up to 3 feet vertically and 5 feet
horizontally onto an elevated surface.
LONG JUMP [two-actions]
You Stride, then make a horizontal Leap and attempt an
Athletics check to increase the length of your jump. The DC
of the Athletics check is equal to the total distance in feet
you’re attempting to move during your Leap (so you’d need
to succeed at a DC 20 check to Leap 20 feet). You can’t Leap
farther than your Speed.
If you didn’t Stride at least 10 feet, or if you attempt to jump
in a different direction than your Stride, you automatically fail
your check. This DC might be increased or decreased due to the
situation, as determined by the GM.
Success Increase the maximum horizontal distance you Leap
to the desired distance.
Core Rulebook
242
