Magic allows for astounding feats, yet even those
who consider themselves experts in the magical arts
pause in wonder before the spectacles to be found in
the Impossible Lands. What is taken for granted in
these strange and eclectic nations would be all but
impossible elsewhere.
Take Geb as an example. Here, the living are the
minority, and undeath is the predominant way of life.
Cruelty, sadism, and violence are the norm in Geb, as
one might expect of a land ruled by a violent, undead
dictator. This ghost, for whom the country was named,
has ruled his nation for thousands of years, although
for the past several centuries the day-to-day rule of the
land fell to his queen, Arazni. Her recent disappearance
(many would instead say “escape”) and abandonment
of her duties have invigorated the ghost sovereign to
once again take active leadership of his benighted realm.
Geb has opposed its northern neighbor, Nex, for the
entirety of its existence. Also named after its ruler, Nex
is a cosmopolitan realm where magic is mundane. Nex
himself has been missing for ages, yet in his absence
the Arclords have ruled quite effectively. Here, golems
patrol the streets, and the practice of fleshwarping is an
accepted and legitimate industry.
Between these two opposed nations lies a stretch of
land known as the Mana Wastes, a blasted and blighted
badland formed by the ancient wars between Nex and
Geb. The very magic of these lands is damaged—or in
many reaches dead entirely—and peculiar mutants flop
and prowl through the ruins in search of prey.
Only in the duchy of Alkenstar does life approach
anything approximating normal, but even here the
assumptions of the rest of the world are turned on
their head. With magic being unpredictable, Alkenstar’s
citizens have turned instead to technology. The nation
is home to metallurgists and machinists, and the art of
gunsmithing gives them an excellent advantage in this
part of the world. Exports of firearms have steadily
increased over the years, and Alkenstar is emerging as a
significant power of its own as a result.
Across the waters of the Obari Ocean lies the final realm
of the Impossible Lands: the island nation of Jalmeray.
Here it isn’t magic alone that allows for impossibilities
but also focused self-control and perfection of the spirit.
The people of Jalmeray have accomplished astounding
physical feats and achieved remarkable intellectual
insights using nothing more than ancient traditions of
mysticism and self-perfection.
Impossible Lands
THE AGE OF LOST OMENS
425
8
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Skills
Feats
Equipment
Spells
The Age of
Lost OMENS
Playing the
Game
Game
mastering
Crafting
& Treasure
Appendix
