critical failure only if your result is 10 lower than the DC. For example, you could get these
benefits if you spent 2 actions to Seek, which normally takes 1 action. You can get these
benefits during exploration by taking twice as long exploring as normal, or in downtime by
spending twice as much downtime.
The GM might determine a situation doesn’t grant you a benefit if a delay would
be directly counterproductive to your success, such as a tense negotiation with an
impatient creature.
ELVEN WEAPON ELEGANCE
FEAT 5
ELF
Prerequisites Elven Weapon Familiarity
You are attuned to the weapons of your elven ancestors and are particularly deadly when
using them. Whenever you critically hit using an elf weapon or one of the weapons listed in
Elven Weapon Familiarity, you apply the weapon’s critical specialization effect.
9TH LEVEL
ELF STEP [one-action] 
FEAT 9
ELF
You move in a graceful dance, and even your steps are broad. You Step 5 feet twice.
EXPERT LONGEVITY
FEAT 9
ELF
Prerequisites Ancestral Longevity
You’ve continued to refine the knowledge and skills you’ve gained through
your life. When you choose a skill in which to become trained with
Ancestral Longevity, you can also choose a skill in which you are already
trained and become an expert in that skill. This lasts until your Ancestral
Longevity expires.
When the effects of Ancestral Longevity and Expert Longevity expire, you can
retrain one of your skill increases. The skill increase you gain from this retraining must
either make you trained in the skill you chose with Ancestral Longevity or make you an
expert in the skill you chose with Expert Longevity.
13TH LEVEL
UNIVERSAL LONGEVITY [one-action]
FEAT 13
ELF
Prerequisites Expert Longevity
Frequency once per day
You’ve perfected your ability to keep up with all the skills you’ve learned over your long
life, so you’re almost never truly untrained at a skill. You reflect on your life experiences,
changing the skills you selected with Elven Longevity and Expert Longevity.
ELVEN WEAPON EXPERTISE
FEAT 13
ELF
Prerequisites Elven Weapon Familiarity
Your elven affinity blends with your class training, granting you
great skill with elven weapons. Whenever you gain a class
feature that grants you expert or greater proficiency
in certain weapons, you also gain that proficiency in
longbows, composite longbows, longswords, rapiers,
shortbows, composite shortbows, and all elf weapons
in which you are trained.
ELVEN ADVENTURERS
Many elves adventure to find
beauty and discover new
things. Typical backgrounds
for an elf include emissary,
hunter, noble, scholar, or scout.
Elves often become rangers or
rogues, taking advantage of
their dexterity, or alchemists
or wizards, exploring their
intellectual curiosity.
2
Ancestries & backgrounds
41
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Skills
Feats
Equipment
Spells
The Age of
Lost OMENS
Playing the
Game
Game
mastering
Crafting
& Treasure
Appendix
