DISRUPT UNDEAD
CANTRIP 1
NECROMANCY
POSITIVE
Traditions divine, primal
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal
Range 30 feet; Targets 1 undead creature
Saving Throw Fortitude
You lance the target with energy. You deal 1d6 positive
damage plus your spellcasting ability modifier. The target
must attempt a basic Fortitude save. If the creature critically
fails the save, it is also enfeebled 1 for 1 round.
Heightened (+1) The damage increases by 1d6.
DISRUPTING WEAPONS
SPELL 1
NECROMANCY
POSITIVE
Traditions divine
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal
Range touch; Targets up to two weapons, each of which must
be wielded by you or a willing ally, or else unattended
Duration 1 minute
You infuse weapons with positive energy. Attacks with these
weapons deal an extra 1d4 positive damage to undead.
Heightened (3rd) The damage increases to 2d4 damage.
Heightened (5th) Target up to three weapons, and the damage
increases to 3d4 damage.
DIVINE AURA
SPELL 8
ABJURATION
Traditions divine
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal
Area 10-foot emanation; Targets allies in the area
Duration sustained up to 1 minute
Divine power wards the targets, granting each a +1 status
bonus to AC and saves while in the area.
Choose an alignment your deity has (chaotic, evil, good, or
lawful). You can’t cast this spell if you don’t have a deity or your
deity is true neutral. This spell gains the trait of the alignment
you chose. The bonuses granted by the spell increase to +2
against attacks by—and effects created by—creatures with an
alignment opposite to the spell (lawful if you chose chaotic,
evil if you chose good). These bonuses increase to +4 against
effects created by such creatures that attempt to impose the
controlled condition on a target of your divine aura, as well
as against attacks made by creatures summoned by anything
opposite in alignment to your divine aura.
When a creature of opposite alignment hits a target with a
melee attack, the creature must succeed at a Will save or be
blinded for 1 minute. It’s then temporarily immune for 1 minute.
The first time you Sustain the Spell each round, the divine
aura’s radius grows 10 feet.
DIVINE DECREE
SPELL 7
EVOCATION
Traditions divine
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal
Range 40 feet; Area 40-foot emanation
Saving Throw Fortitude; Duration varies
You utter a potent litany from your faith, a mandate that
harms those who oppose your ideals. Choose an alignment
your deity has (chaotic, evil, good, or lawful). You can’t
cast this spell if you don’t have a deity or your deity is true
neutral. This spell gains the trait of the alignment you chose.
You deal 7d10 damage to creatures in the area; each creature
must attempt a Fortitude save. Creatures with an alignment
that matches the one you chose are unaffected by the spell.
Those that neither match nor oppose it treat the result of
their saving throw as one degree better and don’t suffer
effects other than damage.
Critical Success The creature is unaffected.
Success The creature takes half damage.
Failure The creature takes full damage and is enfeebled 2 for
1 minute.
Critical Failure The creature takes double damage and is
enfeebled 2 for 1 minute. On your home plane, a creature
that critically fails is banished with the effect of a failed
banishment save. A 10th-level creature or lower must
attempt a Will save. On a failure, it’s paralyzed for 1 minute;
on a critical failure, it dies.
Heightened (+1) The damage increases by 1d10, and the level
of creatures that must attempt a second save on a critical
failure increases by 2.
DIVINE INSPIRATION
SPELL 8
ENCHANTMENT
MENTAL
Traditions divine
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal
Range touch; Targets 1 willing creature
You infuse a target with spiritual energy, refreshing its magic.
If it prepares spells, it recovers one 6th-level or lower spell
it previously cast today and can cast that spell again. If it
spontaneously casts spells, it recovers one of its 6th-level or
lower spell slots. If it has a focus pool, it regains its Focus
Points, as if it had Refocused.
DIVINE LANCE
CANTRIP 1
ATTACK
CANTRIP
EVOCATION
Traditions divine
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal
Range 30 feet; Targets 1 creature
You unleash a beam of divine energy. Choose an alignment your
deity has (chaotic, evil, good, or lawful). You can’t cast this spell
if you don’t have a deity or if your deity is true neutral. Make
a ranged spell attack roll against the target’s AC. On a hit, the
target takes damage of the chosen alignment type equal to 1d4
+ your spellcasting ability modifier (double damage on a critical
hit). The spell gains the trait of the alignment you chose.
Heightened (+1) The damage increases by 1d4.
DIVINE VESSEL
SPELL 7
MORPH
TRANSMUTATION
Traditions divine
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal
Duration 1 minute
331
7
SPELLS
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Skills
Feats
Equipment
Spells
The Age of
Lost OMENS
Playing the
Game
Game
mastering
Crafting
& Treasure
Appendix
