REACTIVE PURSUIT [[reaction]
FEAT 4
ROGUE
Trigger An adjacent foe moves away from you, and you can reach
at least one space adjacent to the foe with a Stride action.
You keep pace with a retreating foe. You Stride, but you must
end your movement adjacent to the triggering enemy. Your
move does not trigger reactions from the triggering enemy. You
can use Reactive Pursuit to Burrow, Climb, Fly, or Swim instead
of Stride if you have the corresponding movement type.
SABOTAGE [one-action]
FEAT 4
INCAPACITATION
ROGUE
Requirements You have a free hand.
You subtly damage others’ equipment. Choose one item that a
creature within your reach wields or carries. The item must have
moving parts that you could possibly sabotage (a shortbow
could be sabotaged, but a longsword could not). Attempt a
Thievery check against the Reflex DC of the creature. Damage
dealt by Sabotage can’t take the item below its Break Threshold.
Critical Success You deal damage equal to four times your
Thievery proficiency bonus.
Success You deal damage equal to double your Thievery
proficiency bonus.
Critical Failure Temporarily immune to your Sabotage for 1 day.
MAGICAL TRICKSTER
FEAT 4
ROGUE
Whether you’re using magic items, wielding innate magic,
or dabbling in spellcasting, you can sneak spells past your
foes’ defenses as easily as any blade. When you succeed at
a spell attack roll against a flat-footed foe’s AC and the spell
deals damage, you can add your sneak attack damage to the
damage roll. If your single spell leads to multiple separate
damage rolls, apply your sneak attack damage only once
per target.
POISON WEAPON [one-action]
FEAT 4
MANIPULATE
ROGUE
Requirements You are wielding a piercing or slashing weapon
and have a free hand.
You apply a poison to the required weapon. If your next attack
with that weapon before the end of your next turn hits and
deals damage, it applies the effects of the poison, provided that
poison can be delivered by contact or injury. If you critically fail
the attack roll, the poison is wasted as normal.
Special During your daily preparations, you can prepare a
number of simple injury poisons equal to your rogue level. These
poisons deal 1d4 poison damage. Only you can apply these
poisons properly, and they expire the next time you prepare.
185
3
CLASSES
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Skills
Feats
Equipment
Spells
The Age of
Lost OMENS
Playing the
Game
Game
mastering
Crafting
& Treasure
Appendix
