Nomadic Halfling
Your ancestors have traveled from place to place for
generations, never content to settle down. You gain two
additional languages of your choice, chosen from among
the common and uncommon languages available to you,
and every time you take the Multilingual feat, you gain
another new language.
Twilight Halfling
Your ancestors performed many secret acts under the
concealing cover of dusk, whether for good or ill, and
over time they developed the ability to see in twilight
beyond even the usual keen sight of halflings. You gain
low-light vision.
Wildwood Halfling
You hail from deep in a jungle or forest, and you’ve
learned how to use your small size to wriggle through
undergrowth, vines, and other obstacles. You ignore
difficult terrain from trees, foliage, and undergrowth.
Ancestry Feats
At 1st level, you gain one ancestry feat, and you gain an
additional ancestry feat every 4 levels thereafter (at 5th,
9th, 13th, and 17th levels). As a halfling, you select from
among the following ancestry feats.
1ST LEVEL
DISTRACTING SHADOWS
FEAT 1
HALFLING
You have learned to remain hidden by using larger folk as
a distraction to avoid drawing attention to yourself. You
can use creatures that are at least one size larger than you
(usually Medium or larger) as cover for the Hide and Sneak
actions, though you still can’t use such creatures as cover for
other uses, such as the Take Cover action.
HALFLING LORE
FEAT 1
HALFLING
You’ve dutifully learned how to keep your balance and how
to stick to the shadows where it’s safe, important skills
passed down through generations of halfling tradition. You
gain the trained proficiency rank in Acrobatics and Stealth.
If you would automatically become trained in one of those
skills (from your background or class, for example), you
instead become trained in a skill of your choice. You also
become trained in Halfling Lore.
HALFLING LUCK [free-action]
FEAT 1
FORTUNE
HALFLING
Frequency once per day
Trigger You fail a skill check or saving throw.
Your happy-go-lucky nature makes it seem like misfortune
avoids you, and to an extent, that might even be true. You
can reroll the triggering check, but you must use the new
result, even if it’s worse than your first roll.
HALFLING WEAPON FAMILIARITY
FEAT 1
HALFLING
You favor traditional halfling weapons, so you’ve learned how
to use them more effectively. You have the trained proficiency
with the sling, halfling sling staff, and shortsword.
In addition, you gain access to all uncommon halfling
weapons. For you, martial halfling weapons are simple
weapons, and advanced halfling weapons are martial weapons.
SURE FEET
FEAT 1
HALFLING
Whether keeping your balance or scrambling up a tricky
climb, your hairy, calloused feet easily find purchase. If
you roll a success on an Acrobatics check to Balance or an
Athletics check to Climb, you get a critical success instead.
You’re not flat-footed when you attempt to Balance or Climb.
TITAN SLINGER
FEAT 1
HALFLING
You have learned how to use your sling to fell enormous
creatures. When you hit on an attack with a sling against
a Large or larger creature, increase the size of the weapon
damage die by one step (details on increasing weapon
damage die sizes can be found on page 279).
UNFETTERED HALFLING
FEAT 1
HALFLING
You were forced into service as a laborer, either pressed into
indentured servitude or shackled by the evils of slavery, but
you’ve since escaped and have trained to ensure you’ll never
be caught again. Whenever you roll a success on a check to
Escape or a saving throw against an effect that would impose
the grabbed or restrained condition on you, you get a critical
success instead. Whenever a creature rolls a failure on a check
to Grapple you, they get a critical failure instead. If a creature
uses the Grab ability on you, it must succeed at an Athletics
check to grab you instead of automatically grabbing you.
WATCHFUL HALFLING
FEAT 1
HALFLING
Your communal lifestyle causes you to pay close attention
to the people around you, allowing you to more easily notice
when they act out of character. You gain a +2 circumstance
bonus to Perception checks when using the Sense Motive
basic action to notice enchanted or possessed characters. If
you aren’t actively using Sense Motive on an enchanted or
possessed character, the GM rolls a secret check, without the
usual circumstance and with a –2 circumstance penalty, for you
to potentially notice the enchantment or possession anyway.
In addition to using it for skill checks, you can use the Aid
basic action to grant a bonus to another creature’s saving
throw or other check to overcome enchantment or possession.
Core Rulebook
52
