The power of nature is impossible to resist. It can bring ruin to the stoutest
fortress in minutes, reducing even the mightiest works to rubble, burning them
to ash, burying them beneath an avalanche of snow, or drowning them beneath
the waves. It can provide endless bounty and breathtaking splendor to those who respect it—
and an agonizing death to those who take it too lightly. You are one of those who hear nature’s
call. You stand in awe of the majesty of its power and give yourself over to its service.
During combat encounters...
You call upon the forces of nature to defeat your enemies and protect your allies.
You cast spells that draw upon primal magic to protect yourself and your friends,
heal their wounds, or summon deadly animals to fight at your side. Depending on
your bond to nature, you might call upon powerful elemental magic or change shape
into a terrifying beast.
During social encounters...
You represent balance and a reasoned approach to problems, looking for solutions
that not only are best for the natural world, but also allow the creatures within it to
live in harmony and peace. You often propose compromises that allow both sides to
gain what they truly need, even if they can’t have all that they desire.
While exploring...
Your nature skills are invaluable. You track down enemies, navigate the wilderness,
and use spells to detect magical auras around you. You might even ask wild animals
to lend their extraordinary senses and scouting abilities to your group.
In downtime...
You might craft magic items or potions. Alternatively, your tie to nature might lead
you to tend a wilderness area, befriending beasts and healing the wounds caused by
civilization. You might even teach sustainable farming and animal husbandry techniques
that allow others to subsist off the land without harming the natural balance.
You Might...
•	 Have a deep and meaningful respect for the power of nature.
•	 Be in constant awe of the natural world, eager to share it with others but wary of
their influence upon it.
•	 Treat plants and animals as allies, working with them to reach your goals.
Others Probably...
•	 View you as a representative of nature, and are sure you can control it.
•	 Assume you’re a recluse who avoids society and cities and prefers to live in the wild.
•	 Consider you a mystic, similar to a priest, but answering only to the forces of nature.
INITIAL PROFICIENCIES
At 1st level, you gain the
listed proficiency ranks in
the following statistics. You
are untrained in anything
not listed unless you gain a
better proficiency rank in some
other way.
PERCEPTION
Trained in Perception
SAVING THROWS
Trained in Fortitude
Trained in Reflex
Expert in Will
SKILLS
Trained in Nature
Trained in one skill determined
by your druidic order
Trained in a number of
additional skills equal to 2 plus
your Intelligence modifier
ATTACKS
Trained in simple weapons
Trained in unarmed attacks
DEFENSES
Trained in light armor
Trained in medium armor
Trained in unarmored defense
CLASS DC
Trained in druid class DC
SPELLS
Trained in primal spell attacks
Trained in primal spell DCs
Druid
HIT POINTS
8 plus your Constitution modifier
You increase your maximum number of
HP by this number at 1st level and every
level thereafter.
KEY ABILITY
WISDOM
At 1st level, your class gives you
an ability boost to Wisdom.
3
CLASSES
129
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Skills
Feats
Equipment
Spells
The Age of
Lost OMENS
Playing the
Game
Game
mastering
Crafting
& Treasure
Appendix
