Pathfinder adventures take place in the Age of Lost Omens, a perilous fantasy world
rife with ancient empires; sprawling city-states; and countless tombs, dungeons, and
monster lairs packed with plunder. A Pathfinder character’s adventures might take them
to forsaken underwater ruins, haunted gothic crypts, or magical universities in jungle
cities. A world of endless adventure awaits!
What Is a Roleplaying Game?
A roleplaying game is an interactive story where one player, the Game Master (GM), sets
the scene and presents challenges, while other players take the roles of player characters
(PCs) and attempt to overcome those challenges. Danger comes in the form of monsters,
devious traps, and the machinations of adversarial agents, but Pathfinder also provides
political schemes, puzzles, interpersonal drama, and much, much more.
The game is typically played in a group of four to seven players, with one of those
players serving as the group’s Game Master. The GM prepares, presents, and presides
over the game’s world and story, posing challenges and playing adversaries, allies, and
bystanders alike. As each scene leads into the next, each player contributes to the story,
responding to situations according to the personality and abilities of their character.
Dice rolls, combined with preassigned statistics, add an element of chance and determine
whether characters succeed or fail at actions they attempt.
The Flow of the Game
Pathfinder is played in sessions, during which players gather in person or online for a few
hours to play the game. A complete Pathfinder story can be as short as a single session,
commonly referred to as a “one-shot,” or it can stretch on for multiple sessions, forming
a campaign that might last for months or even years. If the Game Master enjoys telling
the story and the players are entertained, the game can go as long as you like.
A session can be mostly action, with battles with vile beasts, escapes from fiendish
traps, and the completion of heroic quests. Alternatively, it could include negotiating with
a baron for rights to a fort, infiltrating an army of lumbering frost giants, or bargaining
with an angel for a strand of hair required for an elixir to revive a slain friend. Ultimately
it’s up to you and your group to determine what kind of game you are playing, from
dungeon exploration to a nuanced political drama, or anything in between.
The Players
Everyone involved in a Pathfinder game is a player, including the Game Master, but for
the sake of simplicity,  “player” usually refers to participants other than the GM. Before
the game begins, players invent a history and personality for their characters, using
the rules to determine their characters’ statistics, abilities, strengths, and weaknesses.
The GM might limit the options available during character creation, but the limits are
discussed ahead of time so everyone can create interesting heroes. In general, the only
limits to character concepts are the players’ imaginations and the GM’s guidelines.
During the game, players describe the actions their characters take and roll dice, using
their characters’ abilities. The GM resolves the outcome of these actions. Some players
enjoy acting out (or roleplaying) what they do as if they were their characters, while
others describe their characters’ actions as if narrating a story. Do whatever feels best!
If this is your first experience with a roleplaying game, it is recommended that
you take on the role of a player to familiarize yourself with the rules and the world.
THE FIRST RULE
The first rule of Pathfinder is
that this game is yours. Use
it to tell the stories you want
to tell, be the character you
want to be, and share exciting
adventures with friends. If
any other rule gets in the way
of your fun, as long as your
group agrees, you can alter or
ignore it to fit your story. The
true goal of Pathfinder is for
everyone to enjoy themselves.
DICE
Pathfinder requires a set
of polyhedral dice. Each
die has a different number
of sides—four, six, eight, or
more. When these dice are
mentioned in the text, they’re
indicated by a “d” followed by
the number of sides on the
die. Pathfinder uses 4-sided
dice (or d4), 6-sided dice (d6),
8-sided dice (d8), 10-sided dice
(d10), 12-sided dice (d12), and
20-sided dice (d20). If you
need to roll multiple dice, a
number before the “d” tells you
how many. For example, “4d6”
means you should roll four
dice, all 6-sided. If a rule asks
for d%, you generate a number
from 1 to 100 by rolling two
10-sided dice, treating one as
the tens place and the other as
the ones place.
Chapter 1: Introduction
Pathfinder is a fantasy tabletop roleplaying game (RPG) where you and a group of friends
gather to tell a tale of brave heroes and cunning villains in a world filled with terrifying
monsters and amazing treasures. More importantly, Pathfinder is a game where your
character’s choices determine how the story unfolds.
Introduction
1
7
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Skills
Feats
Equipment
Spells
The Age of
Lost OMENS
Playing the
Game
Game
mastering
Crafting
& Treasure
Appendix
