Typically, the GM tracks how well creatures detect each
other, since neither party has perfect information. For
example, you might think a creature is in the last place you
sensed it, but it was able to Sneak away. Or you might think
a creature can’t see you in the dark, but it has darkvision.
You can attempt to avoid detection by using the Stealth
skill (page 251) to Avoid Notice, Hide, or Sneak, or by
using Deception to Create a Diversion (page 245).
Observed
In most circumstances, you can sense creatures without
difficulty and target them normally. Creatures in this state
are observed. Observing requires a precise sense, which
for most creatures means sight, but see the Detecting with
Other Senses sidebar (page 465) for advice regarding
creatures that don’t use sight as their primary sense. If you
can’t observe the creature, it’s either hidden, undetected,
or unnoticed, and you’ll need to factor in the targeting
restrictions. Even if a creature is observed, it might still
be concealed.
Hidden
A creature that’s hidden is only barely perceptible. You
know what space a hidden creature occupies, but little
else. Perhaps the creature just moved behind cover and
successfully used the Hide action. Your target might be in
a deep fogbank or behind a waterfall, where you can see
some movement but can’t determine an exact location.
Maybe you’ve been blinded or the creature is under
the effects of invisibility, but you used the Seek basic
action to determine its general location based on hearing
alone. Regardless of the specifics, you’re flat-footed to a
hidden creature.
When targeting a hidden creature, before you roll to
determine your effect, you must attempt a DC  11 flat
check. If you fail, you don’t affect the creature, though the
actions you used are still expended—as well as any spell
slots, costs, and other resources. You remain flat-footed to
the creature, whether you successfully target it or not.
Undetected
If a creature is undetected, you don’t know what space
it occupies, you’re flat-footed to it, and you can’t easily
target it. Using the Seek basic action can help you find
an undetected creature, usually making it hidden from
you instead of undetected. If a creature is undetected,
that doesn’t necessarily mean you’re unaware of its
presence—you might suspect an undetected creature is in
the room with you, even though you’re unable to find its
space. The unnoticed condition covers creatures you’re
entirely unaware of.
Targeting an undetected creature is difficult. If you
suspect there’s a creature around, you can pick a square
and attempt an attack. This works like targeting a
hidden creature, but the flat check and attack roll are
both rolled in secret by the GM. The GM won’t tell you
why you missed—whether it was due to failing the flat
check, rolling an insufficient attack roll, or choosing the
Core Rulebook
466
