5th: elemental form; 6th: repulsion; 7th: energy aegis; 8th:
prismatic wall; 9th: storm of vengeance
Bloodline Spells initial: elemental toss*; advanced: elemental
motion; greater: elemental blast*
Blood Magic Elemental energy surrounds you or a target. Either
you gain a +1 status bonus to Intimidation checks for 1 round, or a
target takes 1 damage per spell level. The damage is bludgeoning
or fire, according to your elemental type (see below). If the spell
already deals that type of damage, combine it with the spell’s
initial damage before determining weaknesses and resistances.
Elemental Type
At 1st level, choose the type of elemental that influenced
your bloodline: air, earth, fire, or water. If your element is
air, you buffet your foes with powerful winds; if it’s earth,
you toss huge chunks of rock; if it’s fire, you incinerate
your foes with flame; and if it’s water, you inundate your
foes with torrents of water. For fire, all marked spells deal
fire damage. For other elements, they deal bludgeoning
damage. You also add the trait of the element you chose.
Fey
Fey whimsy or a tryst in a moonlit grove put the bewitching
magic of the First World into your family’s bloodline.
Spell List primal (page 314)
Bloodline Skills Deception, Nature
Granted Spells cantrip: ghost sound; 1st: charm; 2nd: hideous
laughter; 3rd: enthrall; 4th: suggestion; 5th: cloak of colors;
6th: mislead; 7th: visions of danger; 8th: uncontrollable dance;
9th: resplendent mansion
Bloodline Spells
initial:
faerie dust;
advanced:
fey
disappearance; greater: fey glamour
Blood Magic Colorful fey glamours dance around you or one
target, causing them to be concealed for 1 round. Such obvious
concealment can’t be used to Hide.
Hag
A hag long ago cursed your family, or you are a descendant
of a hag or changeling, and their accursed corruption
infests your blood and soul.
Spell List occult (page 311)
Bloodline Skills Deception, Occultism
Granted Spells cantrip: daze; 1st: illusory disguise; 2nd: touch
of idiocy; 3rd: blindness; 4th: outcast’s curse; 5th: mariner’s
curse; 6th: baleful polymorph; 7th: warp mind; 8th: spiritual
epidemic; 9th: nature’s enmity
Bloodline Spells initial: jealous hex; advanced: horrific visage;
greater: you’re mine
197
3
CLASSES
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Skills
Feats
Equipment
Spells
The Age of
Lost OMENS
Playing the
Game
Game
mastering
Crafting
& Treasure
Appendix
