Treasure comes in all sorts of forms, from humble copper
coins to incredibly powerful and valuable magic items.
The GM controls the flow of items in the game as the PCs
win them through adventures, find them for purchase, or
acquire the formulas to make the items themselves.
Items can support characters by granting bonuses to their
statistics, allowing them to cast more spells, and creating
all sorts of effects that can’t be achieved in any other way.
Magic items come in many varieties, from enchanted swords
that can harm even incorporeal undead to containers that
can store a king’s ransom within a tiny space; many are
permanent items that can be used repeatedly. Alchemical
items, by contrast, are not intrinsically magical and are
often consumed when used. Both have a variety of uses,
from curing the sick to lighting foes on fire. Some treasures
are neither magical nor alchemical, but are instead crafted
from precious materials or using specialized expertise.
This chapter provides rules for using different kinds
of items encountered in the game. Rules for distributing
treasure and creating treasure hoards can be found on
page 508 of Chapter 10: Game Mastering.
•	 Using Items, beginning below, describes how to
activate items and explains the statistics for items.
•	 Table 11–1: Treasure by Level, beginning on page
536, lists the options for treasures, arranged by
level, category, and Price.
•	 The catalog of items, which begins on page 543,
presents descriptions and rules for all sorts of
different treasures that can appear in the game,
sorted by category (page 533 has a list of key
categories and subcategories). This also includes
a section on precious materials found in the game
world, which can give items unusual properties.
Using Items
This section presents the rules for how characters use
alchemical items, magic items, and other special items
during play.
The myriad types of items give their powerful boons in
different ways. Some function automatically, while others
need to be activated. While you need only swing a flaming
greataxe to scorch foes, you need to invest a diadem of
intellect for it to work, imbibe an elixir of life to heal
yourself, activate slippers of spider climbing to walk up
a wall, activate your mail of luck to protect yourself, and
Cast a Spell using a magical scroll.
Chapter 11: Crafting & Treasure
Characters acquire treasure from the glittering hoards of their foes, as rewards for defending
the innocent, and as favors from the grand personalities they treat with. As they progress
through their adventures and improve their station in the world, characters collect ever
more fabulous items from enchanted armor and weapons to spell-infused staves.
Constant Abilities
Some magic items have abilities that always function.
You don’t have to use any actions to do anything special
(beyond wearing and investing a worn item or wielding
a held item) to make these abilities work. For example,
an everburning torch always sheds light, and a flaming
weapon deals fire damage every time it deals damage.
Investing Magic Items
Certain magic items convey their magical benefits only
when worn and invested using the Invest an Item activity,
tying them to your inner potential. These items have the
invested trait. Many invested items have constant abilities
that function all the time or that always trigger when you
use the item—but only when they’re invested. If you don’t
have an item invested, these abilities don’t work. If an
invested item can be activated, you must have invested
the item to activate it.
You can benefit from no more than 10 invested magic
items each day. Because this limit is fairly high, and because
it matters only for worn items, you probably won’t need
to worry about reaching the limit until higher levels, when
you’ve acquired many useful magic items to wear.
You can still gain the mundane benefits of an item if you
don’t invest it. A suit of +1 resilient armor still gives you
its item bonus to AC when not invested, but it doesn’t give
its magical bonus to saving throws, and winged boots still
protect your feet even though you can’t activate them to
fly. Entirely non-magical items don’t need to be invested.
INVEST AN ITEM
You invest your energy in an item with the invested trait as
you don it. This process requires 1 or more Interact actions,
usually taking the same amount of time it takes to don the item.
Once you’ve Invested the Item, you benefit from its constant
magical abilities as long as you meet its other requirements
(for most invested items, the only other requirement is that
you must be wearing the item). This investiture lasts until you
remove the item.
You can invest no more than 10 items per day. If you remove
an invested item, it loses its investiture. The item still counts
against your daily limit after it loses its investiture. You reset
the limit during your daily preparations, at which point you
Invest your Items anew. If you’re still wearing items you had
invested the previous day, you can typically keep them invested
on the new day, but they still count against your limit.
531
11
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Skills
Feats
Equipment
Spells
The Age of
Lost OMENS
Playing the
Game
Game
mastering
Crafting
& Treasure
Appendix
