Sewer Gas
Sewer gas often contains pockets of highly flammable
gas. A pocket of sewer gas exposed to a source of flame
explodes, dealing moderate environmental fire damage to
creatures in the area.
Stairs
Stairs are difficult terrain for characters moving up them,
and shoddy stairs might also be uneven ground. Some
temples and giant-built structures have enormous stairs
that are greater difficult terrain both up and down, or
might require Climbing every step.
Streets
Most settlements have narrow and twisting streets that
were largely established organically as the settlement
grew. These roads are rarely more than 20 feet wide, with
alleys as narrow as 5 feet. Streets are generally paved with
cobblestones. If the cobblestones are in poor repair, they
could be difficult terrain or uneven ground.
Particularly lawful or well-planned cities have major
thoroughfares that allow wagons and merchants to reach
marketplaces and other important areas in town. These
need to be at least 25 feet wide to accommodate wagons
moving in both directions, and they often have narrow
sidewalks that allow pedestrians to avoid wagon traffic.
Walls
Well-built structures have exterior walls of brick or
stonemasonry. Smaller, lower-quality, or temporary
structures might have wooden walls. Interior walls tend
to be less sturdy; they could be made of wooden planks,
or even simply of thick, opaque paper held in a wooden
frame. An underground structure might have thick
walls carved out of solid rock to prevent the weight of
the ground above from collapsing the structure. Rules
for climbing and breaking walls are in the sidebar on
page 515.
Underground
Underground environments consist of caves and natural
underground areas. Artificial dungeons and ruins combine
underground features with urban features like stairs and
walls. Deep underground vaults have some of the same
terrain features as mountains, such as chasms and cliffs.
The most common disasters underground are collapses.
Floors
Natural underground environments rarely have flat floors,
instead featuring abrupt changes in elevation that result in
difficult terrain, uneven ground, and inclines.
Ledges
Ledges are narrow surfaces that overlook a lower area
or provide the only means to move along the edge of
a chasm. Moving across a narrow ledge requires using
Acrobatics to Balance.
Rubble
Caverns can be covered in rubble, which is
difficult terrain. Deep or pervasive rubble is
also uneven ground.
Stalagmites and Stalactites
Stalagmites are tapering columns that
rise from the floor of a cave. Areas
filled with stalagmites are greater
difficult terrain, and especially large
stalagmites have to be sidestepped
or Climbed. Stalagmites can
be sharp enough they can be
Core Rulebook
516
