SILVERTONGUE MUTAGEN
ITEM 1+
ALCHEMICAL
 CONSUMABLE
 ELIXIR
 MUTAGEN
 POLYMORPH
Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk L
Activate [one-action] Interact
Your features become striking and your voice becomes
musical and commanding, though facts and figures become
hazy for you and emotion clouds your ability to reason.
Benefit You gain an item bonus to Deception, Diplomacy,
Intimidation, and Performance checks. Your critical failures
with any of these skill become failures instead.
Drawback You take a –2 item penalty to Arcana, Crafting,
Lore, Occultism, and Society checks. Choose one skill in which
you are trained; for the duration, you become untrained in that
skill. All your failures on checks to Recall Knowledge become
critical failures.
Type lesser; Level 1; Price 4 gp
The bonus is +1, and the duration is 1 minute.
Type moderate; Level 3; Price 12 gp
The bonus is +2, and the duration is 10 minutes.
Type greater; Level 11; Price 300 gp
The bonus is +3, and the duration is 1 hour.
Type major; Level 17; Price 3,000 gp
The bonus is +4, and the duration is 1 hour.
STONE FIST ELIXIR
ITEM 4
ALCHEMICAL
 CONSUMABLE
 ELIXIR
 MORPH
Price 13 gp
Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk L
Activate [one-action] Interact
Your fists become hard as stone. For 1 hour, your fists deal 1d6
bludgeoning damage and lose the nonlethal trait.
WINTER WOLF ELIXIR
ITEM 4+
ALCHEMICAL
 CONSUMABLE
 ELIXIR
Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk L
Activate [one-action] Interact
This elixir warms your core and improves your circulation. For
24 hours, you are protected from the effects of severe cold.
Type lesser; Level 4; Price 15 gp
Type moderate; Level 12; Price 320 gp
You’re also protected from extreme cold.
Type greater; Level 16; Price 1,400 gp
You’re also protected from extreme and incredible cold.
Alchemical Poisons
Alchemical poisons are potent toxins distilled or extracted
from natural sources and made either stronger or easier to
administer. Each poison’s stat block includes the Price and
features for a single dose. Poison doses are typically kept
in a vial or some other type of safe and secure container.
Applying alchemical poisons uses Interact actions. A
poison typically requires one hand to pour into food
or scatter in the air. Applying a poison to a weapon or
another item requires two hands, with one hand holding
the weapon or item. The Usage entry for a poison
indicates the number of hands needed for a typical means
of application, but the GM might determine that using
poisons in other ways functions differently.
The full rules for how poisons and other afflictions
work begin on page 457. A creature attempts the listed
saving throw as soon as it’s exposed to the poison; on a
failed save, the creature advances to stage 1 of the poison
after any listed onset time elapses.
Some poisons have the virulent trait. This means the
poison is harder to remove once it has taken effect; see
Virulent Afflictions on page 458.
Method of Exposure
Each alchemical poison has one of the following traits,
which define how a creature can be exposed to that poison.
Contact: A contact poison is activated by applying it to
an item or directly onto a living creature’s skin. The first
creature to touch the affected item must attempt a saving
throw against the poison; if the poison is applied directly,
the creature must attempt a saving throw immediately
when the poison touches its skin. Contact poisons are
infeasible to apply to a creature via a weapon attack due to
the logistics of delivering them without poisoning yourself.
Typically, the onset time of a contact poison is 1 minute.
Ingested: An ingested poison is activated by applying
it to food or drink to be consumed by a living creature,
or by placing it directly into a living creature’s mouth. A
creature attempts a saving throw against such a poison
when it consumes the poison or the food or drink treated
with the poison. The onset time of ingested poisons
typically ranges anywhere from 1 minute to 1 day.
Inhaled: An inhaled poison is activated by unleashing
it from its container. Once unleashed, the poison creates a
cloud filling a 10-foot cube lasting for 1 minute or until a
strong wind dissipates the cloud. Every creature entering
this cloud is exposed to the poison and must attempt a
saving throw against it; a creature aware of the poison
before entering the cloud can use a single action to hold
its breath and gain a +2 circumstance bonus to the saving
throw for 1 round.
Injury: An injury poison is activated by applying it to
a weapon, and it affects the target of the first Strike made
using the poisoned weapon. If that Strike is a success and
deals piercing or slashing damage, the target must attempt
a saving throw against the poison. On a failed Strike, the
target is unaffected, but the poison remains on the weapon
and you can try again. On a critical failure, or if the Strike
fails to deal slashing or piercing damage for some other
reason, the poison is spent but the target is unaffected.
ARSENIC
ITEM 1
ALCHEMICAL
 CONSUMABLE
 INGESTED
 POISON
Price 3 gp
Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk L
Activate [one-action] Interact
This toxin is a compound of arsenic and other substances. You
can’t reduce your sickened condition while affected.
Core Rulebook
550
