Class Features
You gain these abilities as a wizard. Abilities gained at
higher levels list the levels next to their names.
Ancestry and Background
In addition to the abilities provided by your class at 1st
level, you have the benefits of your selected ancestry and
background, as described in Chapter 2.
Initial Proficiencies
At 1st level, you gain a number of proficiencies that
represent your basic training. These proficiencies are
noted at the start of this class.
Arcane Spellcasting
Through dedicated study and practice, you can harness
arcane power to cast spells. You can cast arcane spells
using the Cast a Spell activity, and you can supply
material, somatic, and verbal components when casting
spells (see Casting Spells on page 302).
At 1st level, you can prepare up to two 1st-level spells
and five cantrips each morning from the spells in your
spellbook (see below), plus one extra cantrip and spell of
your chosen school of each level you can cast if you are
a specialist wizard. Prepared spells remain available to
you until you cast them or until you prepare your spells
again. The number of spells you can prepare is called
your spell slots.
As you increase in level as a wizard, your number of
spell slots and the highest level of spells you can cast from
spell slots increase, shown in Table 3–19: Wizard Spells
per Day on page 205.
Some of your spells require you to attempt a spell attack
roll to see how effective they are, or have your enemies roll
against your spell DC (typically by attempting a saving
throw). Since your key ability is Intelligence, your spell
attack rolls and spell DCs use your Intelligence modifier.
Details on calculating these statistics appear on page 447.
Heightening Spells
When you get spell slots of 2nd level and higher, you can
fill those slots with stronger versions of lower-level spells.
This increases the spell’s level, heightening it to match the
spell slot. Many spells have specific improvements when
they are heightened to certain levels.
Cantrips
A cantrip is a special type of spell that doesn’t use spell
slots. You can cast a cantrip at will, any number of times
per day. A cantrip is always automatically heightened to
half your level rounded up—this is usually equal to the
highest level of spell you can cast as a wizard. For example,
as a 1st-level wizard, your cantrips are 1st-level spells, and
as a 5th-level wizard, your cantrips are 3rd-level spells.
Spellbook
Every arcane spell has a written version, usually recorded
in a spellbook. You start with a spellbook worth 10 sp
or less (as detailed on page 291), which you receive for
free and must study to prepare your spells each day. The
spellbook contains your choice of 10 arcane cantrips and
five 1st-level arcane spells. You choose these from the
common spells on the arcane spell list from this book
(page 307) or from other arcane spells you gain access to.
Your spellbook’s form and name are up to you. It might
be a musty, leather-bound tome or an assortment of thin
metal disks connected to a brass ring; its name might be
esoteric, like The Crimson Libram, or something more
academic, like A Field Study in Practical Transmutation.
Each time you gain a level, you add two more arcane
spells to your spellbook, of any level of spell you can cast.
You can also use the Arcana skill to add other spells that
you find in your adventures, as described on page 241.
Arcane School
Many arcane spellcasters delve deeply into a single school
of magic in an attempt to master its secrets. If you want to
be a specialist wizard, choose a school in which to specialize.
TABLE 3–18: WIZARD ADVANCEMENT
Your
Level
Class Features
1
Ancestry and background, initial proficiencies, arcane

spellcasting, arcane school, arcane bond, arcane thesis,

wizard feat
2
Skill feat, wizard feat
3
2nd-level spells, general feat, skill increase
4
Skill feat, wizard feat
5
3rd-level spells, ability boosts, ancestry feat, lightning

reflexes, skill increase
6
Skill feat, wizard feat
7
4th-level spells, expert spellcaster, general feat,

skill increase
8
Skill feat, wizard feat
9
5th-level spells, ancestry feat, magical fortitude,

skill increase
10
Ability boosts, skill feat, wizard feat
11
6th-level spells, alertness, general feat, skill increase,

wizard weapon expertise
12
Skill feat, wizard feat
13
7th-level spells, ancestry feat, defensive robes, skill

increase, weapon specialization
14
Skill feat, wizard feat
15
8th-level spells, ability boosts, general feat, master

spellcaster, skill increase
16
Skill feat, wizard feat
17
9th-level spells, ancestry feat, resolve, skill increase
18
Skill feat, wizard feat
19
Archwizard’s spellcraft, legendary archwizard,

general feat, skill increase
20
Ability boosts, skill feat, wizard feat
Core Rulebook
204
