SAMPLE FIGHTER
SPRING ATTACK [one-action]
FEAT 12
FIGHTER
PRESS
Requirements You are adjacent to an enemy.
Springing away from one foe, you Strike at another. Stride up
to your Speed, but you must end that movement within melee
reach of a different enemy. At the end of your movement,
make a melee Strike against an enemy now within reach. You
can use Spring Attack while Burrowing, Climbing, Flying, or
Swimming instead of Striding if you have the corresponding
movement type.
14TH LEVEL
DESPERATE FINISHER [reaction]
FEAT 14
FIGHTER
Trigger You complete the last action on your turn, and your
turn has not ended yet.
Requirements You meet the requirements to use an action
with the press trait.
You throw everything into one last press. Use a single action
that you know with the press trait as part of Desperate
Finisher. You forgo the ability to use reactions until the start
of your next turn.
DETERMINATION [one-action]
FEAT 14
CONCENTRATE
FIGHTER
Frequency once per day
Your training allows you to shrug off your foes’ spells
and conditions when the need is dire. Choose a single
nonpermanent spell or condition that is affecting you. If you
chose a condition, its effect on you ends. If you chose a spell,
attempt to counteract the spell (your level is your counteract
level, and you attempt a Will save as your counteract check).
This doesn’t remove any Hit Point damage normally
dealt by the spell or condition, and it doesn’t prevent the
spell or debilitating effect from affecting other allies or the
environment around you. It can’t remove an ongoing affliction
or prevent such an affliction from inflicting conditions on you
later. It can’t remove conditions from the situation (such as
prone or flanked). If the effect comes from a creature, hazard,
or item of 20th level or higher, Determination can’t remove its
effect on you.
GUIDING FINISH [one-action]
FEAT 14
FIGHTER
PRESS
Requirements You are wielding only a single one-handed
melee weapon and have your other hand or hands free.
Using your weapon as a lever, you force your opponent
to end up right where you want them. Make a Strike
with the required weapon. If the Strike hits, you can
move the target up to 10 feet into a space in your reach.
You can move the target through your space during this
movement. This follows the forced movement rules found on
page 475. Your Strike gains the following failure effect.
Failure You can force the creature to move as you would on a
success, but you can move the target only 5 feet.
Archer
You take out your opponents from a distance with
ranged weapons, and you excel at dispatching flying
or other hard-to-reach enemies.
ABILITY SCORES
Prioritize Dexterity. Constitution and Wisdom helps with
survivability, and Strength adds damage with propulsive
weapons.
SKILLS
Acrobatics, Medicine, Stealth, Thievery
STARTING FEAT
Point-Blank Shot
HIGHER-LEVEL FEATS
Double Shot (4th), Triple Shot (6th), Debilitating Shot
(10th), Multishot Stance (16th), Impossible Volley (18th)
Core Rulebook
152
