You grant intelligence to the target, transforming it into
a beast. If it was previously an animal companion or minion, it
can no longer serve as one.
Critical Success The target’s Intelligence, Wisdom, and
Charisma modifiers each increase to +2 if they were lower,
and it becomes helpful to you for awakening it.
Success The target’s Intelligence, Wisdom, and Charisma
modifiers increase to +0 if they were worse and it becomes
friendly to you for awakening it.
Failure You fail to awaken the target.
Critical Failure You accidentally awaken the target with a
pure bestial hatred toward you. The target’s Intelligence,
Wisdom, and Charisma modifiers increase to –2 if they were
worse. It becomes hostile to you, attempting to destroy you.
BLIGHT
RITUAL 4
UNCOMMON
NECROMANCY
NEGATIVE
PLANT
Cast 1 day; Secondary Casters 1
Primary Check Nature (expert); Secondary Checks Survival
Area 1/2-mile-radius circle centered on you
Duration 1 year
You twist and stunt plants in the area, causing them to wither. In
addition to other dangers from failing plant life, this decreases
the crop yield for farms. If you cast this ritual in an area affected
by plant growth, blight attempts to counteract plant growth
instead of producing its usual effect.
Critical Success Completely spoil the crop yield in the area, or
decrease the yield by half in an area with up to a 1-mile radius.
Success Decease the crop yield in the area by half.
Failure The ritual has no effect.
Critical Failure The flora in the area changes in an unexpected
way, determined by the GM but generally as contradictory
to your true desires as possible (for instance, enriching
crops when you would prefer to blight them).
CALL SPIRIT
RITUAL 5
UNCOMMON
NECROMANCY
Cast 1 hour; Cost rare candles and incense worth a total value
of 50 gp; Secondary Casters 1
Primary Check Occultism (expert) or Religion (expert);
Secondary Checks Occultism or Religion (whichever isn’t
used for the primary check)
Duration up to 10 minutes
You tear the veil to the afterlife and call a spirit from its final
resting place. You must call the spirit by name, and you must
provide a connection to the spirit, such as a possession, a
garment, or a piece of its corpse. A spirit unwilling to heed your
call can attempt a Will save to avoid it; on a critical success, a
trickster spirit Impersonates the spirit you meant to call. The DC
of the Will save is 2 lower if you haven’t met the spirit in life.
Either way, the spirit appears as a wispy form of the creature
you meant to call. Each minute of the duration, you can ask the
spirit a question. It can answer how it pleases or even refuse to
answer. If the spirit isn’t in the afterlife (such as if it’s an undead),
all results other than critical failures use the failure effect.
Critical Success The spirit is particularly cooperative, and
even if it has strong reasons to deceive you, it takes a –2
circumstance penalty to its Deception checks.
Success You call the spirit.
Failure You fail to call a spirit.
Critical Failure One or more evil spirits appear and attack.
COMMUNE
RITUAL 6
UNCOMMON
DIVINATION
PREDICTION
Cast 1 day; Cost rare incense worth a total value of 150 gp;
Secondary Casters 1
Primary Check Occultism (master) or Religion (master);
Secondary Checks Occultism or Religion (whichever is used
for the primary check)
Duration up to 10 minutes
You call upon an unknown planar entity to answer questions;
this is a servitor of your deity if you have one and use
Religion. You can ask up to seven questions that could be
answered with “Yes” or “No.” The entity is likely to know
answers related to its purview; a servitor of Gozreh would
likely know about unnatural weather patterns and a servitor
of Desna would likely know someone’s travel route. The
entity answers with one word answers such as “Yes,” “No,”
“Likely,” and “Unknown,” though its answers always reflect
its own agenda and could be deceptive.
Critical Success You contact a more powerful entity aligned
strongly with your interests, possibly even your deity. The
entity won’t attempt to deceive you, though it still might not
know the answers. When it’s important to provide clarity, the
entity will answer your questions with up to five words, such
as “If you leave immediately” or “That was true once.”
Success You can ask your questions and receive answers.
Failure You fail to contact a planar entity.
Critical Failure You are exposed to the enormity of the cosmos
and are stupefied 4 for 1 week (can’t remove by any means).
COMMUNE WITH NATURE
RITUAL 6
UNCOMMON
DIVINATION
PREDICTION
Cast 1 day; Cost rare incense worth a total value of 60 gp;
Secondary Casters 1
Primary Check Nature (master); Secondary Checks Nature
Duration up to 10 minutes
As commune, except you contact the primal spirits of
nature, which know about animals, beasts, fey, plants,
topography, and natural resources within a 3-mile radius of
the ritual’s location.
CONSECRATE
RITUAL 2
UNCOMMON
CONSECRATION
EVOCATION
Cast 3 days; Cost rare incense and offerings worth a total
value of 20 gp × the spell level; Secondary Casters 2, must
be worshippers of your religion
Primary Check Religion; Secondary Checks Crafting, Performance
Range 40 feet; Area 40-foot-radius burst around an immobile
altar, shrine, or fixture of your deity
Duration 1 year
You consecrate a site to your deity, chanting praises and
Core Rulebook
410
