HOLY CASCADE
SPELL 4
EVOCATION
GOOD
POSITIVE
WATER
Traditions divine
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal; Cost one vial of holy water (page 571)
Range 500 feet; Area 20-foot burst
Saving Throw basic Reflex
You call upon sacred energy to amplify a vial of holy water,
tossing it an incredible distance. It explodes in an enormous
burst that deals 3d6 bludgeoning damage to creatures in the
area from the cascade of water. The water deals an additional
6d6 positive damage to undead and 6d6 good damage to fiends.
Heightened (+1) The bludgeoning damage increases by 1d6, and
the additional positive and good damage each increase by 2d6.
HORRID WILTING
SPELL 8
NECROMANCY
NEGATIVE
Traditions arcane, primal
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal
Range 500 feet; Targets any number of living creatures
Saving Throw basic Fortitude
You pull the moisture from the targets’ bodies, dealing
10d10 negative damage. Creatures made of water (such as
water elementals) and plant creatures use the outcome for
one degree of success worse than the result of their saving
throw. Creatures whose bodies contain no significant moisture
(such as earth elementals) are immune to horrid wilting.
Heightened (+1) The damage increases by 1d10.
HUMANOID FORM
SPELL 2
POLYMORPH
TRANSMUTATION
Traditions arcane, occult, primal
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal
Duration 10 minutes
You transform your appearance to that of a Small or Medium
humanoid, such as a dwarf, elf, goblin, halfling, human, orc,
or lizardfolk. You gain the humanoid trait in addition to your
other traits while in this form, as well as any trait related to the
creature’s kind (such as goblin or human). If this transformation
reduces your size, it reduces your reach accordingly (as the
shrink spell). This transformation doesn’t change your statistics
in any way, and you don’t gain any special abilities of the
humanoid form you assume. You can still wear and use your
gear, which changes size (if necessary) to match your new form.
If items leave your person, they return to their usual size.
Humanoid form grants you a +4 status bonus to Deception
checks to pass as a generic member of the chosen ancestry, and
you add your level even if you’re untrained, but you can’t make
yourself look like a specific person. If you want to Impersonate
an individual, you still need to create a disguise, though the GM
won’t factor in the difference in ancestry when determining the
DC of your Deception check. You can Dismiss this spell.
Heightened (3rd) You gain darkvision or low-light vision if the
form you assume has that ability.
Heightened (5th) You can take on the appearance of a Large
humanoid. If this increases your size, you gain the effects of
the enlarge spell.
HYDRAULIC PUSH
SPELL 1
ATTACK
EVOCATION
WATER
Traditions arcane, primal
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal
Range 60 feet; Targets 1 creature or object
You call forth a powerful blast of pressurized water that
bludgeons the target and knocks it back. Make a ranged spell
attack roll.
Critical Success The target takes 6d6 bludgeoning damage
and is knocked back 10 feet.
Success The target takes 3d6 bludgeoning damage and is
knocked back 5 feet.
Heightened (+1) The damage increases by 2d6.
HYDRAULIC TORRENT
SPELL 4
EVOCATION
WATER
Traditions primal
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal
Area 60-foot line
Saving Throw Fortitude
A swirling torrent of water manifests along a straight line,
battering those that are its path and possibly pushing them
away from you. The torrent deals 8d6 bludgeoning damage.
Each creature in the area must attempt a basic Fortitude save.
Creatures that fail the save are also knocked back 5 feet (10
feet on a critical failure).
Heightened (+1) The damage increases by 2d6.
HYPERCOGNITION
SPELL 3
DIVINATION
Traditions occult
Cast [one-action] verbal
You rapidly catalog and collate information relevant to
your current situation. You can instantly use up to 6 Recall
Knowledge actions as part of Casting this Spell. For these
actions, you can’t use any special abilities, reactions, or free
actions that trigger when you Recall Knowledge.
HYPNOTIC PATTERN
SPELL 3
ILLUSION
VISUAL
Traditions arcane, occult
Cast [two-actions] material, somatic
Range 120 feet; Area 10-foot burst
Saving Throw Will; Duration sustained up to 1 minute
You create a pattern of shifting colors that hovers in the air
in a geometric cloud. Creatures are dazzled while inside the
pattern. In addition, a creature must attempt a Will saving
throw if it is inside the pattern when you cast it, when it
enters the pattern, when it ends its turn within the pattern,
or if it uses a Seek or Interact action on the pattern. A
creature currently fascinated by the pattern doesn’t attempt
new saves.
Success The target is unaffected.
Failure The target is fascinated by the pattern.
Critical Failure The target is fascinated by the pattern. While
it remains fascinated, it can’t use reactions.
Core Rulebook
344
