spell of that level without swapping any spells; this takes as
much time as retraining a spell normally does.
Skill Increases
3rd
At 3rd level and every 2 levels thereafter, you gain a
skill increase. You can use an increase to either become
trained in one skill you’re untrained in, or to increase
your proficiency rank in one skill in which you’re already
trained to expert.
At 7th level, you can use skill increases to become a
master in a skill in which you’re already an expert, and
at 15th level, you can use them to become legendary in a
skill in which you’re already a master.
Ability Boosts
5th
At 5th level and every 5 levels thereafter, you boost four
different ability scores. You can use these ability boosts to
increase your ability scores above 18. Boosting an ability
score increases it by 1 if it’s already 18 or above, or by 2 if
it starts out below 18.
Ancestry Feats
5th
In addition to the ancestry feat you started with, you gain
an ancestry feat at 5th level and every 4 levels thereafter.
The list of ancestry feats available to you can be found in
your ancestry’s entry in Chapter 2.
Magical Fortitude
5th
Magical power has improved your body’s resiliency. Your
proficiency rank for Fortitude saves increases to expert.
Expert Spellcaster
7th
Your inherent magic responds easily and powerfully to
your command. Your proficiency ranks for spell attack
rolls and spell DCs for spells of your bloodline’s tradition
increase to expert.
Lightning Reflexes
9th
Your reflexes are lightning fast. Your proficiency rank for
Reflex saves increases to expert.
Alertness 
11th
You remain alert to threats around you. Your proficiency
rank for Perception increases to expert.
Simple Weapon Expertise
11th
Training and magic improved your weapon technique. Your
proficiency rank for simple weapons increases to expert.
Defensive Robes
13th
The flow of magic and your defensive training combine
to help you get out of the way before an attack. Your
proficiency rank in unarmored defense increases to expert.
Weapon Specialization
13th
You’ve learned to inflict grave wounds with your practiced
weapons. You deal 2 additional damage with weapons and
unarmed attacks in which you are an expert. This damage
increases to 3 if you’re a master, and 4 if you’re legendary.
Master Spellcaster
15th
You have achieved mastery over the magic in your blood.
Your proficiency ranks for spell attack rolls and spell DCs
for spells of your bloodline’s tradition increase to master.
Bloodline Paragon
19th
You have perfected the magic in your bloodline. Add
two common 10th-level spells of your tradition to your
repertoire. You gain a single 10th-level spell slot you can
use to cast these spells, using sorcerer spellcasting. Unlike
other spell slots, you don’t gain more 10th-level spells as
you level up, and they can’t be used for abilities that let
you cast spells without expending spell slots or abilities
that give you more spell slots. You can take the Bloodline
Perfection sorcerer feat to gain a second slot.
Legendary Spellcaster
19th
You demonstrate prodigious talent for spellcasting. Your
proficiency ranks for spell attack rolls and spell DCs for
spells of your bloodline’s tradition increase to legendary.
Bloodlines
Choose your bloodline, the source of your power. It has a
major influence on your abilities, determining your spell
list, the tradition of spells you cast, and two trained skills.
Bloodline Spells
Your bloodline grants you bloodline spells, special spells
unique to your lineage. Bloodline spells are a type of focus
spell. It costs 1 Focus Point to cast a focus spell, and you start
with a focus pool of 1 Focus Point. You refill your focus pool
during your daily preparations, and you can regain 1 Focus
Point by spending 10 minutes using the Refocus activity.
Unlike other characters, you don’t need to do anything
specific to Refocus, as the power of the blood flowing
through your veins naturally replenishes your focus pool.
THE BLESSED AND THE DAMNED
Many bloodlines are tied to certain types of creatures,
and the reputations of those creatures might color
how people see you. If you have the blood of demons,
people might fear you; conversely, people of good faiths
might assume your angelic blood puts you on their
side. These preconceptions aren’t necessarily true, and
you can certainly use demonic or infernal powers to do
good. Having a bloodline tied to creatures of a certain
alignment doesn’t have any effect on your own alignment
unless you want it to; your magic is disconnected from
its source. That said, many sorcerers seek out creatures
or organizations associated with their bloodlines, which
can expose them to these forces’ influences.
Core Rulebook
194
