surrender, it most often happens because one side is dead or
dying. Conditions can hinder a creature for a time, limiting
the actions they can use and applying penalties to future
checks. Some conditions are even permanent, requiring a
character to seek out powerful magic to undo their effects.
Downtime
Characters
don’t
spend
every
waking
moment
adventuring. Instead, they recover from wounds, plan
future conquests, or pursue a trade. In Pathfinder, this is
called downtime, and it allows time to pass quickly while
characters work toward long-term tasks or objectives.
Most characters can practice a trade in downtime,
earning a few coins, but those with the right skills can
instead spend time crafting, creating new gear or even
magic items. Characters can also use downtime to retrain,
replacing one character choice with another to reflect their
evolving priorities. They might also research a problem,
learn new spells, or even run a business or kingdom!
Key Terms
There are a number of important terms that you’ll need
to know as you create your first character or adventure.
Some of the most important terms mentioned on previous
pages are also included here for reference.
Ability Score
Each creature has six ability scores: Strength, Dexterity,
Constitution, Intelligence, Wisdom, and Charisma. These
scores represent a creature’s raw potential and basic
attributes. The higher the score, the greater the creature’s
potential in that ability. Ability scores are described in full
later in this chapter.
Alignment
Alignment represents a creature’s fundamental moral and
ethical attitude.
Ancestry
An ancestry is the broad family of people that a character
belongs to. Ancestry determines a character’s starting Hit
Points, languages, senses, and Speed, and it grants access
to ancestry feats. Ancestries can be found in Chapter 2.
Armor Class (AC)
All creatures in the game have an Armor Class. This score
represents how hard it is to hit and damage a creature. It
serves as the Difficulty Class for hitting a creature with
an attack.
Attack
When a creature tries to harm another creature, it makes
a Strike or uses some other attack action. Most attacks
are Strikes made with a weapon, but a character might
Strike with their fist, grapple or shove with their hands,
or attack with a spell.
Background
A background represents what a character experienced
before they took up the life of an adventurer. Each
background grants a feat and training in one or more
skills. You can read more about backgrounds in Chapter 2.
Bonuses and Penalties
Bonuses and penalties apply to checks and certain
statistics. There are several types of bonuses and penalties.
If you have more than one bonus of the same type, you
use only the highest bonus. Likewise, you use only the
worst penalty of each type.
Class
A class represents the adventuring profession chosen by
a character. A character’s class determines most of their
proficiencies, grants the character Hit Points each time
they gain a new level, and gives access to a set of class
feats. Classes appear in Chapter 3.
Condition
An ongoing effect that changes how a character can act, or
that alters some of their statistics, is called a condition. The
rules for the basic conditions used in the game can be found
in the Conditions Appendix at the back of this book.
Currency
The most common currencies in the game are gold pieces
(gp) and silver pieces (sp). One gp is worth 10 sp. In
addition, 1 sp is worth 10 copper pieces (cp), and 10 gp
are worth 1 platinum piece (pp). Characters begin play
with 15 gp (or 150 sp) to spend on equipment.
Feat
A feat is an ability you can select for your character due to
their ancestry, background, class, general training, or skill
training. Some feats grant the ability to use special actions.
Game Master (GM)
The Game Master is the player who adjudicates the rules
and narrates the various elements of the Pathfinder story
and world that the other players explore.
Golarion
Pathfinder is set on the planet Golarion during the Age of
Lost Omens. It is an ancient world with a rich diversity
of people and cultures, exciting locations to explore, and
deadly villains. More information on the Age of Lost
Omens, the world of Golarion, and its deities can be
found in Chapter 8.
Hit Points (HP)
Hit Points represent the amount of punishment a creature
can take before it falls unconscious and begins dying.
Damage decreases Hit Points on a 1-to-1 basis, while
healing restores Hit Points at the same rate.
Core Rulebook
12
