already an expert, and at 15th level, you can use them to
increase your proficiency rank to legendary in a skill in
which you’re already a master.
Ability Boosts
5th
At 5th level and every 5 levels thereafter, you boost four
different ability scores. You can use these ability boosts to
increase your ability scores above 18. Boosting an ability
score increases it by 1 if it’s already 18 or above, or by 2
if it starts out below 18.
Ancestry Feats
5th
In addition to the ancestry feat you started with, you gain
an ancestry feat at 5th level and every 4 levels thereafter.
The list of ancestry feats available to you can be found in
your ancestry’s entry in Chapter 2.
Lightning Reflexes
5th
Your reflexes are lightning fast. Your proficiency rank for
Reflex saves increases to expert.
Expert Spellcaster
7th
Extended practice of the arcane has improved your
capabilities. Your proficiency ranks for arcane spell
attack rolls and spell DCs increase to expert.
Magical Fortitude
9th
Magical power has improved your body’s resiliency. Your
proficiency rank for Fortitude saves increases to expert.
Alertness 
11th
You remain alert to threats around you. Your proficiency
rank for Perception increases to expert.
Wizard Weapon Expertise
11th
Through a combination of magic and training, you’ve
learned how to wield wizard weapons more effectively.
You gain expert proficiency in the club, crossbow,
dagger, heavy crossbow, and staff.
Defensive Robes
13th
The flow of magic and your training combine to help
you avoid attacks. Your proficiency rank in unarmored
defense increases to expert.
Weapon Specialization 
13th
You’ve learned how to inflict greater injuries with the
weapons you know best. You deal an additional 2 damage
with weapons and unarmed attacks in which you are an
expert. This damage increases to 3 if you’re a master, and
4 if you’re legendary.
Master Spellcaster
15th
You command superlative spellcasting ability. Your
proficiency ranks for arcane spell attack rolls and spell
DCs increase to master.
Resolve
 17th
You’ve steeled your mind with resolve. Your proficiency
rank for Will saves increases to master. When you roll a
success at a Will save, you get a critical success instead.
Archwizard’s Spellcraft
19TH
You command the most potent arcane magic and can
cast a spell of truly incredible power. You gain a single
10th-level spell slot and can prepare a spell in that slot
using arcane spellcasting. Unlike with other spell slots,
you don’t gain more 10th-level spells as you level up,
though you can take the Archwizard’s Might feat to gain
a second slot.
Legendary Spellcaster
19th
You are a consummate spellcaster, with a comprehensive
understanding of both arcane theory and practical
spellcraft. Your proficiency ranks for arcane spell attack
rolls and spell DCs increase to legendary.
Arcane Schools
If you specialize in an arcane school, rather than studying
each school equally (as universalists do), you gain an
extra spell slot for each level of spell you can cast. You can
prepare only spells of your chosen arcane school in these
extra slots. In addition, you can prepare an extra cantrip
of your chosen school. You also add another arcane spell
of your chosen school to your spellbook.
You learn a school spell, a special type of spell taught to
students of your arcane school. School spells are a type of
focus spell. It costs 1 Focus Point to cast a focus spell, and
you start with a focus pool of 1 Focus Point. You refill
your focus pool during your daily preparations, and you
can regain 1 Focus Point by spending 10 minutes using
the Refocus activity to study your spellbook or perform
arcane research.
Focus spells are automatically heightened to half your
level rounded up. Focus spells don’t require spell slots,
nor can you cast them using spell slots. Certain feats can
give you more focus spells and increase the size of your
focus pool, though your focus pool can never hold more
than 3 Focus Points. The full rules for focus spells appear
on page 300.
Abjuration
As an abjurer, you master the art of protection, strengthening
defenses, preventing attacks, and even turning magic
against itself. You understand that an ounce of prevention
is worth a pound of cure. You add one 1st-level abjuration
spell (such as feather fall) to your spellbook. You learn the
protective ward school spell (page 407).
Conjuration
As a conjurer, you summon creatures and objects from
places beyond, and use magic to transport to distant locales.
207
3
CLASSES
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Skills
Feats
Equipment
Spells
The Age of
Lost OMENS
Playing the
Game
Game
mastering
Crafting
& Treasure
Appendix
