the DC is in the affliction’s stat block. If it’s a spell, use the
caster’s DC. The GM can also calculate a DC based on the
target effect’s level. For spells, the counteract check modifier
is your spellcasting ability modifier plus your spellcasting
proficiency bonus, plus any bonuses and penalties that
specifically apply to counteract checks. What you can
counteract depends on the check result and the target’s
level. If an effect is a spell, its level is the counteract level.
Otherwise, halve its level and round up to determine its
counteract level. If an effect’s level is unclear and it came
from a creature, halve and round up the creature’s level.
Critical Success Counteract the target if its counteract level is no
more than 3 levels higher than your effect’s counteract level.
Success Counteract the target if its counteract level is no
more than 1 level higher than your effect’s counteract level.
Failure Counteract the target if its counteract level is lower
than your effect’s counteract level.
Critical Failure You fail to counteract the target.
Hit Points, Healing,
and Dying
All creatures and objects have Hit Points (HP). Your
maximum Hit Point value represents your health,
wherewithal, and heroic drive when you are in good
health and rested. Your maximum Hit Points include
the Hit Points you gain at 1st level from your ancestry
and class, those you gain at higher levels from your class,
and any you gain from other sources (like the Toughness
general feat). When you take damage, you reduce your
current Hit Points by a number equal to the damage dealt.
Some spells, items, and other effects, as well as simply
resting, can heal living or undead creatures. When you
are healed, you regain Hit Points equal to the amount
healed, up to your maximum Hit Points.
Knocked Out and Dying
Creatures cannot be reduced to fewer than 0 Hit Points.
When most creatures reach 0 Hit Points, they die and are
removed from play unless the attack was nonlethal, in which
case they are instead knocked out for a significant amount
of time (usually 1 minute or more). When undead and
construct creatures reach 0 Hit Points, they are destroyed.
Player characters, their companions, and other
significant characters and creatures don’t automatically
die when they reach 0 Hit Points. Instead, they are
knocked out and are at risk of death. At the GM’s
discretion, villains, powerful monsters, special NPCs, and
enemies with special abilities that are likely to bring them
back to the fight (like ferocity, regeneration, or healing
magic) can use these rules as well.
As a player character, when you are reduced to 0 Hit
Points, you’re knocked out with the following effects:
•	 You immediately move your initiative position to
directly before the creature or effect that reduced
you to 0 HP.
•	 You gain the dying 1 condition. If the effect that
knocked you out was a critical success from the
attacker or the result of your critical failure, you
gain the dying 2 condition instead. If you have the
wounded condition (page 460), increase your dying
value by an amount equal to your wounded value.
If the damage was dealt by a nonlethal attack or
nonlethal effect, you don’t gain the dying condition;
you are instead unconscious with 0 Hit Points.
Taking Damage while Dying
If you take damage while you already have the dying
condition, increase your dying condition value by 1, or by
2 if the damage came from an attacker’s critical hit or your
own critical failure. If you have the wounded condition,
remember to add the value of your wounded condition to
your dying value.
Recovery Checks
When you’re dying, at the start of each of your turns, you
must attempt a flat check with a DC equal to 10 + your
current dying value to see if you get better or worse. This
is called a recovery check. The effects of this check are
as follows.
Critical Success Your dying value is reduced by 2.
Success Your dying value is reduced by 1.
Failure Your dying value increases by 1.
Critical Failure Your dying value increases by 2.
Conditions Related to Death and Dying
To understand the rules for getting knocked out and
how dying works in the game, you’ll need some more
information on the conditions used in those rules.
Presented below are the rules for the dying, unconscious,
wounded, and doomed conditions.
Dying
You are bleeding out or otherwise at death’s door. While
you have this condition, you are unconscious. Dying
always includes a value. If this value ever reaches dying
4, you die. If you’re dying, you must attempt a recovery
check at the start of your turn each round to determine
whether you get better or worse.
If you lose the dying condition by succeeding at a recovery
check and are still at 0 Hit Points, you remain unconscious,
but you can wake up as described on page 460. You lose
the dying condition automatically and wake up if you
ever have 1 Hit Point or more. Anytime you lose the dying
condition, you gain the wounded 1 condition, or increase
your wounded value by 1 if you already have that condition.
Unconscious
You’re sleeping, or you’ve been knocked out. You can’t act.
You take a –4 status penalty to AC, Perception, and Reflex
saves, and you have the blinded and flat-footed conditions.
When you gain this condition, you fall prone and drop
459
9
PLAYING THE GAME
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Skills
Feats
Equipment
Spells
The Age of
Lost OMENS
Playing the
Game
Game
mastering
Crafting
& Treasure
Appendix
