Staging a Performance (Performance)
You perform for an audience to make money. The available
audiences determine the level of your task, since more
discerning audiences are harder to impress but provide a
bigger payout. The GM determines the task level based on
the audiences available. Performing for a typical audience of
commoners on the street is a level 0 task, but a performance
for a group of artisans with more refined tastes might be a
2nd- or 3rd-level task, and ones for merchants, nobility, and
royalty are increasingly higher level. Your degree of success
determines whether you moved your audience and whether
you were rewarded with applause or rotten fruit.
Identify Magic (Trained)
Using the skill related to the appropriate tradition, as
explained in Magical Traditions and Skills on page 238,
you can attempt to identify a magical item, location,
or ongoing effect. In many cases, you can use a skill to
attempt to Identify Magic of a tradition other than your
own at a higher DC. The GM determines whether you can
do this and what the DC is.
IDENTIFY MAGIC
CONCENTRATE
EXPLORATION
SECRET
Once you discover that an item, location, or ongoing effect
is magical, you can spend 10 minutes to try to identify the
particulars of its magic. If your attempt is interrupted, you
must start over. The GM sets the DC for your check. Cursed
or esoteric subjects usually have higher DCs or might even be
impossible to identify using this activity alone. Heightening a
spell doesn’t increase the DC to identify it.
Critical Success You learn all the attributes of the magic,
including its name (for an effect), what it does, any means of
activating it (for an item or location), and whether it is cursed.
Success For an item or location, you get a sense of what it does
and learn any means of activating it. For an ongoing effect
(such as a spell with a duration), you learn the effect’s name
and what it does. You can’t try again in hopes of getting a
critical success.
Failure You fail to identify the magic and can’t try again for 1 day.
Critical Failure You misidentify the magic as something else
of the GM’s choice.
Magical Traditions and Skills
Each magical tradition has a corresponding skill, as shown
on the table below. You must have the trained proficiency
rank in a skill to use it to Identify Magic or Learn a Spell.
Something without a specific tradition, such as an item with
the magical trait, can be identified using any of these skills.

Magical Tradition
Corresponding Skill

Arcane
Arcana

Divine
Religion

Occult
Occultism

Primal
Nature
Learn a Spell (Trained)
If you’re a spellcaster, you can use the skill corresponding
to your magical tradition to learn a new spell of that
tradition. Table 4–3: Learning a Spell lists the Price of the
materials needed to Learn a Spell of each level.
LEARN A SPELL
CONCENTRATE
EXPLORATION
Requirements You have a spellcasting class feature, and the
spell you want to learn is on your magical tradition’s spell list.
You can gain access to a new spell of your tradition from
someone who knows that spell or from magical writing like a
spellbook or scroll. If you can cast spells of multiple traditions,
you can Learn a Spell of any of those traditions, but you must
use the corresponding skill to do so. For example, if you were
a cleric with the bard multiclass archetype, you couldn’t use
Religion to add an occult spell to your bardic spell repertoire.
To learn the spell, you must do the following:
•	 Spend 1 hour per level of the spell, during which you
must remain in conversation with a person who knows
the spell or have the magical writing in your possession.
•	 Have materials with the Price indicated in Table 4–3.
•	 Attempt a skill check for the skill corresponding to your
tradition (DC determined by the GM, often close to the
DC on Table 4–3). Uncommon or rare spells have higher
DCs; full guidelines for the GM appear on page 503.
If you have a spellbook, Learning a Spell lets you add the
spell to your spellbook; if you prepare spells from a list, it’s
added to your list; if you have a spell repertoire, you can select
it when you add or swap spells.
Critical Success You expend half the materials and learn the spell.
Success You expend the materials and learn the spell.
Failure You fail to learn the spell but can try again after you
gain a level. The materials aren’t expended.
Critical Failure As failure, plus you expend half the materials.
TABLE 4–3: LEARNING A SPELL

Spell Level
Price
Typical DC

1st or cantrip
2 gp
15

2nd
6 gp
18

3rd
16 gp
20

4th
36 gp
23

5th
70 gp
26

6th
140 gp
28

7th
300 gp
31

8th
650 gp
34

9th
1,500 gp
36

10th
7,000 gp
41
Recall Knowledge (Untrained)
To remember useful information on a topic, you can
attempt to Recall Knowledge. You might know basic
information about something without needing to attempt
a check, but Recall Knowledge requires you to stop and
think for a moment so you can recollect more specific
Core Rulebook
238
