Damage has a number of different types and categories,
which are described below.
Physical Damage
Damage dealt by weapons, many physical hazards, and a
handful of spells is collectively called physical damage. The
main types of physical damage are bludgeoning, piercing,
and slashing. Bludgeoning damage comes from weapons
and hazards that deal blunt-force trauma, like a hit from
a club or being dashed against rocks. Piercing damage is
dealt from stabs and punctures, whether from a dragon’s
fangs or the thrust of a spear. Slashing damage is delivered
by a cut, be it the swing of the sword or the blow from a
scythe blades trap.
Ghosts and other incorporeal creatures have a high
resistance to physical attacks that aren’t magical (attacks
that lack the magical trait). Furthermore, most incorporeal
creatures have additional, though lower, resistance to
magical physical damage (such as damage dealt from a
mace with the magical trait) and most other damage types.
Energy Damage
Many spells and other magical effects deal energy damage.
Energy damage is also dealt from effects in the world, such
as the biting cold of a blizzard to a raging forest fire. The
main types of energy damage are acid, cold, electricity, fire,
and sonic. Acid damage can be delivered by gases, liquids,
and certain solids that dissolve flesh, and sometimes
harder materials. Cold damage freezes material by way
of contact with chilling gases and ice. Electricity damage
comes from the discharge of powerful lightning and sparks.
Fire damage burns through heat and combustion. Sonic
damage assaults matter with high-frequency vibration
and sound waves. Many times, you deal energy damage
by casting magic spells, and doing so is often useful
against creatures that have immunities or resistances to
physical damage.
Two special types of energy damage specifically target
the living and the undead. Positive energy often manifests
as healing energy to living creatures but can create
positive damage that withers undead bodies and disrupts
and injures incorporeal undead. Negative energy often
revivifies the unnatural, unliving power of undead, while
manifesting as negative damage that gnaws at the living.
Powerful and pure magical energy can manifest itself
as force damage. Few things can resist this type of
damage—not even incorporeal creatures such as ghosts
and wraiths.
Alignment Damage
Weapons and effects keyed to a particular alignment
can deal chaotic, evil, good, or lawful damage. These
damage types apply only to creatures that have the
opposing alignment trait. Chaotic damage harms only
lawful creatures, evil damage harms only good creatures,
good damage harms only evil creatures, and lawful damage
harms only chaotic creatures.
Mental Damage
Sometimes an effect can target the mind with enough
psychic force to actually deal damage to the creature. When
it does, it deals mental damage. Mindless creatures and
those with only programmed or rudimentary intelligence
are often immune to mental damage and effects.
Poison Damage
Venoms, toxins and the like can deal poison damage, which
affects creatures by way of contact, ingestion, inhalation,
or injury. In addition to coming from monster attacks,
alchemical items, and spells, poison damage is often caused
by ongoing afflictions, which follow special rules described
on page 457.
Bleed Damage
Another special type of physical damage is bleed damage.
This is persistent damage that represents loss of blood.
As such, it has no effect on nonliving creatures or living
creatures that don’t need blood to live. Weaknesses and
resistances to physical damage apply.
Precision Damage
Sometimes you are able to make the most of your attack
through sheer precision. When you hit with an ability that
grants you precision damage, you increase the attack’s listed
damage, using the same damage type, rather than tracking a
separate pool of damage. For example, a non-magical dagger
Strike that deals 1d6 precision damage from a rogue’s sneak
attack increases the piercing damage by 1d6.
Some creatures are immune to precision damage,
regardless of the damage type; these are often amorphous
creatures that lack vulnerable anatomy. A creature immune
to precision damage would ignore the 1d6 precision damage
in the example above, but it would still take the rest of
the piercing damage from the Strike. Since precision
damage is always the same type of damage as the attack
it’s augmenting, a creature that is resistant to physical
damage, like a gargoyle, would resist not only the dagger’s
damage but also the precision damage, even though it is not
specifically resistant to precision damage.
Precious Materials
While not their own damage category, precious materials can
modify damage to penetrate a creature’s resistances or take
advantage of its weaknesses. For instance, silver weapons
are particularly effective against lycanthropes and bypass
the resistances to physical damage that most devils have.
DAMAGE TYPES
Core Rulebook
452
