Focus spells are automatically heightened to half your
level rounded up. Focus spells don’t require spell slots, nor
can you cast them using spell slots. Taking feats can give
you more focus spells and increase the size of your focus
pool, though your focus pool can never hold more than
3 points. The full rules are on page 300.
Reading a Bloodline Entry
A bloodline entry contains the following information.
Spell List You use this magical tradition and spell list.
Bloodline Skills You become trained in the listed skills.
Granted Spells You automatically add the spells listed here
to your spell repertoire, in addition to those you gain through
sorcerer spellcasting. At 1st level, you gain a cantrip and a
1st-level spell. You learn the other spells on the list as soon as
you gain the ability to cast sorcerer spells of that level.
Bloodline Spells You automatically gain the initial bloodline
spell at 1st level and can gain more by selecting the Advanced
Bloodline and Greater Bloodline feats.
Blood Magic Whenever you cast a bloodline spell using Focus
Points or a granted spell from your bloodline using a spell slot,
you gain a blood magic effect. If the blood magic offers a choice,
make it before resolving the spell. The blood magic effect occurs
after resolving any checks for the spell’s initial effects and,
against a foe, applies only if the spell is a successful attack or
the foe fails its saving throw. If the spell has an area, you must
designate yourself or one target in the area when you cast the
spell to be the target of the blood magic effect. All references
to spell level refer to the level of the spell you cast.
Aberrant
Something speaks to you from beyond the stars
or below the earth. Ancient and unknowable,
this alien influence presses against your mind.
Spell List occult (page 311)
Bloodline Skills Intimidation, Occultism
Granted Spells cantrip: daze; 1st: spider sting; 2nd:
touch of idiocy; 3rd: vampiric touch; 4th: confusion;
5th: black tentacles; 6th: feeblemind; 7th: warp mind; 8th:
uncontrollable dance; 9th: unfathomable song
Bloodline Spells initial: tentacular limbs;
advanced:
aberrant whispers;
greater:
unusual anatomy
Blood Magic Aberrant whispers shield
one target’s mind or your own,
granting a +2 status bonus to
Will saving throws for 1 round.
Angelic
One of your forebears hailed
from a celestial realm, or your ancestors’
devotion led to their lineage being blessed.
Spell List divine (page 309)
Bloodline Skills Diplomacy, Religion
Granted Spells cantrip: light; 1st: heal; 2nd:
spiritual weapon; 3rd: searing light; 4th: divine
wrath; 5th: flame strike; 6th: blade barrier; 7th: divine decree;
8th: divine aura; 9th: foresight
Bloodline Spells initial: angelic halo; advanced: angelic wings;
greater: celestial brand
Blood Magic An angelic aura protects you or one target,
granting a +1 status bonus to saving throws for 1 round.
Demonic
Demons debase all they touch. One of your ancestors fell
victim to their corruption, and you are burdened by that sin.
Spell List divine (page 309)
Bloodline Skills Intimidation, Religion
Granted Spells cantrip: acid splash; 1st: fear; 2nd: enlarge;
3rd: slow; 4th: divine wrath; 5th: Abyssal plague; 6th:
disintegrate; 7th: divine decree; 8th: divine aura; 9th: implosion
195
3
CLASSES
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Skills
Feats
Equipment
Spells
The Age of
Lost OMENS
Playing the
Game
Game
mastering
Crafting
& Treasure
Appendix
