and steaming jungles. They were used as slaves in ancient
Thassilon, where they were ruled by magic-infused rune
giants and forced to erect enormous monuments that
remain to this day in Varisia, Belkzen, and the Lands of
the Linnorm Kings. But now the giant tribes of northern
Avistan are scattered across the land, largely unaware
they once had a society that was destroyed and reshaped
by the ancient empire of Thassilon.
Gnolls
Hyena-headed gnolls, ever seeking new slaves to perform
menial labor, make for unreliable mercenaries but excel at
hunting intelligent prey. Gnolls dwell primarily in northern
Garund and are particularly common in Osirion, Katapesh,
and Nex. Indeed, gnolls can be found operating openly as
bodyguards, mercenaries, and slavers in cities like Katapesh.
Goblinoids
Goblins are certainly the most widespread and recognized
goblinoids, but their taller, more militaristic hobgoblin
kin rule the new kingdom of Oprak near Lake Encarthan.
The looming, murderous creatures known as bugbears
remain loners who eschew social structures, preferring to
pursue their sadistic hobbies on their own.
Kobolds
Industrious and fecund, kobolds thrive anywhere they
can, often dwelling in narrow confines and twisting
burrows in the hinterlands of rural regions or spreading
throughout the sewers of urban centers. These small,
reptilian humanoids share many traits with dragons—
but courage, might, and an intimidating presence are
certainly not among them!
Leshys
The first leshys were grown by druids as minions, but over
time these strange, plantlike creatures have diversified
and now take many forms. Leshys have yet to organize or
form nations of their own, but considering how quickly
their numbers have grown and how swiftly they adapt to
new regions, a leshy nation seems all but guaranteed in
the near future.
Lizardfolk
Once widespread in Avistan and Garund, the isolationist
lizardfolk, also known as iruxis, have been forced farther
and farther into their forests and swamps by climate
change and the rapid expansion of other humanoids.
Normally peaceful, lizardfolk can be driven to war by
encroaching civilization and power-hungry lizardfolk
leaders—the latter are disturbingly common in the
Mwangi Expanse and the River Kingdoms.
Orcs
Most orcs currently regard the Hold of Belkzen as their
ancestral land, despite the fact that they once called the
upper reaches of the Darklands home. After living in a
violent and brutal culture built on conquest and strength,
some orcs of the Hold of Belkzen have begun to consider
other means of securing
their lands.
Planar Scions
A wide variety of planar scions
dwell in the Inner Sea region, including
the descendants of celestials and fiends who
have mixed their bloodlines with those of mortals,
and other lineages that arose from the influence of the
Elemental Planes. In Cheliax, those who exhibit diabolic
influences are particularly despised, as the leaders of that
nation see them as examples of mortals who succumbed
to fiendish influence instead of commanding devils as
minions and slaves.
Serpentfolk
Serpentfolk once ruled the second layer of the Darklands
along with much of the surface of Garund and Avistan.
Azlant’s expansion into the Inner Sea region long before
Earthfall led to a terrible war between the two peoples.
When Azlant proved the victor, the surviving serpentfolk
fled into the Darklands; they are nearly extinct today.
Core Rulebook
434
KOBOLD
