Listed on these pages are brief descriptions of many
creatures that have held important cultural, regional,
or historical roles on Golarion, particularly in the Inner
Sea region.
Alghollthus
Perhaps the oldest intelligent creatures on Golarion,
the alghollthus ruled vast empires in the depths of the
world’s oceans for eons before the first humans came
to be. In fact, according to some of their wall carvings,
they created the first human beings. Whether or not this
claim is true is impossible to prove, but these creatures—
from the sinister aboleths to their shape-changing
rulers, the veiled masters—have certainly been a part of
the world for a long, long time. Moreover, their claim
to have existed on Golarion before the gods themselves
turned their divine eyes upon the world carries some
disturbing implications.
Demons
Normally bound to the Abyss, demons can be
found wherever cults or evil spellcasters exist
to call them to this world. Two notable locations,
the Worldwound in the north and the Tanglebriar in
southern Kyonin, deserve special mention, for here the
demons of the Abyss have established lasting presences.
Devils
Although the rulers of Cheliax maintain that Hell is but a
blueprint and devilkind is just a tool the clever spellcasters
of House Thrune use to maintain control over their
nation (as well as their decadent lifestyle), devils have
an insidious hold over that nation. With the state
formally devoted to Asmodeus and powerful orders
of Hellknights serving as mercenary arbiters of law, it
should come as no surprise that devils are unusually
common in Cheliax and the neighboring realms.
Dragons
Dragons are rightfully counted among the
most legendary of monsters in the Inner Sea
region. Most prefer to dwell in remote lairs,
swooping down to interact with humanity
only when their violent tempers push them
to raid. Good dragons may seem less common
than their evil kin, but only because they have less of an
urge to mingle with humanoids.
Genies
The nation of Qadira has a long history with genies,
but geniekind’s involvement with the Inner Sea region
is certainly not limited to that nation. They serve as
architects and creators of impossibilities on the isle of
Jalmeray, and in Katapesh they are rumored to be infused
into the very stone and soil of the land.
Giants
Countless tribes and varieties of these
massive humanoids rule the rugged
reaches of the world, from volcanic
mountain ranges and stinking
marshlands to trackless badlands
Creatures
The six humanoid ancestries are far from Golarion’s only inhabitants. Many other
creatures dwell in the world, some kindly and others cruel, some wild and others
organized, some anthropomorphic and others completely monstrous. Even creatures
that are usually foes of civilization, and whom brave adventurers face in battle, can
sometimes be reasoned with or even befriended. Not all of them are evil, and some are
actively helpful to their neighbors. And some, of course, simply want to be left alone.
THE AGE OF LOST OMENS
433
8
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Skills
Feats
Equipment
Spells
The Age of
Lost OMENS
Playing the
Game
Game
mastering
Crafting
& Treasure
Appendix
