You’re trained in the Athletics skill and the Labor Lore skill.
You gain the Hefty Hauler skill feat in Athletics.
MARTIAL DISCIPLE
BACKGROUND
You dedicated yourself to intense training and rigorous
study to become a great warrior. The school you attended
might have been a traditionalist monastery, an elite
military academy, or the local branch of a prestigious
mercenary organization.
Choose two ability boosts. One must be to Strength or
Dexterity, and one is a free ability boost.
You’re trained in your choice of the Acrobatics or Athletics
skill. You gain a skill feat: Cat Fall if you chose Acrobatics or
Quick Jump if you chose Athletics. You’re also trained in the
Warfare Lore skill.
MERCHANT
BACKGROUND
In a dusty shop, market stall, or merchant caravan, you
bartered wares for coin and trade goods. The skills you picked
up still apply in the adventuring life, in which a good deal on a
suit of armor could prevent your death.
Choose two ability boosts. One must be to Intelligence or
Charisma, and one is a free ability boost.
You’re trained in the Diplomacy skill and the Mercantile
Lore skill. You gain the Bargain Hunter skill feat.
MINER
BACKGROUND
You earned a living wrenching precious minerals from the
lightless depths of the earth. Adventuring might have seemed
lucrative or glamorous compared to this backbreaking labor—
and if you have to head back underground, this time you plan
to do so armed with a real weapon instead of a miner’s pick.
Choose two ability boosts. One must be to Strength or
Wisdom, and one is a free ability boost.
You’re trained in the Survival skill and the Mining
Lore skill. You gain the Terrain Expertise skill feat with
underground terrain.
NOBLE
BACKGROUND
To the common folk, the life of a noble seems
one of idyllic luxury, but growing up
as a noble or member of the aspiring
gentry, you know the reality: a noble’s
lot is obligation and intrigue. Whether
you seek to escape your duties by
adventuring or to better your station,
you have traded silks and pageantry for
an adventurer’s life.
Choose two ability boosts. One
must be to Intelligence or Charisma,
and one is a free ability boost.
You’re trained in the Society
skill and your choice of the
Genealogy Lore or Heraldry Lore
skill. You gain the Courtly Graces
skill feat.
NOMAD
BACKGROUND
Traveling far and wide, you picked up basic tactics for
surviving on the road and in unknown lands, getting by with
few supplies and even fewer comforts. As an adventurer, you
travel still, often into even more dangerous places.
Choose two ability boosts. One must be to Constitution or
Wisdom, and one is a free ability boost.
You’re trained in the Survival skill and a Lore skill related
to one terrain you traveled in (such as Desert Lore or Swamp
Lore). You gain the Assurance skill feat with Survival.
PRISONER
BACKGROUND
You might have been imprisoned for crimes (whether you were
guilty or not), or enslaved for some part of your upbringing.
In your adventuring life, you take full advantage of your
newfound freedom.
Choose two ability boosts. One must be to Strength or
Constitution, and one is a free ability boost.
You’re trained in the Stealth skill and the Underworld Lore
skill. You gain the Experienced Smuggler skill feat.
SAILOR
BACKGROUND
You heard the call of the sea from a young age. Perhaps you
signed onto a merchant’s vessel, joined the navy, or even fell
in with a crew of pirates and scalawags.
Choose two ability boosts. One must be to Strength or
Dexterity, and one is a free ability boost.
You’re trained in the Athletics skill and the Sailing Lore skill.
You gain the Underwater Marauder skill feat.
SCHOLAR
BACKGROUND
You have a knack for learning, and sequestered yourself
from the outside world to learn all you could. You read
2
Ancestries & backgrounds
63
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Skills
Feats
Equipment
Spells
The Age of
Lost OMENS
Playing the
Game
Game
mastering
Crafting
& Treasure
Appendix
