•	 Weapon Choose acid, cold, electricity, fire, or sonic.
The weapon deals an extra 1d4 damage of that type.
Increase this extra damage to 1d6 if you have a domain
spell with a trait matching that type (such as fire).
10TH LEVEL
CASTIGATING WEAPON
FEAT 10
CLERIC
Prerequisites Holy Castigation
The force of your deity’s castigation strengthens your body so
you can strike down the wicked. After you damage a fiend using
a heal spell, your weapon or unarmed Strikes deal extra good
damage to fiends equal to half the level of the heal spell until
the end of your next turn. This is cumulative with any good
damage the weapon already deals (such as from a holy rune).
HEROIC RECOVERY [one-action]
FEAT 10
CLERIC
CONCENTRATE
METAMAGIC
Prerequisites healing font, good alignment
The restorative power of your healing invigorates the
recipient. If the next action you use is to cast heal targeting
a single living creature and the target regains Hit Points from
the spell, it also gains three bonuses until the end of its next
turn: a +5-foot status bonus to its Speed, a +1 status bonus to
attack rolls, and a +1 status bonus to damage rolls.
IMPROVED COMMAND UNDEAD
FEAT 10
CLERIC
Prerequisites harmful font, Command Undead, evil alignment
Undead creatures find it all but impossible to resist your
commands. When you use Command Undead, if the undead
succeeds at its save but doesn’t critically succeed, it is your
minion for 1 round. If the undead fails its save, it is your
minion for 10 minutes. If it critically fails, it is your minion for
24 hours.
REPLENISHMENT OF WAR
FEAT 10
CLERIC
Prerequisites expert in your deity’s favored weapon
Striking out against your enemies draws praise and protection
from your deity. When you damage a creature with a Strike
using your deity’s favored weapon, you gain a number of
temporary Hit Points equal to half your level, or equal to your
level if the Strike was a critical hit. These temporary Hit Points
last until the start of your next turn.
12TH LEVEL
DEFENSIVE RECOVERY [one-action]
FEAT 12
CLERIC
CONCENTRATE
METAMAGIC
Prerequisites harmful font or healing font
Your faith provides temporary protection in addition to healing.
If the next action you use is to cast harm or heal on a single
target and the target regains Hit Points from the spell, it also
gains a +2 status bonus to AC and saving throws for 1 round.
DOMAIN FOCUS
FEAT 12
CLERIC
Prerequisites one or more domain spells
Your devotion to your deity’s domains grows greater, and so
does the power granted to you. If you have spent at least 2
Focus Points since the last time you Refocused, you recover 2
Focus Points when you Refocus instead of 1.
EMBLAZON ANTIMAGIC
FEAT 12
CLERIC
Prerequisites Emblazon Armament
Your deity’s symbol protects against offensive magic. When
you Emblazon an Armament, you can choose from the
following effects instead of the effects listed in that feat.
These effects have the same restrictions as the base options.
•	 Shield When the wielder has the shield raised, they
gain the shield’s circumstance bonus to saving throws
against magic, and they can use Shield Block against
damage from their enemies’ spells.
•	 Weapon When the weapon’s wielder critically hits
with the weapon, they can attempt to counteract a
spell on their target, using their level as the counteract
level. If they attempt to do so, the emblazoned symbol
immediately disappears.
SHARED REPLENISHMENT
FEAT 12
CLERIC
Prerequisites Replenishment of War
When your deity blesses your warlike acts, you can extend
that favor to your allies. You can grant the temporary Hit Points
from Replenishment of War to an ally within 10 feet instead
of gaining them yourself. You can grant these temporary Hit
Points to a different ally each time, meaning you might be able
to grant them to multiple creatures in a single turn.
14TH LEVEL
DEITY’S PROTECTION
FEAT 14
CLERIC
Prerequisites Advanced Domain
When you call upon your deity’s power to fulfill the promise
of their domain, you gain divine protection. After you cast a
domain spell, you gain resistance to all damage until the start
of your next turn. The amount of resistance is equal to the
level of the domain spell you cast.
EXTEND ARMAMENT ALIGNMENT
FEAT 14
CLERIC
Prerequisites Align Armament
The alignment you impose on a weapon lasts much longer. The
duration of Align Armament increases to 1 minute.
FAST CHANNEL 
FEAT 14
CLERIC
Prerequisites harmful font or healing font
Divine power is always at your fingertips, swiftly responding
125
3
CLASSES
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Skills
Feats
Equipment
Spells
The Age of
Lost OMENS
Playing the
Game
Game
mastering
Crafting
& Treasure
Appendix
