Seer Elf
You have an inborn ability to detect and understand
magical phenomena. You can cast the detect magic cantrip
as an arcane innate spell at will. A cantrip is heightened to
a spell level equal to half your level rounded up.
In addition, you gain a +1 circumstance bonus to
checks to Identify Magic and to Decipher Writing of
a magical nature. These skill actions typically use the
Arcana, Nature, Occultism, or Religion skill.
Whisper Elf
Your ears are finely tuned, able to detect even the slightest
whispers of sound. As long as you can hear normally, you
can use the Seek action to sense undetected creatures in
a 60-foot cone instead of a 30-foot cone. You also gain
a +2 circumstance bonus to locate undetected creatures
that you could hear within 30 feet with a Seek action.
Woodland Elf
You’re adapted to life in the forest or the deep jungle,
and you know how to climb trees and use foliage to your
advantage. When Climbing trees, vines, and other foliage,
you move at half your Speed on a success and at full
Speed on a critical success (and you move at full Speed
on a success if you have Quick Climb). This doesn’t affect
you if you’re using a climb Speed.
You can always use the Take Cover action when you
are within forest terrain to gain cover, even if you’re not
next to an obstacle you can Take Cover behind.
Ancestry Feats
At 1st level, you gain one ancestry feat, and you gain an
additional ancestry feat every 4 levels thereafter (at 5th,
9th, 13th, and 17th levels). As an elf, you select from
among the following ancestry feats.
1ST LEVEL
ANCESTRAL LONGEVITY
FEAT 1
ELF
Prerequisites at least 100 years old
You have accumulated a vast array of lived knowledge over
the years. During your daily preparations, you can reflect
upon your life experiences to gain the trained proficiency
rank in one skill of your choice. This proficiency lasts until
you prepare again. Since this proficiency is temporary, you
can’t use it as a prerequisite for a skill increase or a permanent
character option like a feat.
ELVEN LORE
FEAT 1
ELF
You’ve studied in traditional elven arts, learning about
arcane magic and the world around you. You gain the
trained proficiency rank in Arcana and Nature. If you would
automatically become trained in one of those skills (from
your background or class, for example), you instead become
trained in a skill of your choice. You also become trained in
Elven Lore.
ELVEN WEAPON FAMILIARITY
FEAT 1
ELF
You favor bows and other elegant weapons. You are trained
with longbows, composite longbows, longswords, rapiers,
shortbows, and composite shortbows.
In addition, you gain access to all uncommon elf weapons.
For the purpose of determining your proficiency, martial elf
weapons are simple weapons and advanced elf weapons are
martial weapons.
FORLORN
FEAT 1
ELF
Watching your friends age and die fills you with moroseness
that protects you against harmful emotions. You gain a +1
circumstance bonus to saving throws against emotion effects.
If you roll a success on a saving throw against an emotion
effect, you get a critical success instead.
NIMBLE ELF
FEAT 1
ELF
Your muscles are tightly honed. Your Speed increases by 5 feet.
OTHERWORLDLY MAGIC
FEAT 1
ELF
Your elven magic manifests as a simple arcane spell, even if
you aren’t formally trained in magic. Choose one cantrip from
the arcane spell list (page 307). You can cast this cantrip as an
arcane innate spell at will. A cantrip is heightened to a spell
level equal to half your level rounded up.
UNWAVERING MIEN
FEAT 1
ELF
Your mystic control and meditations allow you to resist
external influences upon your consciousness. Whenever you
are affected by a mental effect that lasts at least 2 rounds, you
can reduce the duration by 1 round.
You still require natural sleep, but you treat your saving
throws against effects that would cause you to fall asleep as
one degree of success better. This protects only against sleep
effects, not against other forms of falling unconscious.
5TH LEVEL
AGELESS PATIENCE
FEAT 5
ELF
You work at a pace born from longevity that enhances your
thoroughness. You can voluntarily spend twice as much
time as normal on a Perception check or skill check to gain
a +2 circumstance bonus to that check. You also don’t treat
a natural 1 as worse than usual on these checks; you get a
Core Rulebook
40
