Detecting a Hazard
Every hazard has a trigger of some kind that sets its
dangers in motion. For traps, this could be a mechanism
like a trip wire or a pressure plate, while for an
environmental hazard or haunt, the trigger may simply be
proximity. When characters approach a hazard, they have
a chance of finding the trigger area or mechanism before
triggering the hazard. They automatically receive a check
to detect hazards unless the hazards require a minimum
proficiency rank to do so.
During exploration, determine whether the party
detects a hazard when the PCs first enter the general area
in which it appears. If the hazard doesn’t list a minimum
proficiency rank, roll a secret Perception check against
the hazard’s Stealth DC for each PC. For hazards with a
minimum proficiency rank, roll only if someone is actively
searching (using the Search activity while exploring or
the Seek action in an encounter), and only if they have the
listed proficiency rank or higher. Anyone who succeeds
becomes aware of the hazard, and you can describe what
they notice.
Magical hazards that don’t have a minimum proficiency
rank can be found using detect magic, but this spell
doesn’t provide enough information to understand or
disable the hazard—it only reveals the hazard’s presence.
Determining a magical hazard’s properties thoroughly
enough to disable it requires either the use of more
powerful magic or a successful skill check, likely using
Identify Magic or Recall Knowledge. Magical hazards
with a minimum proficiency rank cannot be found with
detect magic at all.
Triggering a Hazard
If the group fails to detect a hazard and the hazard’s
trigger is a standard part of traveling (such as stepping
on a floor plate or moving through a magical sensor
while walking), the hazard’s reaction occurs. Hazards
that would be triggered only when someone directly
manipulates the environment—by opening a door, for
example—use their reactions only if a PC explicitly takes
that action.
Reaction or Free Action
Most hazards have reactions that occur when they’re
triggered. For simple hazards, the reaction is the entirety
of the hazard’s effect. For complex hazards, the reaction
may also cause the hazard to roll initiative, either starting
a combat encounter or joining one already in progress,
and the hazard continues to pose a threat over multiple
rounds. Some hazards have a triggered free action instead
of a reaction; for instance, quicksand can suck down
multiple creatures per round.
Routine
A complex hazard usually follows a set of preprogrammed
actions called a routine. Once triggered, the hazard first
performs its initial reaction; then, if the PCs are not yet
in encounter mode, they should roll initiative. (If they’re
already in encounter mode, their initiative remains
the same.) The hazard might tell you to roll initiative
for it—in this case, the hazard rolls initiative using its
Stealth modifier.
After this happens, the hazard follows its routine each
round on its initiative. The number of actions a hazard
can take each round, as well as what they can be used for,
depend on the hazard.
Resetting a Hazard
Some hazards can be reset, allowing them to be triggered
again. This can occur automatically, as for quicksand,
whose surface settles after 24 hours, or manually, like a
hidden pit, whose trapdoor must be closed for the pit to
become hidden again.
Hazards
Dungeons are rife with devious traps meant to protect the treasures within. These range
from mechanical devices that shoot darts or drop heavy blocks to magic runes that
explode into bursts of flame. In addition to traps, adventurers may stumble into other
types of hazards, including naturally occurring environmental hazards, mysterious
hauntings, and more.
MONSTERS AND HAZARDS
The statistics for NPCs and monsters usually don’t list their
proficiency ranks. Most of the time, they don’t need to deal
with detecting or disabling hazards the way PCs do, so you
don’t need this information. However, if a PC resets a trap
in a monster’s path or plans to lure a monster into a hazard,
you can improvise this information.
For Perception, a monster is usually an expert at 3rd
or 4th level, a master at 8th or 9th level, and legendary
at 16th or 17th level. If the monster has Thievery listed in
its skills, it has the highest proficiency possible for its level
(trained at 1st, expert at 3rd, master at 7th, and legendary
at 15th); otherwise, it’s untrained. Of course, an individual
monster might deviate from these guidelines, especially if
it’s mindless or not very perceptive.
Core Rulebook
520
