•	 Decipher Writing on occult topics, including
complex metaphysical systems, syncretic principles,
weird philosophies, and incoherent ramblings.
•	 Identify Magic, particularly occult magic.
•	 Learn a Spell from the occult tradition.
Performance (Cha)
You are skilled at a form of performance, using your
talents to impress a crowd or make a living.
Basic Competence
Some performances require you to be more than just
charismatic, and if you don’t meet the demands of the
art form or the audience, the GM might apply a penalty
based on the relevant ability score. For example, if
you’re dancing and have a negative Dexterity modifier,
you might take a penalty to your attempt at dancing.
Likewise, if you are orating and have a negative
Intelligence modifier, you might have to hope your
raw Charisma can overcome the penalties from your
intellectual shortcomings—or ask someone to help write
your speeches!
Performance Traits
When you use an action that utilizes the Performance
skill, it gains one or more traits relevant to the type of
performance. The GM might change these depending on
the circumstances, but the most common performance-
based traits are listed below.
Performance
Additional Traits
Act or perform comedy
Auditory, linguistic, and visual
Dance
Move and visual
Play an instrument
Auditory and manipulate
Orate or sing
Auditory and linguistic
PERFORM [one-action]
CONCENTRATE
When making a brief performance—one song, a quick dance,
or a few jokes—you use the Perform action. This action is most
useful when you want to prove your capability or impress
someone quickly. Performing rarely has an impact on its
own, but it might influence the DCs of subsequent Diplomacy
checks against the observers—or even change their attitudes—
if the GM sees fit.
Critical Success Your performance impresses the observers,
and they’re likely to share stories of your ability.
Success You prove yourself, and observers appreciate the
quality of your performance.
Failure Your performance falls flat.
Critical Failure You demonstrate only incompetence.
Sample Perform Tasks
Untrained audience of commoners
Trained audience of artisans
Expert audience of merchants or minor nobles
Master audience of high nobility or minor royalty
Legendary audience of major royalty or otherworldly beings
Performance Trained Action
You must be trained in Performance to use it to Earn
Income (page 236).
•	 Earn Income by staging a performance.
Religion (Wis)
The secrets of deities, dogma, faith, and the realms of
divine creatures both sublime and sinister are open to
you. You also understand how magic works, though
your training imparts a religious slant to that knowledge.
Even if you’re untrained in Religion, you can use it to Recall
Knowledge (page 238).
•	 Recall Knowledge about divine agents, the finer
points of theology, obscure myths regarding a
faith, and creatures of religious significance (like
celestials, fiends, and undead), the Outer Sphere,
and the Positive and Negative Energy Planes.
Religion Trained Actions
You must be trained in Religion to use it for the following
general skill actions (page 234).
•	 Decipher Writing of a religious nature, including
allegories, homilies, and proverbs.
•	 Identify Magic, particularly divine magic.
•	 Learn a Spell from the divine tradition.
Society (Int)
You understand the people and systems that make
civilization run, and you know the historical events that
make societies what they are today. Further, you can use
that knowledge to navigate the complex physical, societal,
and economic workings of settlements. Even if you’re
untrained in Society, you can use it for the following
general skill actions (page 234).
•	 Recall Knowledge about local history, important
personalities, legal institutions, societal structure,
and humanoid cultures. The GM might allow
Society to apply to other creatures that are major
elements of society in your region, such as the
draconic nobility in a kingdom of humans ruled
by dragons.
•	 Subsist in a settlement by finding shelter, scrounging,
or begging for food.
Society Trained Actions
You must be trained in Society to use it to Decipher
Writing (page 234).
•	 Decipher Writing that’s a coded message, text
written in an incomplete or archaic form, or in
some cases, text in a language you don’t know.
Core Rulebook
250
