both hands. The GM sets the DC, but it’s usually about the same
DC to Repair a given item as it is to Craft it in the first place. You
can’t Repair a destroyed item.
Critical Success You restore 10 Hit Points to the item, plus an
additional 10 Hit Points per proficiency rank you have in
Crafting (a total of 20 HP if you’re trained, 30 HP if you’re an
expert, 40 HP if you’re a master, or 50 HP if you’re legendary).
Success You restore 5 Hit Points to the item, plus an additional
5 per proficiency rank you have in Crafting (for a total of
10 HP if you are trained, 15 HP if you’re an expert, 20 HP if
you’re a master, or 25 HP if you’re legendary).
Critical Failure You deal 2d6 damage to the item. Apply the
item’s Hardness to this damage.
Crafting Trained Actions
You must be trained in Crafting to use it to Earn Income
(page 236).
•	 Earn Income by crafting goods for the market.
CRAFT
DOWNTIME
MANIPULATE
You can make an item from raw materials. You need the
Alchemical Crafting skill feat to create alchemical items, the
Magical Crafting skill feat to create magic items, and the Snare
Crafting feat to create snares.
To Craft an item, you must meet the following requirements:
•	 The item is your level or lower. An item that doesn’t list
a level is level 0. If the item is 9th level or higher, you
must be a master in Crafting, and if it’s 16th or higher,
you must be legendary.
•	 You have the formula for the item; see Getting
Formulas below for more information.
•	 You have an appropriate set of tools and, in many
cases, a workshop. For example, you need access to a
smithy to forge a metal shield.
•	 You must supply raw materials worth at least half the
item’s Price. You always expend at least that amount
of raw materials when you Craft successfully. If you’re
in a settlement, you can usually spend currency to get
the amount of raw materials you need, except in the
case of rarer precious materials.
You must spend 4 days at work, at which point you attempt
a Crafting check. The GM determines the DC to Craft the item
based on its level, rarity, and other circumstances.
If your attempt to create the item is successful, you expend
the raw materials you supplied. You can pay the remaining
portion of the item’s Price in materials to complete the item
immediately, or you can spend additional downtime days
working on it. For each additional day you spend, reduce
the value of the materials you need to expend to complete
the item. This amount is determined using Table 4–2: Income
Earned (page 236), based on your proficiency rank in Crafting
and using your own level instead of a task level. After any of
these downtime days, you can complete the item by spending
the remaining portion of its Price in materials. If the downtime
Core Rulebook
244
