SAMPLE ROGUE
MINOR MAGIC
FEAT 2
ROGUE
You’ve dabbled in a variety of tricks, gaining minor magical
abilities from a particular tradition. Choose arcane, divine,
occult, or primal magic, and gain two cantrips from the
common cantrips available to that tradition.
MOBILITY
FEAT 2
ROGUE
You move in a way that denies your enemies the opportunity
to retaliate. When you take a Stride action to move half your
Speed or less, that movement does not trigger reactions. You
can use Mobility when Climbing, Flying, or Swimming instead
of Striding if you have the corresponding movement type.
QUICK DRAW [one-action]
FEAT 2
ROGUE
You draw your weapon and attack with the same motion. You
Interact to draw a weapon, then Strike with that weapon.
UNBALANCING BLOW
FEAT 2
ROGUE
Prerequisites thief racket
Interweaving your most powerful attacks in a graceful flow,
you temporarily unbalance your foes. Whenever your Strike is
a critical hit and deals damage, the target is flat‑footed against
your attacks until the end of your next turn.
4TH LEVEL
BATTLE ASSESSMENT [one-action]
FEAT 4
ROGUE
SECRET
With careful observation during battle, you identify an
enemy’s strengths and weaknesses. The GM rolls a secret
Perception check for you against the Deception or Stealth DC
(whichever is higher) of an enemy of your choice who is not
concealed from you, hidden from you, or undetected by you,
and who is engaged in combat. The GM might apply a penalty
for the distance between you and the enemy. The enemy is
then temporarily immune to your Battle Assessment for 1 day.
Critical Success The GM chooses two of the following pieces
of information about the enemy to tell you: which of the
enemy’s weaknesses is highest, which of the enemy’s
saving throws has the lowest modifier, one immunity the
enemy has, or which of the enemy’s resistances is highest.
If the event of a tie, the GM should pick one at random.
Success The GM chooses one piece of information from the
above list to tell you about the enemy.
Critical Failure The GM gives you false information (the GM
makes up the information).
DREAD STRIKER
FEAT 4
ROGUE
You capitalize on your enemies’ fear to slip past their defenses.
Any creature that has the frightened condition is also
flat-footed against your attacks.
SCOUNDREL
Your attacks are made deadly through distraction.
ABILITY SCORES
Prioritize Dexterity, plus Charisma to improve your feints.
SKILLS
Acrobatics, Athletics, Crafting, Deception, Diplomacy,
Intimidation, Occultism, Society, Stealth, Thievery
ROGUE’S RACKET
Scoundrel
STARTING FEAT
Trap Finder
HIGHER-LEVEL FEATS
Distracting Feint (2nd), Twist the Knife (6th), Tactical
Debilitations (10th), Perfect Distraction (16th)
Core Rulebook
184
