REVIVAL
SPELL 10
HEALING
NECROMANCY
POSITIVE
Traditions divine, primal
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal
Range 30 feet; Targets dead creatures and living creatures of
your choice within range
Duration sustained up to 1 minute
A burst of healing energy soothes living creatures and
temporarily rouses those recently slain. All living targets regain
10d8+40 Hit Points. In addition, you return any number of dead
targets to life temporarily, with the same effects and limitations
as raise dead (page 362). The raised creatures have a number
of temporary Hit Points equal to the Hit Points you gave living
creatures, but no normal Hit Points. The raised creatures can’t
regain Hit Points or gain temporary Hit Points in other ways, and
once revival’s duration ends, they lose all temporary Hit Points
and die. Revival can’t resurrect creatures killed by disintegrate
or a death effect. It has no effect on undead.
RIGHTEOUS MIGHT
SPELL 6
POLYMORPH
TRANSMUTATION
Traditions divine
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal; Requirements You have a deity.
Duration 1 minute
You focus all your divine energy and transform yourself
into a Medium battle form, similar to your normal form but
armed with powerful divine armaments granted by your
deity. While in this form, you gain the statistics and abilities
listed below. You have hands in this battle form and can use
manipulate actions. You can Dismiss the spell.
You gain the following statistics and abilities:
•	 AC = 20 + your level. Ignore your armor’s check
penalty and Speed reduction.
•	 10 temporary Hit Points.
•	 Speed 40 feet.
•	 Resistance 3 against physical damage.
•	 Darkvision.
•	 A special attack with a righteous armament version
of your favored weapon, which is the only attack
you can use. Your attack modifier with the special
weapon is +21, and your damage bonus is +8 (or +6
for a ranged attack). If your attack modifier with
your deity’s favored weapon is higher, you can use
it instead. You deal three of your weapon’s normal
damage dice, or three damage dice of one size
larger if your weapon is a simple weapon with a
d4 or d6 damage die. The weapon has one of the
following properties that matches your deity’s
alignment: anarchic, axiomatic, holy, unholy. If your
deity is true neutral, you instead deal an extra 1d6
precision damage.
•	 Athletics modifier of +23, unless your own modifier
is higher.
Heightened (8th) Your battle form is Large, and your attacks have
10-foot reach, or 15-foot reach if your deity’s favored weapon
has reach. You must have enough space to expand into or the
spell is lost. You instead gain AC = 21 + your level, 15 temporary
HP, resistance 4 against physical damage, attack modifier +28,
damage bonus +15 (+12 for a ranged attack), and Athletics +29.
ROPE TRICK
SPELL 4
UNCOMMON
CONJURATION
EXTRADIMENSIONAL
Traditions arcane, occult
Cast 10 minutes (material, somatic, verbal)
Range touch; Targets 1 touched piece of rope from 5 to 30
feet long
Duration 8 hours
You cause the target rope to rise vertically into the air. Where it
ends, an extradimensional space opens, connected to the top of
the rope. This space can be reached only by climbing the rope.
The entrance to the space can’t be seen, and it can be
pinpointed only by the presence of the rope. The rope can’t
be removed or hidden, though it can be detached from the
extradimensional space by pulling it with 16,000 pounds of
weight, critically succeeding at an Athletics check against the
spell’s DC, or destroying the rope. The space holds up to eight
Medium creatures and their gear. A Large creature counts as
two Medium creatures, a Huge creature counts as four Medium
creatures, and a Gargantuan creature fills the space on its own.
If the rope is detached or destroyed, or if a creature attempts
to enter the space that would put it over its capacity, the space
begins to unravel. It disappears in 1d4 rounds, depositing the
creatures within safely on the ground below.
SANCTIFIED GROUND
SPELL 3
ABJURATION
CONSECRATION
Traditions divine
Cast 1 minute (material, somatic, verbal); Cost 1 vial of holy water
Area 30-foot burst centered on you
Duration 24 hours
You sanctify the area, sprinkling it with holy water and warding
it against your foes. Choose aberrations, celestials, dragons,
fiends, monitors, or undead. All creatures in the area gain a
+1 status bonus to AC, attack rolls, damage rolls, and saving
throws against the chosen creatures.
SANCTUARY
SPELL 1
ABJURATION
Traditions divine, occult
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal
Range touch; Targets 1 creature
Duration 1 minute
You ward a creature with protective energy that deters enemy
attacks. Creatures attempting to attack the target must
attempt a Will save each time. If the target uses a hostile
action, the spell ends.
Critical Success Sanctuary ends.
Success The creature can attempt its attack and any other
attacks against the target this turn.
Failure The creature can’t attack the target and wastes the
action. It can’t attempt further attacks against the target
this turn.
Core Rulebook
366
