SAMPLE MONK
Requirements You are in Tiger Stance.
You make a fierce swipe with both hands. Make a tiger claw
Strike. It deals two extra weapon damage dice (three extra
dice if you’re 14th level or higher), and you can push the
target 5 feet away as if you had successfully Shoved them.
If the attack is a critical success and deals damage, add your
Strength modifier to the persistent bleed damage from your
tiger claw.
WATER STEP
FEAT 6
MONK
You can Stride across liquid and surfaces that don’t support
your weight. This benefit lasts only during your movement. If
you end your movement on a surface that can’t support you,
you fall in or it collapses as normal.
WHIRLING THROW [one-action]
FEAT 6
MONK
Requirements You have a creature grabbed or restrained.
You propel your grabbed or restrained foe a great distance.
You can throw the creature any distance up to 10 feet, plus
5 feet × your Strength modifier. If you successfully throw the
creature, it takes bludgeoning damage equal to your Strength
modifier plus 1d6 per 10 feet you threw it.
Attempt an Athletics check against the foe’s Fortitude DC. You
take a –2 circumstance penalty to your check if the target is one
size larger than you and a –4 circumstance penalty if it’s larger
than that. You gain a +2 circumstance bonus to your check if the
target is one size smaller than you and a +4 circumstance bonus
if it’s smaller than that.
Critical Success You throw the creature the desired distance
and it lands prone.
Success You throw the creature the desired distance.
Failure You don’t throw the creature.
Critical Failure You don’t throw the creature, and it’s no longer
grabbed or restrained by you.
WOLF DRAG [two-actions]
FEAT 6
MONK
Prerequisites Wolf Stance
Requirements You are in Wolf Stance.
You rip your enemy off their feet. Make a wolf jaw Strike. Your
wolf jaw gains the fatal d12 trait for this Strike, and if the attack
succeeds, you knock the target prone.
8TH LEVEL
ARROW SNATCHING
FEAT 8
MONK
Prerequisite Deflect Arrow
You pluck missiles from the air and hurl them back at their
source. When you successfully deflect an attack with Deflect
Arrow, as part of that reaction, you can immediately make a
ranged Strike against the attacker using the projectile you
deflected. This is a thrown weapon with the same range
increment and effect on a hit as the triggering attack.
KI MONK
Centering yourself, you call forth the internal magical
energy that dwells within all living things. This ki
can empower your body or flash out as pure energy.
ABILITY SCORES
Prioritize Strength. Wisdom empowers your ki spells,
Perception, and Will saves. Constitution and Dexterity
help your physical defenses.
SKILLS
Acrobatics, Athletics, Occultism, Stealth
STARTING FEAT
Ki Strike (occult)
HIGHER-LEVEL FEATS
Mountain Stance (1st), Elemental Fist (2nd), Wholeness
of Body (4th), Ki Blast (6th), Meditative Focus (12th),
Quivering Palm (16th), Empty Body (20th)
3
Core Rulebook
162
Core Rulebook
162
