Dwarf
Dwarves have a well-earned reputation as a stoic and stern people, ensconced within citadels
and cities carved from solid rock. While some see them as dour and humorless crafters of
stone and metal, dwarves and those who have spent time among them understand their
unbridled zeal for their work, caring far more about quality than quantity. To a stranger,
they can seem untrusting and clannish, but to their friends and family, they are warm and
caring, their halls filled with the sounds of laughter and hammers hitting anvils.
If you want to play a character who is as hard as nails,
a stubborn and unrelenting adventurer, with a mix of
rugged toughness and deep wisdom—or at least dogged
conviction—you should play a dwarf.
You Might...
•	 Strive to uphold your personal honor, no matter
the situation.
•	 Appreciate quality craftsmanship in all forms and
insist upon it for all your gear.
•	 Don’t waver or back down once you’ve set your
mind to something.
Others Probably...
•	 See you as stubborn, though whether they see
this as an asset or a detriment changes from one
person to the next.
•	 Assume you are an expert in matters related to
stonework, mining, precious metals, and gems.
•	 Recognize the deep connection you have with your
family, heritage, and friends.
Physical Description
Dwarves are short and stocky, standing about a foot
shorter than most humans. They have wide, compact
bodies and burly frames. Dwarves of all genders pride
themselves on the length of their hair, which they often
braid into intricate patterns, some of which represent
specific clans. A long beard is a sign of masculinity and
honor among the dwarves, and thus a clean-shaven male
dwarf is considered weak, untrustworthy, or worse.
Dwarves typically reach physical adulthood around the
age of 25, though their traditionalist culture places more
value on completing coming of age ceremonies unique to
each clan than reaching a certain age. A typical dwarf can
live to around 350 years old.
Society
The ancient surface empire the dwarves once ruled fell
long ago, overwhelmed by orc and goblinoid enemies.
Today’s dwarves today retain many of the qualities that
propelled their people to greatness in ancient times:
fierceness, gumption, and stubbornness in endeavors
ranging from battle and craftsmanship to forging ties
with family and friends.
Dwarves are slow to trust those outside their kin, but
this wariness is not without reason. Dwarves have a long
history of forced exile from ancestral holds and struggles
against the depredations of savage foes, especially giants,
goblinoids, orcs, and the horrors that dwell deep below
the surface. While trust from a dwarf is hard-won, once
gained it is as strong as iron.
Core Rulebook
34
