Specialty Basic Actions
These actions are useful under specific circumstances. Some
require you to have a special movement type (page 463).
ARREST A FALL [reaction]
Trigger You fall.
Requirements You have a fly Speed.
You attempt an Acrobatics check to slow your fall. The DC is
typically 15, but it might be higher due to air turbulence or
other circumstances.
Success You fall gently, taking no damage from the fall.
AVERT GAZE [one-action]
You avert your gaze from danger. You gain a +2 circumstance
bonus to saves against visual abilities that require you to look
at a creature or object, such as a medusa’s petrifying gaze. Your
gaze remains averted until the start of your next turn.
BURROW [one-action]
MOVE
Requirements You have a burrow Speed.
You dig your way through dirt, sand, or a similar loose material
at a rate up to your burrow Speed. You can’t burrow through
rock or other substances denser than dirt unless you have an
ability that allows you to do so.
FLY [one-action]
MOVE
Requirements You have a fly Speed.
You move through the air up to your fly Speed. Moving
upward (straight up or diagonally) uses the rules for moving
through difficult terrain. You can move straight down 10 feet
for every 5 feet of movement you spend. If you Fly to the
ground, you don’t take falling damage. You can use an action
to Fly 0 feet to hover in place. If you’re airborne at the end of
your turn and didn’t use a Fly action this round, you fall.
GRAB AN EDGE [reaction]
MANIPULATE
Trigger You fall from or past an edge or handhold.
Requirements Your hands are not tied behind your back or
otherwise restrained.
When you fall off or past an edge or other handhold, you can
try to grab it, potentially stopping your fall. You must succeed
at a Reflex save, usually at the Climb DC. If you grab the edge
or handhold, you can then Climb up using Athletics.
Critical Success You grab the edge or handhold, whether or
not you have a hand free, typically by using a suitable held
item to catch yourself (catching a battle axe on a ledge, for
example). You still take damage from the distance fallen so
far, but you treat the fall as though it were 30 feet shorter.
Success If you have at least one hand free, you grab the edge
or handhold, stopping your fall. You still take damage from
the distance fallen so far, but you treat the fall as though
it were 20 feet shorter. If you have no hands free, you
continue to fall as if you had failed the check.
Critical Failure You continue to fall, and if you’ve fallen 20 feet
or more before you use this reaction, you take 10 bludgeoning
damage from the impact for every 20 feet fallen.
MOUNT [one-action]
MOVE
Requirements You are adjacent to a creature that is at least
one size larger than you and is willing to be your mount.
You move onto the creature and ride it. If you’re already
mounted, you can instead use this action to dismount, moving
off the mount into a space adjacent to it.
POINT OUT [one-action]
AUDITORY
 MANIPULATE
 VISUAL
Requirements A creature is undetected by one or more of your
allies but isn’t undetected by you.
You indicate a creature that you can see to one or more allies,
gesturing in a direction and describing the distance verbally.
That creature is hidden to your allies, rather than undetected
(page 466). This works only for allies who can see you and are
in a position where they could potentially detect the target. If
your allies can’t hear or understand you, they must succeed at
a Perception check against the creature’s Stealth DC or they
misunderstand and believe the target is in a different location.
RAISE A SHIELD [one-action]
Requirements You are wielding a shield.
You position your shield to protect yourself. When you have
Raised a Shield, you gain its listed circumstance bonus to AC.
Your shield remains raised until the start of your next turn.
Activities in Encounters
Activities that take longer than a turn can’t normally be
performed during an encounter. Spells with a casting time
of 1 minute or more are a common example of this, as are
several skill actions. When you commit to an activity during
your turn in an encounter, you commit to spending all of the
actions it requires. If the activity gets interrupted partway
through, you lose all of the actions you would have spent
on that activity. Activities are described in full on page 461.
Reactions in Encounters
Your reactions let you respond immediately to what’s
happening around you. The GM determines whether you
can use reactions before your first turn begins, depending
on the situation in which the encounter happens.
Once your first turn begins, you gain your actions and
reaction. You can use 1 reaction per round. You can use a
reaction on anyone’s turn (including your own), but only
when its trigger occurs. If you don’t use your reaction, you
lose it at the start of your next turn, though you typically
then gain a reaction at the start of that turn.
Some reactions are specifically meant to be used in
combat and can change how the battle plays out drastically.
Core Rulebook
472
