Ranges, Areas, and Targets
Spells with a range can affect targets, create areas, or
make things appear only within that range. Most spell
ranges are measured in feet, though some can stretch over
miles, reach anywhere on the planet, or go even farther!
Touch Range
A spell with a range of touch requires you to physically
touch the target. You use your unarmed reach to
determine whether you can touch the creature. You can
usually touch the target automatically, though the spell
might specify that the target can attempt a saving throw
or that you must attempt a spell attack roll. If an ability
increases the range of a touch spell, start at 0 feet and
increase from there.
Areas
Sometimes a spell has an area, which can be a burst,
cone, emanation, or line. The method of measuring these
areas can be found on page 456. If the spell originates
from your position, the spell has only an area; if you can
cause the spell’s area to appear farther away from you,
the spell has both a range and an area.
Targets
Some spells allow you to directly target a creature, an
object, or something that fits a more specific category. The
target must be within the spell’s range, and you must be
able to see it (or otherwise perceive it with a precise sense)
to target it normally. At the GM’s discretion, you can
attempt to target a creature you can’t see, as described
in Detecting Creatures on pages 465–467. If you fail to
target a particular creature, this doesn’t change how the
spell affects any other targets the spell might have.
If you choose a target that isn’t valid, such as if you
thought a vampire was a living creature and targeted it
with a spell that can target only living creatures, your
spell fails to target that creature. If a creature starts out
as a valid target but ceases to be one during a spell’s
duration, the spell typically ends, but the GM might
decide otherwise in certain situations.
Spells that affect multiple creatures in an area can have
both an Area entry and a Targets entry. A spell that has
an area but no targets listed usually affects all creatures
in the area indiscriminately.
Some spells restrict you to willing targets. A player
can declare their character a willing or unwilling target
at any time, regardless of turn order or their character’s
condition (such as when a character is paralyzed,
unconscious, or even dead).
Line of Effect
You usually need an unobstructed path to the target of a
spell, the origin point of an area, or the place where you
create something with a spell. More information on line
of effect can be found on page 457.
Durations
The duration of a spell is how long the spell effect lasts.
Spells that last for more than an instant have a Duration
entry. A spell might last until the start or end of a turn, for
some number of rounds, for minutes, or even longer. If a
spell’s duration is given in rounds, the number of rounds
remaining decreases by 1 at the start of each of the
spellcaster’s turns, ending when the duration reaches 0.
Some spells have effects that remain even after the
spell’s magic is gone. Any ongoing effect that isn’t part
of the spell’s duration entry isn’t considered magical.
For instance, a spell that creates a loud sound and has
no duration might deafen someone for a time, even
permanently. This deafness couldn’t be counteracted
because it is not itself magical (though it might be cured
by other magic, such as restore senses).
If a spell’s caster dies or is incapacitated during the spell’s
duration, the spell remains in effect till its duration ends.
You might need to keep track of the caster’s initiative after
they stopped being able to act to monitor spell durations.
Sustaining Spells
If the spell’s duration is “sustained,” it lasts until the end
of your next turn unless you use a Sustain a Spell action
on that turn to extend the duration of that spell.
SUSTAIN A SPELL [one-action]
CONCENTRATE
Requirements You have at least one spell active with a
sustained duration, and you are not fatigued.
Choose one spell with a sustained duration you have in effect.
The duration of that spell continues until the end of your next
turn. Some spells might have slightly different or expanded
effects if you sustain them. Sustaining a Spell for more than 10
minutes (100 rounds) ends the spell and makes you fatigued
unless the spell lists a different maximum duration (such as
“sustained up to 1 minute” or “sustained up to 1 hour”).
If your Sustain a Spell action is disrupted, the spell
immediately ends.
METAMAGIC
Many spellcasters can gain access to metamagic
actions, typically by selecting metamagic feats. Actions
with the metamagic trait tweak the properties of your
spells, changing their range, damage, or any number
of other properties. You must use a metamagic action
directly before the spell you want to alter. If you use any
action (including free actions, reactions, and additional
metamagic actions) other than Cast a Spell directly after,
you waste the benefits of the metamagic action. Any
additional effects added by a metamagic action are part
of the spell’s effect, not of the metamagic action itself.
Core Rulebook
304
