crystal tools used by otherworldly entities to construct the
universe in primeval times.
When you invest one of these precisely shaped crystals, the
stone orbits your head instead of being worn on your body.
You can stow an aeon stone with an Interact action, and an
orbiting stone can be snatched out of the air with a successful
Disarm action against you. A stowed or removed stone remains
invested, but its effects are suppressed until you return it to
orbit your head again.
There are various types of aeon stones, each with
a different shape, color, and magical effect. Each
aeon stone also gains a resonant power when
slotted into a special magical item called a
wayfinder (page 617).
Type clear spindle; Level 7; Price 325 gp
You don’t need to eat or drink while this aeon
stone is invested by you. This aeon stone doesn’t
function until it has been worn continuously for a
week and invested each day therein. If it’s invested by
someone else, this interval starts over.
The resonant power allows you to cast air bubble as a
primal innate spell once per day.
Type dull gray; Level 1; Price 9 gp
A dull gray aeon stone has lost its special magical properties,
sometimes as a result of overusing a tourmaline sphere or
pale lavender ellipsoid aeon stone. It still orbits your head
like any other aeon stone and can thus serve as a stylish,
hands-free option for various spells that target an object, like
continual flame.
Dull gray aeon stones have no resonant power.
Type gold nodule; Level 6; Price 230 gp
When a gold nodule aeon stone is created, its creator chooses
a language they know to store within the crystal. When you
invest the stone, you gain the ability to understand, speak,
and write that language.
The resonant power allows you to cast comprehend
language as an occult innate spell once per day.
Type
lavender
and
green
ellipsoid; Level 19; Price
30,000 gp
This functions as a pale lavender
ellipsoid aeon stone, but it casts an 8th-
level dispel magic spell with a counteract
modifier of +31.
The resonant power allows you to cast detect magic
and read aura as arcane innate spells at will.
Type orange prism; Level 16; Price 9,750 gp
An orange prism aeon stone must be activated to provide a
benefit. The resonant power grants you a +2 item bonus to
Arcana, Nature, Occultism, or Religion checks—whichever
corresponds to the tradition of the last spell you enhanced
with this aeon stone.
Activate [one-action] envision; Effect If your next action is to Cast a
Spell, that spell’s level is 1 higher (maximum 10th level) for the
purposes of counteracting and being counteracted.
Type pale lavender ellipsoid; Level 13; Price 2,200 gp
This aeon stone must be activated to provide a benefit. The
resonant power allows you to cast the read aura cantrip as an
arcane innate spell.
Activate [reaction] envision; Frequency once per day; Trigger A
spell targets you; Effect The stone casts a 6th-level dispel
magic spell in an attempt to counteract the triggering spell,
with a counteract modifier of +22. This can be used only on
spells that specifically target you—not area spells that don’t
have targets. If it succeeds, it counteracts the spell for all
targets if other creatures were targeted in addition to you.
Each time you activate this aeon stone, attempt
a DC 5 flat check. On a failure, the stone
permanently turns into a dull gray aeon stone.
Type pink rhomboid; Level 12; Price 1,900 gp
When you invest this stone, you gain 15
temporary Hit Points. If the stone’s effects are
suppressed, you lose any of the temporary Hit
Points remaining until it returns. The temporary
Hit Points refresh during your daily preparations;
they do not refresh if you re-invest the stone, or
invest another pink rhomboid aeon stone, before then.
The resonant power allows you to cast the stabilize cantrip
as a divine innate spell.
Type tourmaline sphere; Level 7; Price 350 gp
When you would die from the dying condition (typically at
dying 4), this aeon stone automatically activates and reduces
your dying value to 1 less than would normally kill you
(typically to dying 3). The stone then permanently turns into
a dull gray aeon stone. You can benefit from this ability only
once per day, even if you have multiple such stones.
The resonant power allows you to cast 1st-level heal as a
divine innate spell once per day.
ALCHEMIST GOGGLES
ITEM 4+
INVESTED
 MAGICAL
 TRANSMUTATION
Usage worn eyepiece; Bulk —
These brass goggles are engraved with flame
patterns and have thick, heavy lenses. While
worn, they give you a +1 item bonus to
Crafting checks to Craft alchemical items
and a +1 item bonus to attack rolls with
alchemical bombs. You can also ignore
lesser cover when making Strikes with
alchemical bombs.
Type alchemist goggles; Level 4; Price 100 gp
Type greater alchemist goggles; Level 11; Price 1,400 gp
The item bonuses are both +2.
Type major alchemist goggles; Level 17; Price 15,000 gp
The item bonuses are both +3.
ARMBANDS OF ATHLETICISM
ITEM 9+
INVESTED
 MAGICAL
 TRANSMUTATION
Usage worn armbands; Bulk L
Skilled awl work has imprinted images of a muscled weightlifter
into these tiered leather bands, which grant you enhanced
stamina and skill when performing athletic exercises. While
605
11
Crafting & Treasure
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Skills
Feats
Equipment
Spells
The Age of
Lost OMENS
Playing the
Game
Game
mastering
Crafting
& Treasure
Appendix
