PLANT FORM
SPELL 5
PLANT
POLYMORPH
TRANSMUTATION
Traditions primal
Cast [two‑actions] somatic, verbal
Duration 1 minute
Taking inspiration from verdant creatures, you transform into
a Large plant battle form. You must have space to expand into
or the spell is lost. When you cast this spell, choose arboreal,
flytrap, or shambler. You can substitute a similar specific plant
to turn into (such as a pitcher plant instead of a flytrap), but
this has no effect on the form’s Size or statistics. While in this
form, you gain the plant trait. You can Dismiss the spell.
You gain the following statistics and abilities regardless of
which battle form you choose:
•	 AC = 19 + your level. Ignore your armor’s check penalty
and Speed reduction.
•	 12 temporary Hit Points.
•	 Resistance 10 to poison.
•	 Low-light vision.
•	 One or more unarmed melee attacks specific to the
battle form you choose, which are the only attacks
you can use. You’re trained with them. Your attack
modifier is +17, and your damage bonus is +11. These
attacks are Strength based (for the purpose of the
enfeebled condition, for example). If your unarmed
attack modifier is higher, you can use it instead.
•	 Athletics modifier of +19, unless your own modifier
is higher.
You also gain specific abilities based on the type of plant
you choose:
•	 Arboreal Speed 30 feet; Melee [one‑action] branch (reach 15
feet), Damage 2d10 bludgeoning; Melee [one‑action] foot,
Damage 2d8 bludgeoning; you can speak in this
form, but you still can’t Cast a Spell or supply verbal
components.
•	 Flytrap Speed 15 feet; resistance 10 to acid; Melee [one‑action]
leaf (reach 10 feet), Damage 2d8 piercing, and you can
spend an action after a hit to Grab the target.
•	 Shambler Speed 20 feet, swim Speed 20 feet;
resistance 10 to electricity; Melee [one‑action] vine (reach 15
feet), Damage 2d8 slashing.
Heightened (6th) Your battle form is Huge, and the reach
of your attacks increases by 5 feet. You instead gain
AC = 22 + your level, 24 temporary HP, attack modifier +21,
damage bonus +16, and Athletics +22.
POLAR RAY
SPELL 8
COLD
EVOCATION
Traditions arcane, primal
Cast [two‑actions] somatic, verbal
Range 120 feet; Targets 1 creature or object
You fire a blue-white ray of freezing air and swirling sleet from
your finger that can chill your target to the bones. You must
succeed at a spell attack roll to affect the target, which then
takes 10d8 cold damage and is drained 2.
Heightened (+1) The damage increases by 2d8.
POSSESSION
SPELL 7
UNCOMMON
INCAPACITATION
MENTAL
NECROMANCY
POSSESSION
Traditions occult
Cast [two‑actions] somatic, verbal
Range 30 feet; Targets 1 living creature
Saving Throw Will; Duration 1 minute
You send your mind and soul into the target’s body, attempting
to take control. The target must attempt a Will save. You can
choose to use the effects of a degree of success more favorable
to the target if you prefer.
While you’re possessing a target, your own body is
unconscious and can’t wake up normally. You can sense
everything the possessed target does. You can Dismiss this
spell. If the possessed body dies, the spell ends and you
must succeed at a Fortitude save against your spell DC or
be paralyzed for 1 hour, or 24 hours on a critical failure. If
the spell ends during an encounter, you act just before the
possessed creature’s initiative count.
Critical Success The target is unaffected.
Success You possess the target but can’t control it. You ride
along in the body while the spell lasts.
Failure You possess the target and take partial control of it.
You no longer have a separate turn; instead, you might
control the target. At the start of each of the target’s turns,
it attempts another Will save. If it fails, it’s controlled by you
on that turn; if it succeeds, it chooses its own actions; and
if it critically succeeds, it forces you out and the spell ends.
Critical Failure You possess the target fully, and it can only
watch as you manipulate it like a puppet. The target is
controlled by you.
Heightened (9th) The duration is 10 minutes, and you can
physically enter the creature’s body, protecting your physical
body while the spell lasts.
POWER WORD BLIND
SPELL 7
UNCOMMON
AUDITORY
ENCHANTMENT
MENTAL
Traditions arcane
Cast [one‑action] verbal
Range 30 feet; Targets 1 creature
Duration varies
You utter an arcane word of power that can make the target
blinded upon hearing it. Once targeted, the target is then
temporarily immune for 10 minutes. The effect of the spell
depends on the target’s level.
11th or Lower The target is blinded permanently.
12th–13th The target is blinded for 1d4 minutes.
14th or Higher The target is dazzled for 1 minute.
Heightened (+1) The levels at which each outcome applies
increase by 2.
POWER WORD KILL
SPELL 9
UNCOMMON
AUDITORY
DEATH
ENCHANTMENT
MENTAL
Traditions arcane
Cast [one‑action] verbal
Range 30 feet; Targets 1 creature
Duration varies
Core Rulebook
358
