the baseline. For instance, a character Earning Income
with Sailing Lore for 4 months might work at a port
doing 1st-level tasks most of the time, but have 1 week
of 3rd-level tasks to account for busy periods. You’ll
normally have the player roll once for the time they spent
at 1st-level tasks and once for the week of 3rd-level tasks.
COST OF LIVING
For short periods of downtime, characters are usually just
passing through a settlement or spending a bit of time
there. They can use the prices for inn stays and meals
found on page 294. For long stretches of downtime, use
the values on Table 6–16: Cost of Living on the same
page. Deduct these costs from a character’s funds after
they gain any money from their other downtime activities.
A character can live off the land instead, but each day
they do, they typically use the Subsist activity (page 240) to
the exclusion of any other downtime activity.
BUYING AND SELLING
After an adventure yields a windfall, the characters might
have a number of items they want to sell. Likewise, when
they’re flush with currency, they might want to stock up
on gear. It usually takes 1 day of downtime to sell off a
few goods or shop around to buy a couple items. It can
take longer to sell off a large number of goods, expensive
items, or items that aren’t in high demand.
This assumes the characters are at a settlement of
decent size during their downtime. In some cases, they
might spend time traveling for days to reach bigger cities.
As always, you have final say over what sort of shops and
items are available.
An item can usually be purchased at its full Price and
sold for half its Price. Supply and demand adjusts these
numbers, but only occasionally.
LONG-TERM REST
Each full 24-hour period a character spends resting
during downtime allows them to recover double what
they would for an 8-hour rest (as listed on page 499).
They must spend this time resting in a comfortable and
secure location, typically in bed.
If they spend significantly longer in bed rest—usually
from a few days to a week of downtime—they recover
from all damage and most nonpermanent conditions.
Characters affected by diseases, long-lasting poisons,
or similar afflictions might need to continue attempting
saves during downtime. Some curses, permanent injuries,
and other situations that require magic or special care
to remove don’t end automatically during long-term rest.
RETRAINING
The retraining rules on page 481 allow a player to change
some character choices, but they rely on you to decide
whether the retraining requires a teacher, how long it
takes, if it has any associated costs, and if the ability can
be retrained at all. It’s reasonable for a character to retrain
most choices, and you should allow them. Only choices that
are truly intrinsic to the character, like a sorcerer’s bloodline,
should be off limits without extraordinary circumstances.
Try to make retraining into a story. Use NPCs the
character already knows as teachers, have a character
undertake intense research in a mysterious old library, or
ground the retraining in the game’s narrative by making
it the consequence of something that happened to the
character in a previous session.
Time
Retraining a feat or skill increase typically takes a
week. Class features that require a choice can also be
retrained but take longer: at least a month, and possibly
more. Retraining might take even longer if it would be
especially physically demanding or require travel, lengthy
experimentation, or in-depth research, but usually you
won’t want to require more than a month for a feat or
skill, or 4 months for a class feature.
A character might need to retrain several options at
once. For instance, retraining a skill increase might
mean they have skill feats they can no longer use, and
so they’ll need to retrain those as well. You can add all
this retraining time together, then reduce the total a bit to
represent the cohesive nature of the retraining.
Instruction and Costs
The rules abstract the process of learning new things as
you level up—you’re learning on the job—but retraining
suggests that the character works with a teacher or
undergoes specific practice to retrain. If you want, you
can entirely ignore this aspect of retraining, but it does
give an opportunity to introduce (or reintroduce) NPCs
and further the game’s story. You can even have one
player character mentor another, particularly when it
comes to retraining skills.
Any costs to retraining should be pretty minor—about
as much as a PC could gain by Earning Income over
the same period of time. The costs are mostly there to
make the training feel appropriate within the context
of the story, not to consume significant amounts of the
character’s earnings. A teacher might volunteer to work
without pay as a reward for something the character has
already done, or simply ask for a favor in return.
Disallowed Options
While some character options can’t normally be retrained,
you can invent ways for a character to retrain even these—
special rituals, incredible quests, or the perfect tutor. For
example, ability scores can’t normally be retrained, as that
can unbalance the game. But not all players necessarily
want to exploit the system—maybe a player simply
wants to swap an ability boost between two low stats. In
situations like this, you could let them spend a few months
working out or studying to reassign an ability boost.
Core Rulebook
502
