forward with a negative consequence rather than
the failure halting progress entirely.
SPECIAL CIRCUMSTANCES
The player characters in your group will at times attempt
tasks that should be easier or harder than the rules or
adventure would otherwise lead you to expect, such
as a PC Gathering Information in their hometown. In
these cases, you can just apply a circumstance bonus or
penalty. Usually, this is +1 or –1 for a minor but significant
circumstance, but you can adjust this bonus or penalty to
+2 or –2 for a major circumstance. The maximum bonus
or penalty, +4 or –4, should apply only if someone has an
overwhelming advantage or is trying something extremely
unlikely but not quite impossible.
You can also add traits to actions. Let’s say that during a
fight, Seelah dips her sword into a brazier of hot coals before
swinging it at an enemy with a weakness to fire. You could
add the fire trait to this attack. A PC getting an advantage
in this way should usually have to use an action to do so,
so Seelah would get the benefit for one attack, but to do it
again she’d need to bury her sword in the coals once more.
INCORPORATING ADDITIONAL OPTIONS
You might grant players access to additional rule or
character options. If you feel confident that allowing a
character to take a particular option will be a good addition
to your game, then go for it! If you’re uncertain or worried
about a request, you don’t have to allow it, and it’s your call
to make. However, try to meet players halfway or suggest
alternatives. If you want to allow an option on a trial basis
but are worried it might become a problem later, talk to
the player beforehand and explain that you are tentatively
allowing the option, but might change your mind later,
after you see how the option can be used during play.
Pathfinder Society
Organized play campaigns allow you to play in and run
games all over the world with persistent characters. If you
want to play Pathfinder this way, you can do so through
the Pathfinder Society Roleplaying Guild! Once you go
online to PathfinderSociety.club to make an account, you
can organize games yourself with your friends or join an
existing event.
Pathfinder Society primarily uses 4- to 5-hour adventures
called scenarios. At the start of a session when you’re
running a scenario, you’ll collect your players’ information.
At the end of the adventure, you’ll record the rewards their
characters earn for completing the scenario, all of which
are detailed in the adventure. Once you report the session’s
results online, the rewards become a persistent part of
these characters, even if they play in other games with
other groups. These scenarios include important choices,
and you can report what your group chose—decisions that
will guide the future of the campaign!
PAIZO’S PUBLISHED ADVENTURES
You can purchase the following types of adventures at
paizo.com, your local game store, or many book stores. If
you want to acquire all the adventures in a given line, you
can purchase a subscription at paizo.com.
Pathfinder Adventure Paths
Each monthly volume of a Pathfinder Adventure Path
leads into the next as part of a greater story spanning
multiple volumes. The first volume of each Adventure
Path typically starts at 1st level, and each volume has a
self-contained story that eventually leads to a big climax
at the end of the final volume. Each volume also typically
includes new monsters, rules, and details about the world.
Each Adventure Path has a different theme, and their
settings range across the Inner Sea region and beyond.
Pathfinder Adventures
Pathfinder Adventures are standalone adventures that
cover several levels of play. They’re self-contained and
typically have a unique structure or theme. You can play
through a Pathfinder Adventure on its own or as part of
your ongoing campaign—some make ideal side adventures
for Adventure Paths that have similar themes.
Pathfinder Society Scenarios
Scenarios are the adventures used by the Pathfinder
Society Roleplaying Guild; you can play them as part of
the Pathfinder Society or on your own. Each takes about
4 to 5 hours to run, so you can tell a whole story in a
short amount of time, but they’re also part of a larger
continuity and can be combined together to form the
basis of a longer campaign.
SHARING RESPONSIBILITY
Just because you’re the GM and ostensibly in charge
doesn’t mean you have to do all the extra work to make
the campaign run. Some of the tasks described here, like
scheduling games, taking notes, and giving recaps, can be
delegated to other players. You might also have someone
track initiative or the Hit Points of the PCs’ foes for you
in encounters, or even run those foes if you have a large
group and someone would rather do that than control
a character of their own. It’s also great when someone
else can host a session, provide snacks for the group, or
take on other responsibilities that aren’t directly related
to the game.
It’s best to figure out a schedule of responsibilities
when you’re first setting up a game. Ask the players
what they’re willing to take on. If you start to feel
overwhelmed partway through a campaign, you can
revisit the topic and try out new options until you find a
setup that’s comfortable.
Core Rulebook
492
