the weapon’s normal damage but has a +0 Strength modifier.
The weapon’s abilities that automatically trigger on a hit or
critical hit still function, but the weapon can’t be activated or
benefit from any of your abilities while dancing.
Each round, when the weapon is finished using its actions,
attempt a DC 6 flat check. On a failure, the activation ends and
the weapon falls to the ground. You can’t activate the item
again for 10 minutes.
DISRUPTING
RUNE 5+
MAGICAL
 NECROMANCY
Usage etched onto a melee weapon
A disrupting weapon pulses with positive energy, dealing an
extra 1d6 positive damage to undead. On a critical hit, the
undead is also enfeebled 1 until the end of your next turn.
Type disrupting; Level 5; Price 150 gp
Type greater disrupting; Level 14 (uncommon), Price 4,300 gp
Increase the extra damage to 2d6. On a critical hit, instead
of being enfeebled 1, the undead creature must attempt a
DC 34 Fortitude save with the following effects. This is an
incapacitation effect.
Critical Success It’s enfeebled 1 until the end of your next turn.
Success It’s enfeebled 2 until the end of your next turn.
Failure It’s enfeebled 3 until the end of your next turn.
Critical Failure It’s destroyed.
FLAMING
RUNE 8+
CONJURATION
 FIRE
 MAGICAL
Usage etched onto a weapon
This weapon is empowered by flickering flame. The weapon
deals an additional 1d6 fire damage on a successful Strike,
plus 1d10 persistent fire damage on a critical hit.
Type flaming; Level 8; Price 500 gp
Type greater flaming; Level 15; Price 6,500 gp
Increase the persistent damage on a critical hit to 2d10. Fire
damage dealt by this weapon (including the persistent fire
damage) ignores the target’s fire resistance.
FROST
RUNE 8+
COLD
 CONJURATION
 MAGICAL
Usage etched onto a weapon
This weapon is empowered with freezing ice. It deals an
additional 1d6 cold damage on a successful Strike. On a critical
hit, the target is also slowed 1 until the end of your next turn
unless it succeeds at a DC 24 Fortitude save.
Type frost; Level 8; Price 500 gp
Type greater frost; Level 15; Price 6,500 gp
The save DC is 34. Cold damage dealt by this weapon ignores
the target’s cold resistance.
GHOST TOUCH
RUNE 4
MAGICAL
 TRANSMUTATION
Price 75 gp
Usage etched onto a melee weapon
The weapon can harm creatures without physical form. A
ghost touch weapon is particularly effective against incorporeal
creatures, which almost always have a specific weakness to
ghost touch weapons. Incorporeal creatures can touch, hold,
and wield ghost touch weapons (unlike most physical objects).
GRIEVOUS
RUNE 9
ENCHANTMENT
 MAGICAL
Price 700 gp
Usage etched onto a weapon
When your attack roll with this weapon is a critical hit and
gains the critical specialization effect, you gain an additional
benefit depending on the weapon group.
Axe You can damage a third creature, with the same restrictions.
Bow The Athletics check to pull the missile free is DC 20.
Brawling The target takes a –4 circumstance penalty to its save.
Club You can knock the target up to 15 feet away.
Dart The base persistent bleed damage increases to 2d6.
Flail You move the target 5 feet. You can’t move it away from
you, but you can move it in another direction of your choice.
Hammer You can also knock the target 5 feet away from you.
Knife The target takes a –5-foot status penalty to its Speed
while it has the persistent bleed damage.
Pick The extra damage from the critical specialization effect
increases to 4 per weapon damage die.
Polearm You can move the target up to 10 feet.
Shield You can knock the target up to 10 feet away.
Sling The target also takes a –10-foot status penalty to its Speed
for 1 round if it fails the save.
Spear The enfeebled condition lasts for 2 rounds.
Sword The target is flat-footed until the end of your next turn.
HOLY
RUNE 11
EVOCATION
 GOOD
 MAGICAL
Price 1,400 gp
Usage etched onto a weapon without an unholy rune
Holy weapons command powerful celestial energy. A weapon
with this rune deals an extra 1d6 good damage against evil
targets. If you are evil, you are enfeebled 2 while carrying or
wielding this weapon.
Activate [reaction] command; Frequency once per day; Trigger
You critically succeed at an attack roll against an evil creature
with the weapon; Effect You regain HP equal to double the evil
creature’s level. This is a good, positive, healing effect.
Craft Requirements You are good.
KEEN
RUNE 13
UNCOMMON
 MAGICAL
 TRANSMUTATION
Price 3,000 gp
Usage etched onto a piercing or slashing melee weapon
The edges of a keen weapon are preternaturally sharp. Attacks
with this weapon are a critical hit on a 19 on the die as long as
that result is a success. This property has no effect on a 19 if
the result would be a failure.
RETURNING
RUNE 3
EVOCATION
 MAGICAL
Price 55 gp
Core Rulebook
584
