especially compelling when the adventurers get the item
by defeating or outsmarting an enemy who carries an
item that fits their backstory or theme.
Uncommon and rare formulas make great treasure for a
character who Crafts items. Note that if an uncommon or
rare formula is broadly disseminated, it eventually becomes
more common. This can take months or years, but the item
might start showing up in shops all around the world.
Different Item Levels
The levels listed for items on Table 10–9: Party Treasure by
Level aren’t set in stone. You can provide items of slightly
higher or lower level as long as you take into account the
value of the items you hand out. For instance, suppose
you were considering giving a party of 11th-level PCs a
runestone with a fortification rune (with a Price of 2,000 gp)
as one of their 12th-level items, but you realize they’ve had
trouble finding armor in their recent adventures, so you
instead decide to give them a suit of 11th-level +2 resilient
armor (1,400 gp) instead. Since the armor has a lower
Price than the rune, you might also add a 9th-level shadow
rune (650 gp) to make up the difference. The total isn’t
exactly the same, but that’s all right.
However, if you wanted to place a 13th-level permanent
item in a treasure hoard, you could remove two 11th-
level permanent items to make a roughly equivalent
exchange. When you make an exchange upward like this,
be cautious: not only might you introduce an item with
effects that are disruptive at the party’s current level of
play, but you also might give an amazing item to one PC
while other characters don’t gain any new items at all!
If you’re playing in a long-term campaign, you can
spread out the treasure over time. A major milestone can
give extra treasure at one level, followed by a tougher
dungeon with fewer new items at the next level. Check
back occasionally to see whether each PC’s treasure is
comparable to the amount they’d get if they created a
new character at their current level, as described under
Treasure for New Characters below. They should be a bit
higher. but if there’s a significant discrepancy, adjust the
adventure’s upcoming treasure rewards accordingly.
Different Party Sizes
If a party has more than four characters, add the following
for each additional character:
•	 One permanent item of the party’s level or 1
level higher
•	 Two consumables, usually one of the party’s level
and one of 1 level higher
•	 Currency equal to the value in the Currency per
Additional PC column of Table 10–9
If the party has fewer than four characters, you can
subtract the same amount for each missing character,
but since the game is inherently more challenging with a
smaller group that can’t cover all roles as efficiently, you
might consider subtracting less treasure and allowing the
extra gear help compensate for the smaller group size.
TREASURE FOR NEW CHARACTERS
When your new campaign starts at a higher level, a
new player joins an existing group, or a current player’s
character dies and they need a new one, your campaign
will have one or more PCs who don’t start at 1st level. In
these cases, refer to Table 10–10: Character Wealth on the
next page, which shows how many common permanent
items of various levels the PC should have, in addition to
currency. A single item on this table is always a baseline
item. If the player wants armor or a weapon with property
runes, they must buy the property runes separately, and for
armor or a weapon made of a precious material, they must
pay for the precious material separately as well.
These values are for a PC just starting out at the given
level. If the PC is joining a party that has already made
progress toward the next level, consider giving the new
ADJUSTING TREASURE
The treasure you award to the party should be monitored
and adjusted as you play. You might need to give out
treasure you hadn’t originally planned for, especially
if the group bypasses part of an adventure. Keep an
eye on the party’s resources. If they’re running out of
consumables or money, or if they’re having trouble in
combat because their items aren’t up to the task, you can
make adjustments.
This is especially common in adventures that have little
downtime or that take place far from civilization. If the
group goes a long time without being able to purchase or
Craft useful items, the PCs will be flush with coins and
valuables but behind on useful equipment. In a situation
like this, you can either place more useful treasure in the
adventure or introduce NPCs who are willing to trade.
Megadungeons and Sandboxes
Some adventures have an expectation that the player
characters explore where they want and find only what
their skill, luck, and ingenuity afford. Two common
examples of this type of adventure are the sprawling
dungeon with multiple different sections and paths, often
called a megadungeon, and free-form exploration, often
called a sandbox and typically occurring in a wilderness.
If you want to build a free-form adventure like this
where characters are likely to miss at least some of the
treasure, increase the amount of treasure you place. Be
aware, however, that a meticulous group can end up with
more treasure than normal and will have advantages in
later adventures.
For a simple guideline to these situations, increase the
treasure as though there were one more PC in the party.
If the structure is especially loose, especially in sandbox
adventures, you can increase this amount even further.
Core Rulebook
510
