TELEPORT
SPELL 6
UNCOMMON
CONJURATION
TELEPORTATION
Traditions arcane, occult
Cast 10 minutes (material, somatic, verbal)
Range 100 miles; Targets you and up to 4 targets touched, either
willing creatures or objects roughly the size of a creature.
You and the targets are instantly transported to any location
within range, as long as you can identify the location precisely
both by its position relative to your starting position and
by its appearance (or other identifying features). Incorrect
knowledge of the location’s appearance usually causes the
spell to fail, but it could instead lead to teleporting to an
unwanted location or some other unusual mishap determined
by the GM. Teleport is not precise over great distances. The
targets appear at a distance from the intended destination
equal to roughly 1 percent of the total distance traveled, in a
direction determined by the GM. For short journeys, this lack
of precision is irrelevant, but for long distances this could be
up to 1 mile.
Heightened (7th) You and the other targets can travel to any
location within 1,000 miles.
Heightened (8th) You and the other targets can travel to any
location on the same planet. If you travel more than 1,000
miles, you arrive only 10 miles off target.
Heightened (9th) You and the other targets can travel to any
location on another planet within the same solar system.
Assuming you have accurate knowledge of the location’s
position and appearance, you arrive on the new planet 100
miles off target.
Heightened (10th) As the 9th-level version, but you and the
other targets can travel to any planet within the same galaxy.
TIME STOP
SPELL 10
TRANSMUTATION
Traditions arcane, occult
Cast [three-actions] material, somatic, verbal
You temporarily stop time for everything but yourself, allowing
you to use several actions in what appears to others to be no
time at all. Immediately after casting time stop, you can use up
to 9 actions in 3 sets of up to 3 actions each. After each set
of actions, 1 round passes, but only for you, effects specifically
targeting or affecting you, and effects you create during the
stoppage. All other creatures and objects are invulnerable to
your attacks, and you can’t target or affect them with anything.
Once you have finished your actions, time begins to flow again
for the rest of the world. If you created an effect with a duration
that extends beyond the time stop’s duration, such as wall of
fire, it immediately affects others again, but it doesn’t have any
of the effects that happen only when you first cast the spell.
TONGUES
SPELL 5
UNCOMMON
DIVINATION
Traditions arcane, divine, occult
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal
Range touch; Targets 1 creature
Duration 1 hour
The target can understand all words regardless of language and
also speak the languages of other creatures. When in a mixed
group of creatures, each time the target speaks, it can choose
a creature and speak in a language that creature understands,
even if the target doesn’t know what language that is.
Heightened (7th) The duration is 8 hours.
TOUCH OF IDIOCY
SPELL 2
ENCHANTMENT
MENTAL
Traditions arcane, occult
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal
Range touch; Targets 1 living creature
Saving Throw Will; Duration 1 minute
You dull the target’s mind; the target must attempt a Will save.
Success The target is unaffected.
Failure The target is stupefied 2.
Critical Failure The target is stupefied 4.
TREE SHAPE
SPELL 2
PLANT
POLYMORPH
TRANSMUTATION
Traditions primal
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal
Duration 8 hours
You transform into a Large tree. Perception checks don’t
reveal your true nature, but a successful Nature or Survival
check against your spell DC reveals that you appear to be a
tree that is strangely new to the area. While in tree form, you
can observe everything around you, but you can’t act other
than to end the spell, and your turn, by using a single action,
which has the concentrate trait. As a tree, your AC is 20, and
only status bonuses, status penalties, circumstance bonuses,
and circumstance penalties affect you. Any successes and
critical successes you roll on Reflex saves are failures.
TREE STRIDE
SPELL 5
UNCOMMON
CONJURATION
PLANT
TELEPORTATION
Traditions primal
Cast 1 minute (material, somatic, verbal)
You step into a living tree with a trunk big enough for you
to fit inside it and instantly teleport to any tree of the same
species within 5 miles that also has a sufficiently large trunk.
Once you enter the first tree, you instantly know the rough
locations of other sufficiently large trees of the same species
within range and can exit from the original tree, if you prefer.
You can’t carry extradimensional spaces with you; if you
attempt to do so, the spell fails.
Heightened (6th) The tree you exit can be up to 50 miles away.
Heightened (8th) The tree you exit can be up to 500 miles away.
Heightened (9th) The tree you exit can be anywhere on the
same planet.
TRUE SEEING
SPELL 6
DIVINATION
REVELATION
Traditions arcane, divine, occult, primal
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal
Duration 10 minutes
Core Rulebook
378
