Chapter 9: Playing the Game
At this point, you have a character and are ready to play Pathfinder! Or maybe you’re
the GM and you are getting ready to run your first adventure. Either way, this chapter
provides the full details for the rules outlined in Chapter 1: Introduction. This chapter
begins by describing the general rules and conventions of how the game is played and then
presents more in-depth explanations of the rules for each mode of play.
Before diving into how to play Pathfinder, it’s important to
understand the game’s three modes of play, which determine
the pace of your adventure and the specific rules you’ll use
at a given time. Each mode provides a different pace and
presents a different level of risk to your characters. The
Game Master (GM) determines which mode works best
for the story and controls the transition between them.
You’ll likely talk about the modes less formally during
your play session, simply transitioning between exploration
and encounters during the adventure, before heading to a
settlement to achieve something during downtime.
The most intricate of the modes is encounter mode. This
is where most of the intense action takes place, and it’s most
often used for combat or other high-stakes situations. The
GM typically switches to encounter mode by calling on
the players to “roll for initiative” to determine the order in
which all the actors take their turns during the encounter.
Time is then divided into a series of rounds, each lasting
roughly 6 seconds in the game world. Each round, player
characters, other creatures, and sometimes even hazards or
events take their turn in initiative order. At the start of a
participant’s turn, they gain the use of a number of actions
(typically 3 in the case of PCs and other creatures) as well as
a special action called a reaction. These actions, and what
you do with them, are how you affect the world within
an encounter. The full rules for playing in encounter mode
start on page 468.
In exploration mode, time is more flexible and the play
more free form. In this mode, minutes, hours, or even
days in the game world pass quickly in the real world, as
the characters travel cross country, explore uninhabited
sections of a dungeon, or roleplay during a social
gathering. Often, developments during exploration lead to
encounters, and the GM will switch to that mode of play
until the encounter ends, before returning to exploration
mode. The rules for exploration start on page 479.
The third mode is downtime. During downtime, the
characters are at little risk, and the passage of time is
measured in days or longer. This is when you might forge a
magic sword, research a new spell, or prepare for your next
adventure. The rules for downtime are on page 481.
General Rules
Before exploring the specific rules of each mode of play,
you’ll want to understand a number of general rules of
the game. To one degree or another, these rules are used
in every mode of play.
Making Choices
Pathfinder is a game where your choices determine the
story’s direction. Throughout the game, the GM describes
what’s happening in the world and then asks the players, “So
what do you do?” Exactly what you choose to do, and how
the GM responds to those choices, builds a unique story
experience. Every game is different, because you’ll rarely,
if ever, make the same decisions as another group of players.
This is true for the GM as well—two GMs running the exact
same adventure will put different emphasis and flourishes
on the way they present each scenario and encounter.
Often, your choices have no immediate risk or
consequences. If you’re traveling along a forest path and
come across a fork in the trail, the GM will ask, “Which
way do you go?” You might choose to take the right fork
or the left. You could also choose to leave the trail, or just
go back to town. Once your choice is made, the GM tells
you what happens next. Down the line, that choice may
impact what you encounter later in the game, but in many
cases nothing dangerous happens immediately.
But sometimes what happens as a result of your choices
is less than certain. In those cases, you’ll attempt a check.
Checks
When success isn’t certain—whether you’re swinging a
sword at a foul beast, attempting to leap across a chasm, or
straining to remember the name of the earl’s second cousin
at a soiree—you’ll attempt a check. Pathfinder has many
types of checks, from skill checks to attack rolls to saving
throws, but they all follow these basic steps.
1.	Roll a d20 and identify the modifiers, bonuses,
and penalties that apply.
2.	Calculate the result.
3.	Compare the result to the difficulty class (DC).
4.	Determine the degree of success and the effect.
Checks and difficulty classes (DC) both come in many
forms. When you swing your sword at that foul beast,
you’ll make an attack roll against its Armor Class, which
is the DC to hit another creature. If you are leaping across
that chasm, you’ll attempt an Athletics skill check with a
9
443
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Skills
Feats
Equipment
Spells
The Age of
Lost OMENS
Playing the
Game
Game
mastering
Crafting
& Treasure
Appendix
