You gain a +2 item bonus to attack rolls, the target takes a
–15-foot penalty, and the Escape DC is 28.
Type major; Level 17; Price 2,500 gp
You gain a +3 item bonus to attack rolls, the target takes a
–20-foot penalty, and the Escape DC is 37.
THUNDERSTONE
ITEM 1+
ALCHEMICAL
 BOMB
 CONSUMABLE
 SONIC  SPLASH
Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk L
Activate [one-action] Strike
When this stone hits a creature or a hard surface, it
explodes with a deafening bang. A thunderstone deals
the listed sonic damage and sonic splash damage, and
each creature within 10 feet of the space in which the
stone exploded must succeed at a Fortitude saving throw
with the listed DC or be deafened until the end of its
next turn. Many types of thunderstone grant an item
bonus to attack rolls.
Type lesser; Level 1; Price 3 gp
The bomb deals 1d4 sonic damage and 1 sonic
splash damage, and the DC is 17.
Type moderate; Level 3; Price 10 gp
You gain a +1 item bonus to attack rolls. The bomb deals
2d4 sonic damage and 2 sonic splash damage, and the DC is 20.
Type greater; Level 11; Price 250 gp
You gain a +2 item bonus to attack rolls. The bomb deals 3d4
sonic damage and 3 sonic splash damage, and the DC is 28.
Type major; Level 17; Price 2,500 gp
You gain a +3 item bonus to attack rolls. The bomb deals 4d4
sonic damage and 4 sonic splash damage, and the DC is 36.
Alchemical Elixirs
Elixirs are alchemical liquids that are used by drinking
them. They have the elixir trait. These potent concoctions
grant the drinker some alchemical benefits. While all
elixirs follow the same general rules, mutagens (described
below) have additional rules that apply to their use.
Activating Elixirs
You usually Interact to activate an elixir as you drink it
or feed it to another creature. You can feed an elixir only
to a creature within reach that is either willing or unable
to prevent you from doing so. You usually need only one
hand to consume an elixir or feed it to another creature.
Mutagens
These elixirs, indicated by the mutagen trait, temporarily
transmogrify the subject’s body and alter its mind. Typically,
only alchemists have the expertise to craft mutagens, and
some say they are the only ones reckless enough to use them.
A mutagen always conveys one or more beneficial
effects (listed in the Benefit entry) paired with one or
more detrimental effects (shown in the Drawback entry).
Mutagens are polymorph effects, meaning you can
benefit from only one at a time (see page 301 for more
information about the polymorph trait).
ANTIDOTE
ITEM 1+
ALCHEMICAL  CONSUMABLE
 ELIXIR
Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk L
Activate [one-action] Interact
An antidote protects you against toxins. Upon drinking an
antidote, you gain an item bonus to Fortitude saving throws
against poisons for 6 hours.
Type lesser; Level 1; Price 3 gp
You gain a +2 item bonus.
Type moderate; Level 6; Price 35 gp
You gain a +3 item bonus.
Type greater; Level 10; Price 160 gp
You gain a +4 item bonus.
Type major; Level 14; Price 675 gp
You gain a +4 item bonus, and when you drink the
antidote, you can immediately attempt a saving throw
against one poison of 14th level or lower affecting
you. If you succeed, the poison is neutralized.
ANTIPLAGUE
ITEM 1+
ALCHEMICAL
 CONSUMABLE
 ELIXIR
Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk L
Activation [one-action] Interact
Antiplague can fortify the body’s defenses against diseases.
Upon drinking an antiplague, you gain an item bonus to
Fortitude saving throws against diseases for 24 hours; this
applies to your daily save against a disease’s progression.
Type lesser; Level 1; Price 3 gp
You gain a +2 item bonus.
Type moderate; Level 6; Price 35 gp
You gain a +3 item bonus.
Type greater; Level 10; Price 160 gp
You gain a +4 item bonus.
Type major; Level 14; Price 675 gp
You gain a +4 item bonus, and when you drink the antiplague,
you can immediately attempt a saving throw against one
disease of 14th level or lower affecting you. If you succeed,
you are cured of the disease.
BESTIAL MUTAGEN
ITEM 1+
ALCHEMICAL
 CONSUMABLE
 ELIXIR
 MUTAGEN
 POLYMORPH
Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk L
Activate [one-action] Interact
Your features transform into something bestial and you take
on muscle mass, but your lumbering form is clumsy.
Benefit You gain an item bonus to Athletics checks and
unarmed attack rolls. You gain a claw unarmed attack with
the agile trait and a jaws unarmed attack.
Drawback You take a –1 penalty to AC and a –2 penalty to
Reflex saves.
Type lesser; Level 1; Price 4 gp
You gain a +1 item bonus, your claw deals 1d4 slashing damage,
your jaws deal 1d6 piercing damage, and the duration is 1 minute.
Type moderate; Level 3; Price 12 gp
You gain a +2 item bonus, your claw deals 1d6 slashing damage,
your jaws deal 1d8 piercing damage, and the duration is 10 minutes.
Core Rulebook
546
