Encounters take place in real time or slower, and they
involve direct engagement between players and enemies,
potential allies, or each other. Combat and direct social
interaction usually take place in encounter mode.
Exploration is the connective tissue of an adventure,
and it is used whenever characters are exploring a place
where there’s danger or uncertainty, such as an unfamiliar
city or a dungeon. In exploration mode, characters
aren’t in immediate peril, but they must still be on
their toes. Exploration and encounters are collectively
called adventuring.
When the party isn’t adventuring, the characters are in
downtime. This mode covers most of a normal person’s
life, such as mundane, day-to-day tasks and working
toward long-term goals.
Encounters
Encounter mode is the most structured mode of play,
and you’ll mostly be following the rules presented in
Chapter 9 to run this mode. Because you usually call for
initiative during exploration before transitioning into
an encounter, guidelines for initiative order appear on
page 498 in the discussion of exploration mode. Rules
for building combat encounters appear on page 488.
Stakes: Moderate to high. Encounters always have
significant stakes, and they are played in a step-by-step
time frame to reflect that.
Time Scale: Encounter mode is highly structured and
proceeds in combat rounds for combat encounters,
while other sorts of encounters can have rounds
of any length. In combat, 1 minute consists of 10
rounds, where each combat round is 6 seconds long,
but you might decide a verbal confrontation proceeds
in minute-long or longer rounds to give each speaker
enough time to make a solid point.
Actions and Reactions: In combat encounters, each
participant’s turn is broken into discrete actions, and
participants can use reactions when their triggers occur.
Reactions can occur in social situations, though their
triggers are usually more descriptive and less tactical.
CHOOSING ADVERSARIES’ ACTIONS
Players often coordinate and plan to be as efficient as
possible, but their adversaries might not. As the GM,
you’re roleplaying these foes, and you decide their tactics.
Most creatures have a basic grasp of simple tactics like
flanking or focusing on a single target. But you should
remember that they also react based on emotions and
make mistakes—perhaps even more than the player
characters do.
When selecting targets or choosing which abilities to
use, rely on the adversaries’ knowledge of the situation,
not your own. You might know that the cleric has a high
Will save modifier, but a monster might still try to use a
fear ability on her. That doesn’t mean you should play
adversaries as complete fools; they can learn from their
mistakes, make sound plans, and even research the player
characters in advance.
Adversaries usually don’t attack a character who’s
knocked out. Even if a creature knows a fallen character
might come back into the fight, only the most vicious
creatures focus on helpless foes rather than the more
immediate threats around them.
Running adversaries is a mix of being true to the
creature and doing what’s best for the drama of the
game. Think of your encounter like a fight scene in a
movie or novel. If the fighter taunts a fire giant to draw
its attention away from the fragile wizard, the tactically
sound decision is for the giant to keep pummeling the
wizard. But is that the best choice for the scene? Perhaps
everyone will have more fun if the giant redirects its ire to
the infuriating fighter.
BYPASSED ENCOUNTERS
What happens if you’ve planned a fight or challenge
and the PCs find a way to avoid it entirely? This could
leave them behind in XP or cause them to miss important
information or treasure.
In the case of XP, the guidelines are simple: If the
player characters avoided the challenge through smart
tactical play, a savvy diplomatic exchange, clever use of
magic, or another approach that required ingenuity and
planning, award them the normal XP for the encounter.
If they did something that took only moderate effort
or was a lucky break, like finding a secret passage and
using it to avoid a fight, award them XP for a minor or
moderate accomplishment. In an adventure that’s more
free-form, like a sprawling dungeon with multiple paths,
there might be no reward for bypassing an encounter,
because doing so was trivial.
You’ll have to think on your feet if information or items
get skipped when players bypass encounters. First, look
for another reasonable place in the adventure to place the
information or item. If it makes sense, move the original
encounter to another part of the adventure and give the
PCs a major advantage for bypassing the encounter in
the first place.
Running Modes of Play
Pathfinder sessions are divided into three different modes of play: encounters, exploration,
and downtime. Each mode represents different kinds of situations, with specific stakes
and time scales, and characters can use different sorts of actions and reactions in each.
GAME MASTERING
493
10
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Skills
Feats
Equipment
Spells
The Age of
Lost OMENS
Playing the
Game
Game
mastering
Crafting
& Treasure
Appendix
