Snares
Snares are small annoyances and simple traps you can
create using the Crafting skill if you have the Snare
Crafting feat (page 266). Creating a snare requires a
snare kit (page 291) and an amount of raw materials
worth the amount listed in the snare’s Price entry. Unlike
other items, found snares cannot be collected or sold in
their complete form. Snares have the snare trait.
Crafting Snares
A snare is built within a single 5-foot square. Once
constructed, it can’t be moved without destroying
(and often triggering) the snare.
You must have the Snare Crafting feat to create snares.
You can spend 1 minute to Craft a snare at its listed Price.
If you want to Craft a snare at a discount, you must
spend downtime as described in the Craft activity.
Some snares have additional requirements beyond
those stated in the Craft activity; these snares list
their requirements in a Craft Requirements entry.
Detecting Snares
Creatures can detect snares as they would any
trap or hazard (as described on page 520), using
the creator’s Crafting DC as the snare’s Stealth
DC. As you become better at creating snares,
your snares become harder to detect by those
with lesser ability. If you are an expert in
Crafting, only a creature that is trained in
Perception  can find  your snares; if you are
a master in Crafting, only a creature that is an
expert in  Perception can find your snares; and if you are
legendary in Crafting, only a creature that is a master in
Perception can find your snares.
If your proficiency rank is expert or better in Crafting,
only creatures actively searching can find your snares.
Triggering Snares
Unless stated otherwise in a snare’s description, when a
Small or larger creature enters a snare’s square, the snare’s
effect occurs and then the snare is destroyed.
Disabling Snares
Once a creature discovers a snare, it can disable it much like
it can other physical traps, using the Disable a Device action
of the Thievery skill and using the Crafting DC of the snare’s
creator as the DC. As you become better at creating snares,
your snares become harder to disable by those with lesser
ability. If you are an expert in Crafting, only a creature that
is trained in Thievery can disable them; if you are a master
in Crafting, only a creature that is an expert in Thievery can
disable them; and if you are legendary in Crafting, only a
creature that is a master in Thievery can disable them.
You can automatically disarm a snare that you
personally Crafted without triggering it by spending an
Interact action while adjacent to the snare.
ALARM SNARE
SNARE 1
AUDITORY
 CONSUMABLE
 MECHANICAL
 SNARE
 TRAP
Price 3 gp
You create an alarm snare by rigging one or more noisy
objects to a trip wire or pressure plate. When you create an
alarm snare, you designate a range between 100 to 500 feet
at which it can be heard. When a Small or larger creature
enters the square, the snare makes a noise loud enough that
it can be heard by all creatures in the range you designated.
BITING SNARE
SNARE 4
CONSUMABLE
 MECHANICAL
 SNARE
 TRAP
Price 15 gp
The snare’s jaws shut on the leg of a creature that steps on
it. The snare deals 5d6 piercing damage to the first creature
that enters its square; that creature must attempt a DC 18
Reflex save.
Critical Success The creature is unaffected.
Success The creature takes half damage.
Failure The creature takes full damage.
Critical Failure The creature takes double damage
and takes a –10-foot status penalty to its Speed until
it recovers at least 1 Hit Point.
BLEEDING SPINES SNARE
SNARE 12
CONSUMABLE
 MECHANICAL
 SNARE
 TRAP
Price 320 gp
When a creature enters the square, spines
covered in numerous jagged thorns protrude
out to stab it, dealing 8d8 piercing damage and 2d8
persistent bleed damage. The creature must attempt a DC 31
basic Reflex saving throw. After the initial trigger, the spines
retract and protrude again repeatedly for 1 minute, forcing any
creature that enters the space or ends its turn in the space to
attempt a Reflex save against the spines’ damage.
BOMB SNARE
SNARE 8
CONSUMABLE
 MECHANICAL
 SNARE
 TRAP
Price 75 gp
You create a snare that catalyzes three 3rd-level moderate
alchemical bombs of the same type to explode when a creature
enters the snare’s square. The target and all creatures in adjacent
squares must attempt a DC 26 Reflex save, as the snare deals
damage equal to three times the direct hit damage from one
of the component bombs (for example, 6d6 electricity damage
from bottled lightning) with no splash damage or other effects.
Critical Success The creature is unaffected.
Success The creature takes half damage and no other effects.
Failure The creature takes full damage. It also takes all other
effects of a direct hit from one of the component bombs
(such as flat-footed from bottled lightning or persistent
damage from an acid flask).
Critical Failure The creature takes double damage, plus all
other effects of a direct hit (as failure).
Craft Requirements Supply six of the same damaging 3rd-level
moderate alchemical bomb.
589
11
Crafting & Treasure
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Skills
Feats
Equipment
Spells
The Age of
Lost OMENS
Playing the
Game
Game
mastering
Crafting
& Treasure
Appendix
