Ancestry Feats
5th
In addition to the initial ancestry feat you started with,
you gain an ancestry feat at 5th level and every 4 levels
thereafter. The list of ancestry feats available to you can
be found in your ancestry’s entry in Chapter 2.
Weapon Tricks
5th
You have become thoroughly familiar with the tools of
your trade. You gain expert proficiency in simple weapons,
as well as the rapier, sap, shortbow, and shortsword.
When you critically succeed at an attack roll against a
flat-footed creature while using an agile or finesse simple
weapon or any of the listed weapons, you apply the critical
specialization effect for the weapon you’re wielding.
Evasion
7th
You’ve learned to move quickly to avoid explosions,
dragons’ breath, and worse. Your proficiency rank for
Reflex saves increases to master. When you roll a success
on a Reflex save, you get a critical success instead.
Vigilant Senses
7th
Through your adventures, you’ve developed keen
awareness and attention to detail. Your proficiency rank
for Perception increases to master.
Weapon Specialization
7th
You’ve learned how to inflict greater injuries with the
weapons you know best. You deal 2 additional damage
with weapons and unarmed attacks in which you are an
expert. This damage increases to 3 damage if you’re a
master, and 4 damage if you’re legendary.
Debilitating Strike
9th
When taking advantage of an opening, you both hinder and
harm your foe. You gain the Debilitating Strike free action.
DEBILITATING STRIKE [free-action]
ROGUE
Trigger Your Strike hits a flat-footed creature and deals damage.
You apply one of the following debilitations, which lasts until
the end of your next turn.
Debilitation The target takes a –10-foot status penalty to
its Speeds.
Debilitation The target becomes enfeebled 1.
Great Fortitude
9th
Your physique is incredibly hardy. Your proficiency rank
for Fortitude saves increases to expert.
Rogue Expertise
11th
Your techniques are now harder to resist. Your proficiency
rank for your rogue class DC increases to expert.
Improved Evasion
13th
You elude danger to a degree that few can match.
Your  proficiency rank for Reflex saves increases to
legendary. When you roll a critical failure on a Reflex
save, you get a failure instead. When you fail a Reflex
save against a damaging effect, you take half damage.
Incredible Senses
13th
You notice things almost impossible for an ordinary
person to detect. Your proficiency rank for Perception
increases to legendary.
Light Armor Expertise
13th
You’ve learned how to dodge while wearing light or
no armor. Your proficiency ranks for light armor and
unarmored defense increase to expert.
Master Tricks
13th
You’ve mastered a rogue’s fighting moves. Your proficiency
ranks increase to master for all simple weapons plus the
rapier, sap, shortbow, and shortsword.
Double Debilitation
15th
Your opportunistic attacks are particularly detrimental.
When you use Debilitating Strike, you can apply two
debilitations simultaneously; removing one removes both.
Greater Weapon Specialization
15th
Your damage from weapon specialization increases to 4
with weapons and unarmed attacks in which you’re an
expert, 6 if you’re a master, and 8 if you’re legendary.
Slippery Mind
17th
You play mental games and employ cognitive tricks to
throw off mind-altering effects. Your proficiency rank for
Will saves increases to master. When you roll a success at
a Will save, you get a critical success instead.
Light Armor Mastery
19th
Your skill with light armor improves, increasing your
ability to dodge blows. Your proficiency ranks for light
armor and unarmored defense increase to master.
Master Strike
19th
You can incapacitate an unwary foe with a single strike.
Your proficiency rank for your rogue class DC increases
to master. You gain the Master Strike free action.
MASTER STRIKE[free-action]
INCAPACITATION
ROGUE
Trigger Your Strike hits a flat-footed creature and deals damage.
The target attempts a Fortitude save at your class DC. It then
becomes temporarily immune to your Master Strike for 1 day.
Critical Success The target is unaffected.
Success The target is enfeebled 2 until the end of your next turn.
Failure The target is paralyzed for 4 rounds.
Critical Failure The target is paralyzed for 4 rounds, knocked
unconscious for 2 hours, or killed (your choice).
Core Rulebook
182
