rolls with the weapon, and a striking rune increases the
weapon’s number of weapon damage dice.
The Prices here are for all types of weapons. You don’t need
to adjust the Price from a club to a greataxe or the like. These
weapons are made of standard materials, not precious
materials such as cold iron.
Type +1 weapon; Level 2; Price 35 gp
This weapon has a +1 weapon potency rune (+1 item bonus to
attack rolls with the weapon).
Type +1 striking weapon; Level 4; Price 100 gp
This weapon has a +1 weapon potency rune (+1 item
bonus to attack rolls with the weapon) and a striking
rune (one extra damage die).
Type +2 striking weapon; Level 10; Price 1,000 gp
This weapon has a +2 weapon potency rune (+2 item bonus
to attack rolls with the weapon) and a striking rune (one
additional damage die).
Type +2 greater striking weapon; Level 12; Price 2,000 gp
This weapon has a +2 weapon potency rune (+2 item bonus
to attack rolls with the weapon) and a greater striking rune
(two extra damage dice).
Type +3 greater striking weapon; Level 16; Price 10,000 gp
This weapon has a +3 weapon potency rune (+3 item bonus to
attack rolls with the weapon) and a greater striking rune (two
extra damage dice).
Type +3 major striking weapon; Level 19; Price 40,000 gp
This weapon has a +3 weapon potency rune (+3 item bonus to
attack rolls with the weapon) and a major striking rune (three
extra damage dice).
Specific Magic Weapons
These weapons have abilities far different from
what can be gained by simply etching runes. A
specific magic weapon lists its fundamental runes, which
you can upgrade, add, or transfer as normal. You can’t
etch any property runes onto a specific weapon that it
doesn’t already have.
BLOODLETTING KUKRI
ITEM 6
UNCOMMON
 MAGICAL
 NECROMANCY
Price 240 gp
Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk L
This +1 striking kukri has a crimson blade that shimmers
eerily in bright light. On a critical hit, the kukri deals
1d8 persistent bleed damage. If the target didn’t already
have persistent bleed damage when you scored the
critical hit, you also gain 1d8 temporary Hit Points.
CATERWAUL SLING
ITEM 5
 EVOCATION
MAGICAL
Price 155 gp
Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk L
Made of shiny brown leather, this +1 striking sling has a single
white thread interwoven into its cord.
Activate [two-actions] Interact (sonic); Frequency once per day;
Effect You pull the white thread free, then whirl the sling in
circles at high speed. It lets out an ear-piercing wave of sound.
Each creature in a 30-foot cone takes 4d6 sonic damage (DC
21 basic Fortitude save). Any creature that fails is deafened
for 1 round, or 1 hour on a critical failure.
DAGGER OF VENOM
ITEM 5
MAGICAL
 NECROMANCY
 POISON
Price 150 gp
Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk L
The serrated blade of this +1 striking dagger has a greenish
tinge, and the hilt is sculpted to look like the head of a serpent
about to strike. When you critically succeed at an attack roll
with the dagger of venom, the target becomes sickened
1 unless it succeeds at a DC 19 Fortitude save. This is a
poison effect. In addition, you can activate the dagger to
poison a creature with a more potent poison.
Activate [free-action] Interact; Frequency once per day; Trigger
You damage a creature with the dagger of venom; Effect You
poison the creature you hit with dagger venom.
Dagger Venom (poison); Saving Throw Fortitude DC 21;
Maximum Duration 4 rounds. Stage 1 1d8 poison damage
and enfeebled 1.
DWARVEN THROWER
ITEM 13
EVOCATION
 MAGICAL
Price 2,750 gp
Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk 1
This +2 striking warhammer is inlaid with precious
metals and decorated with geometric patterns in
a dwarven style. If you’re a dwarf, a dwarven
thrower functions for you as a +2 greater striking
returning warhammer with the thrown 30 feet
trait, and your attacks with the hammer deal 1d8
additional damage against giants.
FIGHTER’S FORK 
ITEM 3
MAGICAL
 TRANSMUTATION
Price 50 gp
Usage held in 1 or 2 hands; Bulk 1
This +1 trident, usually engraved with a decorative pattern
resembling fish scales, is a common weapon among warriors
of aquatic ancestries.
Activate [one-action] Interact; Effect You extend or shorten the
trident’s haft. When extended, the trident requires two hands
to wield and gains the reach trait, but loses the trident’s
normal thrown trait.
FLAME TONGUE
ITEM 13+
EVOCATION
 FIRE
 MAGICAL
Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk 1
This +2 greater striking flaming longsword has an ornate brass
hilt and a blade shaped like stylized flames. When wielded, the
blade projects illumination resembling shimmering firelight,
emitting dim light in a 10-foot radius.
Activate [two-actions] command, Interact; Effect You cast the
produce flame cantrip from the sword as a 7th-level arcane
Core Rulebook
600
