Critical Success The creature or object is unaffected.
Success The creature or object takes half damage.
Failure The creature or object takes full damage.
Critical Failure The creature or object takes double damage.
If it’s a creature, it becomes blinded by the darkness for
an unlimited duration. Heightened (+1) The cold damage
increases by 1d10 and the negative damage against the living
increases by 1d4.
ELECTRIC ARC
CANTRIP 1
CANTRIP
ELECTRICITY
EVOCATION
Traditions arcane, primal
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal
Range 30 feet; Targets 1 or 2 creatures
Saving Throw basic Reflex
An arc of lightning leaps from one target to another. You
deal electricity damage equal to 1d4 plus your spellcasting
ability modifier.
Heightened (+1) The damage increases by 1d4.
ELEMENTAL FORM
SPELL 5
POLYMORPH
TRANSMUTATION
Traditions arcane, primal
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal
Duration 1 minute
You call upon the power of the planes to transform into a
Medium elemental battle form. When you cast this spell,
choose air, earth, fire, or water. While in this form, you gain
the corresponding trait and the elemental trait. You have
hands in this battle form and can take manipulate actions.
You can Dismiss the spell.
You gain the following statistics and abilities regardless of
which battle form you choose:
•	 AC = 19 + your level. Ignore your armor’s check penalty
and Speed reduction.
•	 10 temporary Hit Points.
•	 Darkvision.
•	 One or more unarmed melee attacks specific to the
battle form you choose, which are the only attacks
you can use. You’re trained with them. Your attack
modifier is +18, and your damage bonus is +9. These
are Dexterity based (air or fire) or Strength based
(earth or water). If your corresponding unarmed attack
modifier is higher, you can use it instead.
•	 Acrobatics (air or fire) or Athletics (earth or water)
modifier of +20; ignore this change if your own
modifier is higher.
You also gain specific abilities based on the type of
elemental you choose:
•	 Air fly Speed 80 feet, movement doesn’t trigger
reactions; Melee [one-action] gust, Damage 1d4 bludgeoning.
•	 Earth Speed 20 feet, burrow Speed 20 feet; Melee [one-action]
fist, Damage 2d10 bludgeoning.
•	 Fire Speed 50 feet; fire resistance 10, weakness 5 to
cold and 5 to water; Melee [one-action] tendril, Damage 1d8 fire
plus 1d4 persistent fire.
•	 Water Speed 20 feet, swim Speed 60 feet; fire
resistance 5; Melee [one-action] wave, Damage 1d12
bludgeoning, and you can spend an action
immediately after a hit to push the target 5 feet with
the effects of a successful Shove.
Heightened (6th) Your battle form is Large and your attacks
have 10-foot reach. You must have space to expand or the spell
is lost. You instead gain AC = 22 + your level, 15 temporary
HP, an attack modifier of +23, a damage bonus of +13, and
Acrobatics or Athletics +23.
Heightened (7th) Your battle form is Huge and your attacks
have 15-foot reach. You must have space to expand or the spell
is lost. You instead gain AC = 22 + your level, 20 temporary
HP, an attack modifier of +25, a damage bonus of +11, double
the number of damage dice (including persistent damage), and
Acrobatics or Athletics +25.
ENDURE ELEMENTS
SPELL 2
ABJURATION
Traditions arcane, divine, primal
Cast 10 minutes (somatic, verbal)
Range touch; Targets 1 willing creature
Duration until the next time you make your daily preparations
You shield the target against dangerous temperatures.
Choose severe cold or heat. The target is protected from the
temperature you chose (but not extreme cold or heat).
Heightened (3rd) The target is protected from severe cold
and heat.
Heightened (5th) The target is protected from severe cold,
severe heat, extreme cold, and extreme heat.
ENERGY AEGIS
SPELL 7
ABJURATION
Traditions arcane, divine, occult, primal
Cast 1 minute (material, somatic, verbal)
Range touch; Targets 1 creature
Duration 24 hours
You protect the target with a powerful, long-lasting energy
barrier. The target gains resistance 5 to acid, cold, electricity,
fire, force, negative, positive, and sonic damage.
Heightened (9th) The resistances increase to 10.
ENHANCE VICTUALS
SPELL 2
TRANSMUTATION
Traditions divine, primal
Cast 1 minute (material, somatic, verbal)
Range touch; Targets up to 1 gallon of non-magical water or up
to 5 pounds of food
Duration 1 hour
You transform the target into delicious fare, changing water
into wine or another fine beverage or enhancing the food’s
taste and ingredients to make it a gourmet treat.
Prior to the transformation, the spell attempts to counteract
any poisons in the food or water. The food turns back to
normal if not consumed before the duration expires, though
any poisons that were counteracted are still gone.
335
7
SPELLS
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Skills
Feats
Equipment
Spells
The Age of
Lost OMENS
Playing the
Game
Game
mastering
Crafting
& Treasure
Appendix
