ENHANCED FAMILIAR
FEAT 2
WIZARD
Prerequisites a familiar
You infuse your familiar with additional magical energy. You
can select four familiar or master abilities each day, instead
of two.
Special If your arcane thesis is improved familiar attunement,
your familiar’s base number of familiar abilities, before adding
any extra abilities from the arcane thesis, is four.
4TH LEVEL
BESPELL WEAPON [free-action]
FEAT 4
WIZARD
Frequency once per turn
Requirements Your most recent action was to cast a
non‑cantrip spell.
You siphon spell energy into one weapon you’re wielding. Until
the end of your turn, the weapon deals an extra 1d6 damage
of a type depending on the school of the spell you just cast.
•	 Abjuration force damage
•	 Conjuration or Transmutation the same type as the weapon
•	 Divination, Enchantment, or Illusion mental damage
•	 Evocation a type the spell dealt, or force damage if the
spell didn’t deal damage
•	 Necromancy negative damage
LINKED FOCUS
FEAT 4
WIZARD
Prerequisites arcane bond, arcane school
Frequency once per day
You have linked your bonded item to the well of energy that
powers your school spells. When you Drain your Bonded Item to
cast a spell of your arcane school, you also regain 1 Focus Point.
SILENT SPELL [one-action]
FEAT 4
CONCENTRATE
METAMAGIC
WIZARD
Prerequisites Conceal Spell
You’ve learned how to cast many of your spells without
speaking the words of power you would normally need to
provide. If the next action you use is Casting a Spell that has
a verbal component and at least one other component, you can
remove the verbal component. This makes the spell quieter and
allows you to cast it in areas where sound can’t carry. However,
the spell still has visual manifestations, so this doesn’t make
the spell any less obvious to someone who sees you casting it.
When you use Silent Spell, you can choose to gain the benefits
of Conceal Spell, and you don’t need to attempt a Deception
check because the spell has no verbal components.
6TH LEVEL
SPELL PENETRATION 
FEAT 6
WIZARD
You’ve studied ways of overcoming the innate magical
resistance that dragons, otherworldly beings, and certain
KEY TERM
You’ll see the following key term in many wizard abilities.
Metamagic: Actions with the metamagic trait tweak
the properties of your spells. These actions usually come
from metamagic feats. You must use a metamagic action
directly before Casting the Spell you want to alter. If you
use any action (including free actions and reactions) other
than Cast a Spell directly after, you waste the benefits of
the metamagic action. Any additional effects added by a
metamagic action are part of the spell’s effect, not of the
metamagic action itself.
REACH SPELL [one-action]
FEAT 1
CONCENTRATE
METAMAGIC
WIZARD
You can extend the range of your spells. If the next action you
use is to Cast a Spell that has a range, increase that spell’s range
by 30 feet. As is standard for increasing spell ranges, if the spell
normally has a range of touch, you extend its range to 30 feet.
WIDEN SPELL [one-action]
FEAT 1
MANIPULATE
METAMAGIC
WIZARD
You manipulate the energy of your spell, causing it to affect a
wider area. If the next action you use is to Cast a Spell that has
an area of a burst, cone, or line and does not have a duration,
increase the area of that spell. Add 5 feet to the radius of a
burst that normally has a radius of at least 10 feet (a burst
with a smaller radius is not affected). Add 5 feet to the length
of a cone or line that is normally 15 feet long or smaller, and
add 10 feet to the length of a larger cone or line.
2ND LEVEL
CANTRIP EXPANSION
FEAT 2
WIZARD
Dedicated study allows you to prepare a wider range of simple
spells. You can prepare two additional cantrips each day.
CONCEAL SPELL [one-action]
FEAT 2
CONCENTRATE
MANIPULATE
METAMAGIC
WIZARD
Hiding your gestures and incantations within other speech
and movement, you attempt to conceal the fact that you are
Casting a Spell. If the next action you use is to Cast a Spell,
attempt a Stealth check against one or more observers’
Perception DCs; if the spell has verbal components, you
must also attempt a Deception check against the observers’
Perception DC. If you succeed at your check (or checks)
against an observer’s DC, that observer doesn’t notice you’re
casting a spell, even though material, somatic, and verbal
components are usually noticeable and spells normally have
sensory manifestations that would make spellcasting obvious
to those nearby.
This ability hides only the spell’s spellcasting actions and
manifestations, not its effects, so an observer might still see a
ray streak out from you or see you vanish into thin air.
Core Rulebook
210
