Critical Success You prevent the trap from being triggered, or
you delay the activation until the start or end of your next
turn (your choice).
Success You prevent the trap from being triggered, or
you delay the activation until the end of your next turn
(whichever is worse for you; GM’s choice).
Failure No effect.
Critical Failure You’re flat-footed until the start of your next turn.
IMPROVED POISON WEAPON
FEAT 8
ROGUE
Prerequisites Poison Weapon
You deliver poisons in ways that maximize their harmful
effects. When you apply a simple poison with Poison Weapon,
the poison deals 2d4 poison damage instead of 1d4 poison
damage. You don’t waste a poison you apply with Poison
Weapon on a critically failed attack roll.
NIMBLE ROLL
FEAT 8
ROGUE
Prerequisites Nimble Dodge
You throw yourself into a roll to escape imminent danger.
You can use Nimble Dodge before attempting a Reflex save
in addition to its original trigger. If you do, the circumstance
bonus applies to your Reflex save against the triggering effect.
When you use Nimble Dodge and the triggering attack fails
or critically fails, or when you succeed or critically succeed
at the saving throw, you can also Stride up to 10 feet as part
of the reaction. If you do, the reaction gains the move trait.
You can use Nimble Roll while Flying or Swimming instead of
Striding if you have the corresponding movement type.
OPPORTUNE BACKSTAB [reaction]
FEAT 8
ROGUE
Trigger A creature within your melee reach is hit by a melee
attack from one of your allies.
When your enemy is hit by your ally, you capitalize upon the
distraction. Make a Strike against the triggering creature.
SIDESTEP [reaction]
FEAT 8
ROGUE
Trigger The attack roll for a Strike targeting you fails or
critically fails.
You deftly step out of the way of an attack, letting the blow
continue to the creature next to you. You redirect the attack to
a creature of your choice that is adjacent to you and within the
reach of the triggering attack. The attacker rerolls the Strike’s
attack roll against the new target.
SLY STRIKER
FEAT 8
ROGUE
Prerequisites sneak attack
Your attacks deal more damage, even against creatures that
aren’t flat-footed. When you succeed or critically succeed at a
Strike against a creature that isn’t flat-footed, you also deal 1d6
precision damage. This applies only if you’re using a weapon or
unarmed attack you could deal sneak attack damage with. At
14th level, if you would normally deal 3d6 or more sneak attack
damage to flat-footed creatures, you deal 2d6 precision damage
to creatures that aren’t flat‑footed.
10TH LEVEL
PRECISE DEBILITATIONS
FEAT 10
ROGUE
Prerequisites thief racket, Debilitating Strike
You carefully aim and gracefully deliver your debilitations.
Add the following debilitations to the list you can choose from
when you use Debilitating Strike.
•	 Debilitation The target takes an additional 2d6
precision damage from your attacks.
•	 Debilitation The target becomes flat-footed.
SNEAK SAVANT
FEAT 10
ROGUE
Prerequisite master in Stealth
It is almost impossible to spot you without taking effort to
look. When you roll a failure on a Sneak action, you get a
success instead. You can still critically fail.
TACTICAL DEBILITATIONS
FEAT 10
ROGUE
Prerequisites scoundrel racket, Debilitating Strike
You learn new debilitations that grant you tactical advantages
against your foes. Add the following debilitations to the list
you can choose from when you use Debilitating Strike.
•	 Debilitation The target can’t use reactions.
•	 Debilitation The target can’t flank or contribute to allies’
flanking.
VICIOUS DEBILITATIONS
FEAT 10
ROGUE
Prerequisites ruffian racket, Debilitating Strike
The debilitations you dish out seriously impair your foes. Add
the following debilitations to the list you can choose from
when you use Debilitating Strike.
•	 Debilitation The target gains weakness 5 to your
choice of bludgeoning, piercing, or slashing damage.
•	 Debilitation The target becomes clumsy 1.
12TH LEVEL
CRITICAL DEBILITATION
FEAT 12
INCAPACITATION
ROGUE
Prerequisites Debilitating Strike
Your debilitations are especially effective on your most
powerful attacks. Whenever you critically succeed at an
attack roll against an enemy and use Debilitating Strike, add
the following debilitation to the list you can choose from.
•	 Debilitation The target attempts a Fortitude save
against your class DC with the following effects.
Critical Success The target is unaffected.
187
3
CLASSES
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Skills
Feats
Equipment
Spells
The Age of
Lost OMENS
Playing the
Game
Game
mastering
Crafting
& Treasure
Appendix
