Severe-threat encounters are the hardest encounters
most groups of characters can consistently defeat. These
encounters are most appropriate for important moments in
your story, such as confronting a final boss. Bad luck, poor
tactics, or a lack of resources due to prior encounters can
easily turn a severe-threat encounter against the characters,
and a wise group keeps the option to disengage open.
Extreme-threat encounters are so dangerous that
they are likely to be an even match for the characters,
particularly if the characters are low on resources. This
makes them too challenging for most uses. An extreme-
threat encounter might be appropriate for a fully rested
group of characters that can go all-out, for the climactic
encounter at the end of an entire campaign, or for a group
of veteran players using advanced tactics and teamwork.
XP Budget
Once you’ve selected a threat level, it’s time to build the
encounter. You have an XP budget based on the threat,
and each creature costs some of that budget. Start with
the monsters or NPCs that are most important to the
encounter, then decide how you want to use the rest
of your XP budget. Many encounters won’t match the
XP budget exactly, but they should come close. The XP
budget is based on a group of four characters. If your
group is larger or smaller, see Different Party Sizes below.
Choosing Creatures
In all but the most unusual circumstances, you’ll select
creatures for your encounter that range from 4 levels
lower than the PCs’ level to 4 levels higher (see Table
10–2: Creature XP and Role). Each creature has a part
to play in your encounter, from a lowly lackey to a boss
so mighty it could defeat the entire party single-handedly.
Each creature costs some of the XP from your XP
budget for the encounter, based on its level compared to
the levels of the characters in your party. For instance,
if the PCs are 5th level, a 2nd-level creature is a “party
level – 3” creature, a lackey appropriate for a low-
to-moderate-threat encounter, and it costs 15 XP in an
encounter’s XP budget. Party level is explained in detail
on page 508.
Different Party Sizes
For each additional character in the party beyond the
fourth, increase your XP budget by the amount shown
in the Character Adjustment value for your encounter in
Table 10–1: Encounter Budget. If you have fewer than
four characters, use the same process in reverse: for each
missing character, remove that amount of XP from your
XP budget. Note that if you adjust your XP budget to
account for party size, the XP awards for the encounter
don’t change—you’ll always award the amount of XP
listed for a group of four characters.
It’s best to use the XP increase from more characters to
add more enemies or hazards, and the XP decrease from
fewer characters to subtract enemies and hazards, rather
than making one enemy tougher or weaker. Encounters
are typically more satisfying if the number of enemy
creatures is fairly close to the number of player characters.
Running a Game Session
A campaign happens over a series of sessions. Each session
is usually several hours long, with multiple encounters,
some exploration, and possibly downtime. Your session
can be compared to an episode of a TV show; it should
include some twists, turns, and changes, and end leaving
people excited about what comes next.
PLANNING A SESSION
One of the greatest challenges in gaming is scheduling
a time for everyone to get together and play. Often, this
responsibility falls on you as the GM, since you’re the one
who has to prepare your game between sessions. Many
games have a set schedule, such as once per week, once
every 2 weeks, or once per month. The less frequently
your group meets, the better notes and recaps you’ll need
to keep everyone on the same page.
Plan a time for everybody will arrive, and also try to
set a time when playing the game will begin. This can
make it easier for everyone to finish chatting, catching
up, and eating in a timely fashion so you can start
playing the game. Having an end time in mind is also
fairly important. A typical game session lasts about 4
hours, though some groups hold 2-hour sessions or play
marathon games. Less than 2 hours usually isn’t enough
time to get much done in most Pathfinder campaigns. If
your session will be longer than 2 hours, plan out some
15-minute breaks (in addition to bathroom and beverage
breaks, which players can take as needed).
TABLE 10–1: ENCOUNTER BUDGET
Threat
XP Budget
Character Adjustment
Trivial
40 or less
10 or less
Low
60
15
Moderate
80
20
Severe
120
30
Extreme
160
40
TABLE 10–2: CREATURE XP AND ROLE
Creature Level	 XP
Suggested Role
Party level – 4	 10
Low-threat lackey
Party level – 3	 15
Low- or moderate-threat lackey
Party level – 2	 20
Any lackey or standard creature
Party level – 1	 30
Any standard creature
Party level
40
Any standard creature or low-threat


boss
Party level + 1	 60
Low- or moderate-threat boss
Party level + 2	 80
Moderate- or severe-threat boss
Party level + 3	 120	 Severe- or extreme-threat boss
Party level + 4	 160	 Extreme-threat solo boss
GAME MASTERING
489
10
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Skills
Feats
Equipment
Spells
The Age of
Lost OMENS
Playing the
Game
Game
mastering
Crafting
& Treasure
Appendix
