skill increase. You can use this increase to either become
trained in one skill, or become an expert in one skill in
which you’re already trained.
At 7th level, you can use skill increases to become a
master in a skill in which you’re already an expert, and
at 15th level, you can use them to become legendary in a
skill in which you’re already a master.
Ability Boosts
5th
At 5th level and every 5 levels thereafter, you boost four
different ability scores. You can use these ability boosts to
increase your ability scores above 18. Boosting an ability
score increases it by 1 if it’s already 18 or above, or by 2
if it starts out below 18.
Ancestry Feats
5th
In addition to the ancestry feat you started with, you gain
an ancestry feat at 5th level and every 4 levels thereafter.
The list of ancestry feats available to you can be found in
your ancestry’s entry in Chapter 2.
Trackless Step
5th
When you move through natural terrains, you are difficult
to track. You always gain the benefits of the Cover Tracks
action in such terrains, without moving at half your Speed.
Weapon Expertise
5th
You’ve dedicated yourself to learning the intricacies of
your weapons. Your proficiency ranks for simple and
martial weapons increases to expert. You gain access to
the critical specialization effects of all simple and martial
weapons when attacking your hunted prey.
Evasion
7th
You’ve learned to move quickly to avoid explosions,
dragons’ breath, and worse. Your proficiency rank for
Reflex saves increases to master. When you roll a success
on a Reflex save, you get a critical success instead.
Vigilant Senses
7th
Through your adventuring, you’ve developed keen
awareness and attention to detail. Your proficiency rank
for Perception increases to master.
Weapon Specialization
7th
You’ve learned how to inflict greater injuries with the
weapons you know best. You deal 2 additional damage with
weapons and unarmed attacks in which you are an expert.
This damage increases to 3 if you’re a master, and to 4 if
you’re legendary.
Nature’s Edge
9th
You always find the weak points in your foes’ defenses when
they’re on unfavorable terrain. Enemies are flat-footed to
you if they’re in natural difficult terrain, on natural uneven
ground, or in difficult terrain resulting from a snare.
Ranger Expertise
9th
You’ve practiced your techniques to make them harder
to resist. Your proficiency rank for your ranger class DC
increases to expert.
Juggernaut
11th
Your body is accustomed to physical hardship and
resistant to ailments. Your proficiency rank for Fortitude
saves increases to master. When you roll a success on a
Fortitude save, you get a critical success instead.
Medium Armor Expertise
11th
You’ve learned to defend yourself better against attacks.
Your proficiency ranks for light armor, medium armor,
and unarmored defense increase to expert.
Wild Stride
11th
You move quickly through obstacles, whether they’re
tumbled stone, tangled undergrowth, or sucking mud.
You can ignore the effects of non-magical difficult
terrain. As normal for ignoring difficult terrain, this also
lets you treat the hindrances of greater difficult terrain
as those of difficult terrain.
Weapon Mastery
13th
You fully understand the intricacies of your weapons.
Your proficiency ranks for simple and martial weapons
increase to master.
Greater Weapon Specialization
15th
Your damage from weapon specialization increases to 4
with weapons and unarmed attacks in which you’re an
expert, 6 if you’re a master, and 8 if you’re legendary.
KEY TERMS
You’ll see these key terms in many ranger class features.
Flourish: Actions with this trait are special techniques
that require too much exertion for you to perform
frequently. You can use only 1 action with the flourish trait
per turn.
Open: These maneuvers work only as the first salvo in
the attacks you make on your turn. You can use an action
with the open trait only if you haven’t used an action
with the attack or open trait yet this turn.
Press: Actions with this trait allow you to follow up earlier
attacks. An action with the press trait can be used only if
you are currently affected by a multiple attack penalty.
Some actions with the press trait also grant an effect
on a failure. The effects that are added on a failure don’t
apply on a critical failure. If your press action succeeds,
you can choose to apply the failure effect instead. (For
example, you may wish to do this when an attack deals
no damage due to resistance.) Because a press action
requires a multiple attack penalty, you can’t use one when
it’s not your turn, even if you use the Ready activity.
169
3
CLASSES
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Skills
Feats
Equipment
Spells
The Age of
Lost OMENS
Playing the
Game
Game
mastering
Crafting
& Treasure
Appendix
