SAMPLE WIZARD
than the highest-level wizard spell you can cast, reduce the
number of actions to cast it by 1 (minimum 1 action).
SCROLL SAVANT
FEAT 10
WIZARD
Prerequisites expert in Crafting
During your daily preparations, you can create two temporary
scrolls containing arcane spells from your spellbook. These
scrolls follow the normal rules for scrolls (page 564), with some
additional restrictions. Each scroll must be of a different spell
level, and both spell levels must be 2 or more levels lower than
your highest-level spell. Any scrolls you create this way become
non‑magical the next time you make your daily preparations. A
temporary scroll has no value.
If you have master proficiency in arcane spell DCs, you can
create three temporary scrolls during your daily preparations,
and if you have legendary proficiency, you can create four
temporary scrolls.
12TH LEVEL
CLEVER COUNTERSPELL
FEAT 12
WIZARD
Prerequisites Counterspell, Quick Recognize
You creatively apply your prepared spells to Counterspell a
much wider variety of your opponents’ magic. Instead of being
able to counter a foe’s spell with Counterspell only if you have
that same spell prepared, you can use Counterspell as long as
you have the spell the foe is casting in your spellbook. When
you use Counterspell in this way, the prepared spell you expend
must share a trait other than its tradition with the triggering
spell. At the GM’s discretion, you can instead use a spell that
has an opposing trait or that otherwise logically would counter
the triggering spell (such as using a cold or water spell to
counter fireball or using remove fear to counter a fear spell).
Regardless of what spell you expend, you take a –2 penalty to
your counteract check, though the GM can waive this penalty if
the expended spell is especially appropriate.
MAGIC SENSE 
FEAT 12
ARCANE
DETECTION
DIVINATION
WIZARD
You have a literal sixth sense for ambient magic in your vicinity.
You can sense the presence of magic auras as though you were
always using a 1st-level detect magic spell. This detects magic in
your field of vision only. When you Seek, you gain the benefits
of a 3rd-level detect magic spell on things you see (in addition
to the normal benefits of Seeking). You can turn this sense off
and on with a free action at the start or the end of your turn.
14TH LEVEL
BONDED FOCUS
FEAT 14
WIZARD
Prerequisites arcane bond
Your connection to your bonded item increases your focus pool.
If you have spent at least 2 Focus Points since the last time
ILLUSIONIST
You cast illusory spells that fool the senses, and you
excel at bypassing threats without violence.
ABILITY SCORES
Prioritize Intelligence. Increase Dexterity and Charisma
so you can sneak and deceive people with skills as well
as spells.
SKILLS
Arcana, Deception, Diplomacy, Occultism, Society,
Stealth, Thievery
SPECIALIZATION
Illusion
THESIS
Spell blending
HIGHER-LEVEL FEATS
Conceal Spell (2nd), Silent Spell (4th), Advanced School
Spell (8th), Magic Sense (12th)
Core Rulebook
212
