Skill Increases
3rd
At 3rd level and every 2 levels thereafter, you gain a skill
increase. You can use this increase either to increase your
proficiency rank to trained in one skill you’re untrained
in, or to increase your proficiency rank in one skill in
which you’re already trained to expert.
At 7th level, you can use skill increases to increase
your proficiency rank to master in a skill in which you’re
already an expert, and at 15th level, you can use them to
increase your proficiency rank to legendary in a skill in
which you’re already a master.
Ability Boosts
5th
At 5th level and every 5 levels thereafter, you boost four
different ability scores. You can use these ability boosts to
increase your ability scores above 18. Boosting an ability
score increases it by 1 if it’s already 18 or above, or by 2
if it starts out below 18.
Ancestry Feats
5th
In addition to the ancestry feat you started with, you gain
an ancestry feat at 5th level and every 4 levels thereafter.
The list of ancestry feats available to you can be found in
your ancestry’s entry in Chapter 2.
Lightning Reflexes
5th
Your reflexes are lightning fast. Your proficiency rank for
Reflex saves increases to expert.
Expert Spellcaster
7th
Your command of primal forces has deepened, empowering
your spells. Your proficiency ranks for primal spell attack
rolls and spell DCs increase to expert.
Druid Weapon Expertise
11th
You have become thoroughly familiar with the weapons
of your trade. Your proficiency ranks for all simple
weapons and unarmed attacks increase to expert.
Resolve
11th
You’ve steeled your mind with incredible resolve. Your
proficiency rank for Will saves increases to master.
When you roll a success at a Will save, you get a
critical success instead.
Medium Armor Expertise
13th
You’ve learned to defend yourself better against attacks.
Your proficiency ranks for light armor, medium armor,
and unarmored defense increase to expert.
Weapon Specialization
13th
You’ve learned how to inflict greater injuries with the
weapons you know best. You deal 2 additional damage with
weapons and unarmed attacks in which you are an expert.
This damage increases to 3 if you’re a master, and to 4 if
you’re legendary.
Master Spellcaster
15th
Primal magic answers your command. Your proficiency
ranks for primal spell attack rolls and spell DCs increase
to master.
Legendary Spellcaster
19th
You have developed an unparalleled rapport with the
magic of nature. Your proficiency ranks for primal spell
attack rolls and spell DCs increase to legendary.
Primal Hierophant
19th
You command the most potent forces of primal magic
and can cast a spell of truly incredible power. You gain
a single 10th-level spell slot and can prepare a spell in
that slot using primal spellcasting. Unlike with other spell
slots, you don’t gain more 10th-level spells as you level
up, though you can take the Hierophant’s Power feat to
gain a second slot.
Druid Feats
At every level that you gain a druid feat, you can select one
of the following feats. You must satisfy any prerequisites
before selecting the feat.
1ST LEVEL
ANIMAL COMPANION
FEAT 1
DRUID
Prerequisites animal order
You gain the service of a young animal companion that
travels with you on your adventures and obeys any simple
commands you give it to the best of its abilities. See Animal
Companions on page 214 for more information.
LESHY FAMILIAR
FEAT 1
DRUID
Prerequisites leaf order
You gain a leshy familiar, a Tiny plant that embodies one of the
many spirits of nature. Other than taking the form of a plant
instead of an animal, this familiar uses all the same rules as
other familiars, which are detailed on page 217.
KEY TERMS
You’ll see the following key term in many druid
class features.
Metamagic: Actions with the metamagic trait tweak
the properties of your spells. These actions usually come
from metamagic feats. You must use the metamagic action
directly before Casting the Spell you want to alter. If you
use any action (including free actions and reactions) other
than Cast a Spell directly after, you waste the benefits of
the metamagic action. Any additional effects added by a
metamagic action are part of the spell’s effect, not of the
metamagic action itself.
133
3
CLASSES
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Skills
Feats
Equipment
Spells
The Age of
Lost OMENS
Playing the
Game
Game
mastering
Crafting
& Treasure
Appendix
