score increases it by 1 if it’s already 18 or above, or by 2
if it starts out below 18.
Alertness
5th
You remain alert to threats around you. Your proficiency
rank for Perception increases to expert.
Ancestry Feats
5th
In addition to the ancestry feat you started with, you gain
an ancestry feat at 5th level and every 4 levels thereafter.
The list of ancestry feats available to you can be found in
your ancestry’s entry in Chapter 2.
Resolve
9th
You’ve steeled your mind with resolve. Your proficiency
rank for Will saves increases to master. When you roll a
success at a Will save, you get a critical success instead.
Lightning Reflexes
11th
Your reflexes are lightning fast. Your proficiency rank for
Reflex saves increases to expert.
Divine Defense
13th
Your training and your deity protect you from harm. Your
proficiency rank in unarmored defense increases to expert.
Weapon Specialization
13th
You’ve learned how to inflict greater injuries with the
weapons you know best. You deal 2 additional damage
with weapons and unarmed attacks in which you are an
expert. This damage increases to 3 if you’re a master, and to
4 if you’re legendary.
Miraculous Spell
19th
You’re exalted by your deity and gain truly incredible
spells. You gain a single 10th-level spell slot and can
prepare a spell in that slot using divine spellcasting.
You don’t gain more 10th-level spells as you level up,
though you can take the Maker of Miracles feat to gain
a second slot.
Cleric Feats
At each level that you gain a cleric feat, you can select one
of the following feats. You must satisfy any prerequisites
before selecting the feat.
1ST LEVEL
DEADLY SIMPLICITY
FEAT 1
CLERIC
Prerequisites deity with a simple favored weapon, trained
with your deity’s favored weapon
Your deity’s weapon is especially powerful in your hands.
When you are wielding your deity’s favored weapon, increase
the damage die size of that weapon by one step.
If your deity’s favored weapon is an unarmed attack (such
as a fist, if you worship Irori) and its damage die is smaller
than d6, instead increase its damage die size to d6.
DOMAIN INITIATE
FEAT 1
CLERIC
Your deity bestows a special spell related to their powers.
Select one domain—a subject of particular interest to you
within your religion—from your deity’s list. You gain an initial
domain spell for that domain, a spell unique to the domain
and not available to other clerics. Each domain’s theme and
domain spells appear in Table 8–2: Domains on page 441.
Domain spells are a type of focus spell. It costs 1 Focus
Point to cast a focus spell, and you start with a focus pool
of 1 Focus Point. You refill your focus pool during your daily
preparations, and you can regain 1 Focus Point by spending 10
minutes using the Refocus activity to pray to your deity or do
service toward their causes.
Focus spells are automatically heightened to half your
level rounded up. Focus spells don’t require spell slots, nor
can you cast them using spell slots. Certain feats can give you
more focus spells and increase the size of your focus pool,
though your focus pool can never hold more than 3 Focus
Points. The full rules for focus spells appear on page 300.
Special You can select this feat multiple times, selecting a
different domain each time and gaining its domain spell.
HARMING HANDS 
FEAT 1
CLERIC
Prerequisites harmful font
The mordant power of your negative energy grows. When you
cast harm, you roll d10s instead of d8s.
HEALING HANDS 
FEAT 1
CLERIC
Prerequisites healing font
Your positive energy is even more vibrant and restorative.
When you cast heal, you roll d10s instead of d8s.
HOLY CASTIGATION 
FEAT 1
CLERIC
Prerequisites good alignment
You combine holy energy with positive energy to damage
demons, devils, and their evil ilk. Heal spells you cast damage
fiends as though they were undead.
KEY TERMS
You’ll see the following term in many cleric class features.
Metamagic: These actions tweak your spells. You must
use a metamagic action directly before Casting the Spell
you want to alter. If you use any action (including free
actions and reactions) other than Cast a Spell directly
after, you waste the benefits of the metamagic action.
Effects added by a metamagic action are part of the
spell’s effect, not of the metamagic action.
121
3
CLASSES
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Skills
Feats
Equipment
Spells
The Age of
Lost OMENS
Playing the
Game
Game
mastering
Crafting
& Treasure
Appendix
