You accept otherworldly energies into your body; while you
are still recognizably yourself, you gain the features of one
of your deity’s servitors. Choose an alignment your deity has
(chaotic, evil, good, or lawful). You can’t cast this spell if you
don’t have a deity or your deity is true neutral. This spell gains
the trait of the alignment you chose.
If you were Medium or smaller, you become Large, as the
effects of enlarge. You must have space to expand into, or the
spell is lost. You also gain the following benefits.
•	 40 temporary Hit Points.
•	 A fly Speed equal to your Speed.
•	 Weakness 10 to the alignment opposite the one
you chose.
•	 A +1 status bonus to saves against spells.
•	 Darkvision.
•	 Your unarmed attacks and weapons deal 1 additional
damage of the chosen alignment type.
•	 One or more unarmed melee attacks. If you chose good
or lawful, your fist attacks deal 2d8 damage. If you
chose chaotic, you gain a bite unarmed attack that
deals 2d10 piercing damage. If you chose evil, you
gain a claws unarmed attack that deals 2d8 slashing
damage and has the agile and finesse traits.
Heightened (9th) The temporary Hit Points increase to 60,
the weakness increases to 15, and the duration increases to
10 minutes.
DIVINE WRATH
SPELL 4
EVOCATION
Traditions divine
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal
Range 120 feet; Area 20-foot burst
Saving Throw Fortitude
You can channel the fury of your deity against foes of opposed
alignment. Choose an alignment your deity has (chaotic, evil,
good, or lawful). You can’t cast this spell if you don’t have a
deity or your deity is true neutral. This spell gains the trait
of the alignment you chose. You deal 4d10 damage of the
alignment you chose; each creature in the area must attempt a
Fortitude save. Creatures that match the alignment you chose
are unaffected. Those that neither match nor oppose it treat
the result of their saving throw as one degree better.
Critical Success The creature is unaffected.
Success The creature takes half damage.
Failure The creature takes full damage and is sickened 1.
Critical Failure The creature takes full damage and is sickened
2; while it is sickened, it is also slowed 1.
Heightened (+1) The damage increases by 1d10.
DOMINATE
SPELL 6
UNCOMMON
ENCHANTMENT
INCAPACITATION
MENTAL
Traditions arcane, occult
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal
Range 30 feet; Targets 1 creature
Saving Throw Will; Duration until the next time you make
your daily preparations
You take command of the target, forcing it to obey your orders.
If  you issue an obviously self-destructive order, the target
doesn’t act until you issue a new order. The effect depends
on its Will save.
Critical Success The target is unaffected.
Success The target is stunned 1 as it fights off your commands.
Failure The target follows your orders but can attempt a Will save
at the end of each of its turns. On a success, the spell ends.
Critical Failure As a failure, but the target receives a new save
only if you give it a new order that is against its nature,
such as killing its allies.
Heightened (10th) The duration is unlimited.
DRAGON FORM
SPELL 6
POLYMORPH
TRANSMUTATION
Traditions arcane, primal
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal
Duration 1 minute
Calling upon powerful transformative magic, you gain a Large
dragon battle form. You must have space to expand or the spell
is lost. When you cast this spell, choose one type of chromatic
or metallic dragon. While in this form, you gain the dragon trait.
You have hands in this battle form and can take manipulate
actions. You can Dismiss the spell.
You gain the following statistics and abilities regardless of
which battle form you choose:
•	 AC = 18 + your level. Ignore your armor’s check penalty
and Speed reduction.
•	 10 temporary Hit Points.
•	 Speed 40 feet, fly Speed 100 feet.
•	 Resistance 10 against the damage type of your breath
weapon (see below).
•	 Darkvision and imprecise scent 60 feet.
•	 One or more unarmed melee attacks specific to the battle
form you choose, which are the only attacks you can use.
You’re trained with them. Your attack modifier is +22,
and your damage bonus is +6. These attacks are Strength
based (for the purpose of the enfeebled condition, for
example). If your unarmed attack modifier is higher, you
can use it instead. See below for more on these attacks.
•	 Athletics modifier of +23, unless your own modifier
is higher.
•	 Breath Weapon [two-actions] (arcane, evocation) The shape,
damage, and damage type of your breath weapon
depend on your specific dragon form (see below). A
creature in the area attempts a basic save against
your spell DC. This is a Reflex save unless stated
otherwise in the special ability description for your
specific dragon form. Once activated, your breath
weapon can’t be used again for 1d4 rounds. Your
breath weapon has the trait corresponding to the
type of damage it deals.
You also gain specific abilities based on the type of dragon
you choose:
•	 Black swim Speed 60 feet; Melee [one-action] jaws, Damage 2d12
piercing plus 2d6 acid; Melee [one-action] claw (agile), Damage
Core Rulebook
332
