•	 Do anything else that is specified to happen at the
start of your turn.
The last step of starting your turn is always the same.
•	 Regain your 3 actions and 1 reaction. If you haven’t
spent your reaction from your last turn, you lose
it—you can’t “save” actions or reactions from one
turn to use during the next turn. If a condition
prevents you from being able to act, you don’t
regain any actions or your reaction. Some abilities
or conditions (such as quickened and slowed) can
change how many actions you regain and whether
you regain your reaction. If you lose actions and gain
additional actions (such as if you’re both quickened
and slowed), you choose which actions to lose.
Step 2: Act
You can use actions in any order you wish during your
turn, but you have to complete one action or activity before
beginning another; for example, you can’t use a single
action in the middle of performing a 2-action activity. What
actions you can use often depend on your class features,
skills, feats, and items, but there are default actions anyone
can use, described in Basic Actions below. Some effects
might prevent you from acting. If you can’t act, you can’t
use any actions, including reactions and free actions.
If you begin a 2-action or 3-action activity on your turn,
you must be able to complete it on your turn. You can’t,
for example, begin to High Jump using your final action
on one turn and then complete it as your first action on
your next turn.
Once you have spent all 3 of your actions, your turn
ends (as described in Step 3) and the next creature’s turn
begins. You can, however, use only some of your actions
and end your turn early. As soon as your turn ends, you
lose all your remaining actions, but not your reaction or
your ability to use free actions.
Step 3: End Your Turn
Once you’ve done all the things you want to do with the
actions you have available, you reach the end of your turn.
Take the following steps in any order you choose. Play
then proceeds to the next creature in the initiative order.
•	 End any effects that last until the end of your turn.
For example, spells with a sustained duration end at
the end of your turn unless you used the Sustain a
Spell action during your turn to extend them. Some
effects caused by enemies might also last through a
certain number of your turns, and you decrease the
remaining duration by 1 during this step, ending
the effect if its duration is reduced to 0.
•	 If you have a persistent damage condition, you
take the damage at this point. After you take
the damage, you can attempt the flat check to
end the persistent damage. You then attempt
any saving throws for ongoing afflictions. Many
other conditions change at the end of your turn,
such as the frightened condition decreasing in
severity. These take place after you’ve taken any
persistent damage, attempted flat checks to end
the persistent damage, and attempted saves against
any afflictions.
•	 You can use 1 free action or reaction with a trigger
of “Your turn ends” or something similar.
•	 Resolve anything else specified to happen at the end
of your turn.
Basic Actions
Basic actions represent common tasks like moving around,
attacking, and helping others. As such, every creature can
use basic actions except in some extreme circumstances,
and many of those actions are used very frequently. Most
notably, you’ll use Interact, Step, Stride, and Strike a great
deal. Many feats and other actions call upon you to use
one of these basic actions or modify them to produce
different effects. For example, a more complex action
might let you Stride up to double your Speed instead of
just up to your Speed, and a large number of activities
include a Strike.
Actions that are used less frequently but are still
available to most creatures are presented in Specialty
Basic Actions starting on page 472. These typically have
requirements that not all characters are likely to meet,
such as wielding a shield or having a burrow Speed.
In addition to the actions in these two sections, the
actions for spellcasting can be found on pages 302–305,
and the actions for using magic items appear on pages
531–534.
TRACKING INITIATIVE
The GM keeps track of the initiative order for an encounter.
It’s usually okay for the players to know this order, since
they’ll see who goes when and be aware of one another’s
results. However, the GM might want to conceal the
names of adversaries the PCs have yet to identify.
Once the encounter’s order is set, it’s usually not
necessary to track the original initiative numbers. The
GM can create a simple list, use a series of cards or other
indicators, or use a Pathfinder Combat Pad, which has
magnetic markers to allow for easily rearranging the order.
Changing the Initiative Order
Any method used to track the initiative order needs to be
flexible because the order can change. A creature can use the
Delay basic action to change its place in the order, in which
case you can erase it from the list or pull its marker aside
until it reenters the initiative order. When a creature gets
knocked out, its initiative order also changes (see Knocked
Out and Dying on page 459). Using the Ready basic action
doesn’t change a creature’s place in the initiative order,
though, because the designated action becomes a reaction.
469
9
PLAYING THE GAME
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Skills
Feats
Equipment
Spells
The Age of
Lost OMENS
Playing the
Game
Game
mastering
Crafting
& Treasure
Appendix
