TABLE 3–14: RANGER ADVANCEMENT
Your
Level
Class Features
1
Ancestry and background, initial proficiencies, hunt

prey, hunter’s edge, ranger feat
2
Ranger feat, skill feat
3
General feat, iron will, skill increase
4
Ranger feat, skill feat

5
Ability boosts, ancestry feat, skill increase,

trackless step, weapon expertise
6
Ranger feat, skill feat
7
Evasion, general feat, skill increase, vigilant senses,

weapon specialization
8
Ranger feat, skill feat
9
Ancestry feat, nature’s edge, ranger expertise,

skill increase
10
Ability boosts, ranger feat, skill feat
11
General feat, juggernaut, medium armor expertise,

skill increase, wild stride
12
Ranger feat, skill feat
13
Ancestry feat, skill increase, weapon mastery
14
Ranger feat, skill feat
15
Ability boosts, general feat, greater weapon

specialization, improved evasion, incredible senses,

skill increase
16
Ranger feat, skill feat
17
Ancestry feat, masterful hunter, skill increase
18
Ranger feat, skill feat
19
General feat, second skin, skill increase, swift prey
20
Ability boosts, ranger feat, skill feat
Class Features
You gain these abilities as a ranger. Abilities gained at
higher levels list the level at which you gain them next to
the features’ names.
Ancestry and Background
In addition to what you get from your class at 1st level,
you have the benefits of your selected ancestry and
background, as described in Chapter 2.
Initial Proficiencies
At 1st level, you gain a number of proficiencies that
represent your basic training. These proficiencies are
noted at the start of this class.
Hunt Prey
When you focus your attention on a single foe, you become
unstoppable in your pursuit. You gain the Hunt Prey action.
HUNT PREY [one-action]
CONCENTRATE
RANGER
You designate a single creature as your prey and focus your
attacks against that creature. You must be able to see or hear
the prey, or you must be tracking the prey during exploration.
You gain a +2 circumstance bonus to Perception checks
when you Seek your prey and a +2 circumstance bonus to
Survival checks when you Track your prey. You also ignore the
penalty for making ranged attacks within your second range
increment against the prey you’re hunting.
You can have only one creature designated as your prey
at a time. If you use Hunt Prey against a creature when you
already have a creature designated, the prior creature loses
the designation and the new prey gains the designation. Your
designation lasts until your next daily preparations.
Hunter’s Edge
You have trained for countless hours to become a more
skilled hunter and tracker, gaining an additional benefit
when you Hunt Prey depending on the focus of your
training. Choose a hunter’s edge.
Flurry: You have trained to unleash a devastating flurry
of attacks upon your prey. Your multiple attack penalty
for attacks against your hunted prey is –3 (–2 with an
agile weapon) on your second attack of the turn instead
of –5, and –6 (–4 with an agile weapon) on your third or
subsequent attack of the turn, instead of –10.
Precision: You have trained to aim for your prey’s weak
points. The first time you hit your hunted prey in a round,
you also deal 1d8 additional precision damage. (Precision
damage increases the damage you already deal, using the
same type, but is ineffective against creatures that lack vital
organs or weak points.) At 11th level, the extra damage
increases to 2d8 precision damage, and at 19th level, the
extra damage increases to 3d8 precision damage.
Outwit: You are talented at outwitting and evading
your prey. You gain a +2 circumstance bonus to Deception
checks, Intimidation checks, Stealth checks, and any checks
to Recall Knowledge about the prey, and a +1 circumstance
bonus to AC against your prey’s attacks.
Ranger Feats
At 1st level and every even-numbered level, you gain a ranger
class feat. Ranger feats are listed beginning on page 170.
Skill Feats
2nd
At 2nd level and every 2 levels thereafter, you gain a skill
feat. Skill feats appear in Chapter 5 and have the skill
trait. You must be trained or better in the corresponding
skill to select a skill feat.
General Feats
3rd
At 3rd level and every 4 levels thereafter, you gain a
general feat. General feats are listed in Chapter 5.
Iron Will
3rd
Your training has hardened your resolve. Your proficiency
rank for Will saves increases to expert.
Skill Increases
3rd
At 3rd level and every 2 levels thereafter, you gain a
Core Rulebook
168
