SKILL EXPLORATION ACTIVITIES
Chapter 4: Skills includes numerous additional exploration
activities, which are summarized here.
Borrow an Arcane Spell: You use Arcana to prepare a
spell from someone else’s spellbook (page 241).
Coerce: You use Intimidation to threaten a creature so
it does what you want (page 247).
Cover Tracks: You use Survival to obscure your
passing (page 252).
Decipher Writing: You use a suitable skill to understand
archaic, esoteric, or obscure texts (page 234).
Gather Information: You use Diplomacy to canvass the
area to learn about a specific individual or topic (page 246).
Identify Alchemy: You use Craft and alchemist’s tools
to identify an alchemical item (page 245).
Identify Magic: Using a variety of skills, you can learn
about a magic item, location, or ongoing effect (page 238).
Impersonate: You use Deception and usually a disguise
kit to create a disguise (page 245).
Learn a Spell: You use the skill corresponding to the
spell’s tradition to gain access to a new spell (page 238).
Make an Impression: You use Diplomacy to make a
good impression on someone (page 246).
Repair: With a repair kit and the Crafting skill, you fix
a damaged item (page 243).
Sense Direction: You use Survival to get a sense of where
you are or determine the cardinal directions (page 252).
Squeeze: Using Acrobatics, you squeeze though very
tight spaces (page 241).
Track: You use Survival to find and follow creatures’
tracks (page 252).
Treat Wounds: You use Medicine to treat a living
creature’s wounds (page 249).
HUSTLE
EXPLORATION
MOVE
You strain yourself to move at double your travel speed. You can
Hustle only for a number of minutes equal to your Constitution
modifier × 10 (minimum 10 minutes). If you are in a group that is
Hustling, use the lowest Constitution modifier among everyone
to determine how fast the group can Hustle together.
INVESTIGATE
CONCENTRATE
 EXPLORATION
You seek out information about your surroundings while traveling
at half speed. You use Recall Knowledge as a secret check to
discover clues among the various things you can see and engage
with as you journey along. You can use any skill that has a Recall
Knowledge action while Investigating, but the GM determines
whether the skill is relevant to the clues you could find.
REPEAT A SPELL
CONCENTRATE
 EXPLORATION
You repeatedly cast the same spell while moving at half speed.
Typically, this spell is a cantrip that you want to have in effect
in the event a combat breaks out, and it must be one you can
cast in 2 actions or fewer. In order to prevent fatigue due
to repeated casting, you’ll likely use this activity only when
something out of the ordinary occurs.
You can instead use this activity to continue Sustaining a
Spell or Activation with a sustained duration. Most such spells
or item effects can be sustained for 10 minutes, though some
specify they can be sustained for a different duration.
SCOUT
CONCENTRATE
 EXPLORATION
You scout ahead and behind the group to watch danger, moving
at half speed. At the start of the next encounter, every creature in
your party gains a +1 circumstance bonus to their initiative rolls.
SEARCH
CONCENTRATE
 EXPLORATION
You Seek meticulously for hidden doors, concealed hazards,
and so on. You can usually make an educated guess as to which
locations are best to check and move at half speed, but if you
want to be thorough and guarantee you checked everything, you
need to travel at a Speed of no more than 300 feet per minute, or
150 feet per minute to ensure you check everything before you
walk into it. You can always move more slowly while Searching
to cover the area more thoroughly, and the Expeditious Search
feat increases these maximum Speeds. If you come across a
secret door, item, or hazard while Searching, the GM will attempt
a free secret check to Seek to see if you notice the hidden object
or hazard. In locations with many objects to search, you have to
stop and spend significantly longer to search thoroughly.
Rest and Daily
Preparations
You perform at your best when you take enough time to
rest and prepare. Once every 24 hours, you can take a
period of rest (typically 8 hours), after which you regain
Hit Points equal to your Constitution modifier (minimum
1) times your level, and you might recover from or
improve certain conditions (page 453). Sleeping in armor
results in poor rest that leaves you fatigued. If you go
more than 16 hours without resting, you become fatigued
(you cannot recover from this until you rest at least 6
continuous hours).
After you rest, you make your daily preparations, which
takes around 1 hour. You can prepare only if you’ve rested,
and only once per day. Preparing includes the following:
•	 Spellcasters regain spell slots, and prepared
spellcasters choose spells to have available that day.
•	 Focus Points, other abilities that refresh during
your preparations, and abilities that can be used
only a certain number of times per day, including
magic item uses, are reset.
•	 You don armor and equip weapons and other gear.
•	 You invest up to 10 worn magic items to gain their
benefits for the day.
Core Rulebook
480
