Class Features
You gain these abilities as a champion. Abilities gained at
higher levels list the requisite levels next to their names.
Ancestry and Background
In addition to the abilities provided by your class at 1st
level, you have the benefits of your selected ancestry and
background, as described in Chapter 2.
Initial Proficiencies
At 1st level, you gain a number of proficiencies that
represent your basic training, noted at the start of this class.
Champion’s Code
You follow a code of conduct, beginning with tenets
shared by all champions of an alignment (such as good),
and continuing with tenets of your cause. Deities often add
additional strictures (for instance, Torag’s champions can’t
show mercy to enemies of their people, making it almost
impossible for them to follow the redeemer cause). Only rules
for good champions appear in this book. Tenets are listed
in order of importance, starting with the most important.
If a situation places two tenets in conflict, you aren’t in a
no-win situation; instead, follow the more important tenet.
For instance, as a paladin, if an evil king asked you if you’re
hiding refugees so he could execute them, you could lie
to him, since the tenet against lying is less important than
preventing harm to innocents. Trying to subvert your code
by creating a situation that forces a higher tenet to override
a lower tenet (for example, promising not to respect
authorities and then, to keep your word, disrespecting
authorities) is a violation of the champion code.
If you stray from your alignment or violate your code of
conduct, you lose your focus pool and divine ally until you
demonstrate your repentance by conducting an atone ritual
(page 409), but you keep any other champion abilities that
don’t require those class features. If your alignment shifts
but is still one allowed by your deity, your GM might let
you retrain your cause while still following the same deity.
The Tenets of Good
All champions of good alignment follow these tenets.
•	 You must never perform acts anathema to your
deity or willingly commit an evil act, such as
murder, torture, or the casting of an evil spell.
•	 You must never knowingly harm an innocent, or
allow immediate harm to one through inaction
when you know you could reasonably prevent it.
This tenet doesn’t force you to take action against
possible harm to innocents at an indefinite time in
the future, or to sacrifice your life to protect them.
Deity and Cause
Champions are divine servants of a deity. Choose a deity
to follow (pages 437–440); your alignment must be one
allowed for followers of your deity. Actions fundamentally
opposed to your deity’s ideals or alignment are anathema
to your faith. A few examples of acts that would be
considered anathema appear in each deity’s entry. You and
your GM determine whether other acts are anathema.
You have one of the following causes. Your cause must
match your alignment exactly. Your cause determines
your champion’s reaction, grants you a devotion spell
(page 107), and defines part of your champion’s code.
Paladin (Lawful Good)
You’re honorable, forthright, and committed to pushing
back the forces of cruelty. You gain the Retributive Strike
champion’s reaction and the lay on hands devotion spell.
After the tenets of good, add these tenets:
•	 You must act with honor, never taking advantage
of others, lying, or cheating.
•	 You must respect the lawful authority of legitimate
leadership wherever you go, and follow its laws.
Redeemer (Neutral Good)
You’re full of kindness and forgiveness. You gain the
Glimpse of Redemption champion’s reaction and the lay on
hands devotion spell. After the tenets of good, add these:
TABLE 3–7: CHAMPION ADVANCEMENT
Your
Level	 Class Features
1
Ancestry and background, initial proficiencies, champion’s

code, deity and cause, deific weapon, champion’s reaction,

devotion spells, champion feat, shield block
2
Champion feat, skill feat
3
Divine ally, general feat, skill increase
4
Champion feat, skill feat
5
Ability boosts, ancestry feat, skill increase,

weapon expertise
6
Champion feat, skill feat
7
Armor expertise, general feat, skill increase,

weapon specialization
8
Champion feat, skill feat
9
Ancestry feat, champion expertise, divine smite,

juggernaut, lightning reflexes, skill increase
10
Ability boosts, champion feat, skill feat
11
Alertness, divine will, exalt, general feat, skill increase
12
Champion feat, skill feat
13
Ancestry feat, armor mastery, skill increase,

weapon mastery
14
Champion feat, skill feat
15
Ability boosts, general feat, greater weapon

specialization, skill increase
16
Champion feat, skill feat
17
Ancestry feat, champion mastery, legendary armor,

skill increase
18
Champion feat, skill feat
19
General feat, hero’s defiance, skill increase
20
Ability boosts, champion feat, skill feat
Core Rulebook
106
