trap unerringly targets the true perpetrator or perpetrators
at any distance—even across planes. Effect The triggering
creature and up to five coconspirators instantly revert to
infants, losing all memories, class abilities, and other skills
acquired during their lives (DC 44 Fortitude negates).
Reversing this effect is nearly impossible, requiring
powerful magic such as wish.
ARMAGEDDON ORB
HAZARD 23
RARE
MAGICAL
TRAP
Stealth DC 10 or detect magic
Description A roiling red orb, forged from a drop of the god
Rovagug’s blood, rains fire from the sky when a specified
condition is met.
Disable Thievery DC 48 (legendary) to imbue thieves’ tools
with aspects representing Asmodeus and Sarenrae and use
them to drain away the orb’s power over 10 minutes; the
character attempting this check takes 5 fire damage each
round until the orb is depleted
Burn It All [reaction] (death, divine, evocation, fire); Trigger A special
condition set by the trap’s creator occurs; this is typically
the event of their death. Effect Fire rains from the sky in a
100-mile radius, dealing 10d6 fire damage to creatures and
objects in the area. Each creature or object can attempt a DC
46 basic Reflex save. Any creature reduced to 0 Hit Points
by this damage dies instantly. This is not enough damage to
completely burn away a forest or level an entire mountain
or city, but it typically kills most creatures in the area.
Complex Hazards
Complex hazards function similarly to monsters during
encounters, as they roll initiative and have actions of their
own, though these are usually automated in a routine.
SUMMONING RUNE 
HAZARD 1
COMPLEX
MAGICAL
TRAP
Stealth +7 (trained)
Description A cloud of invisible magical sensors in a 10-foot
radius surrounds an invisible wall or floor rune the size of the
creature to be summoned.
Disable Acrobatics DC 15 to approach without triggering the
trap followed by Thievery DC 17 (trained) to erase the rune, or
dispel magic (1st level; counteract DC 15) to counteract the rune
Summon Monster [reaction] (arcane, conjuration, summon; Trigger
A creature enters the cloud of magical sensors. Effect
This trap summons a specific level 1 creature, determined
when the trap is created. The creature rolls initiative and
remains for 2d6 rounds, after which the spell ends and
the creature disappears. The creature also disappears if
someone disables the trap before the duration expires. The
summoned creature can use 3 actions each round and can
use reactions, unlike most summoned creatures.
Reset The trap resets each day at dawn.
DROWNING PIT
HAZARD 3
COMPLEX
MECHANICAL
TRAP
Stealth +10 (trained); DC 22 (expert) to notice the water
spouts once the pit opens
Description A trapdoor covers a 10-foot-square pit that’s 30
feet deep and has 5 feet of water at the bottom. Four water
spouts in the walls connect to hidden water tanks. Each water
spout extends out of a different wall, 6 inches from the top
of the pit.
Disable Thievery DC 18 (trained) to seal each water spout,
Thievery DC 22 (trained) to open the trapdoor, or Athletics
DC 22 to Force Open the trapdoor
AC 19; Fort +8, Ref +5
Trapdoor Hardness 15, Trapdoor HP 60 (BT 30); Spout
Hardness 8, Spout HP 32 (BT 16); Immunities critical hits,
object immunities, precision damage
Pitfall [reaction] Trigger A creature walks onto the trapdoor. Effect
The triggering creature falls in and takes damage from the
fall, reduced by 5 feet for falling into the water (typically 12
bludgeoning damage). A creature can Grab an Edge to avoid
falling (page 472). The trapdoor then slams shut, and the
hazard rolls initiative.
Routine (4 actions) The trap loses 1 action each turn for each
disabled water spout. On each of the trap’s actions, a spout
pours water, increasing the depth of the water by 5 feet.
Once the pit is full of water, the pit stops using actions, but
creatures in the pit begin drowning (page 478).
Reset The trap can be reset if the door is manually reengaged
and the water tanks refilled; it can be reset without draining
the pit, but doing so renders it less effective.
QUICKSAND
HAZARD 3
COMPLEX
ENVIRONMENTAL
Stealth +12 (trained) (or –10 and no minimum proficiency if the
surface is disturbed)
Description A 15-foot-wide patch of water and sand attempts
to submerge creatures that step onto it.
Disable Survival DC 18 (trained) to disturb the surface
Submerge [free-action] Trigger A Huge or smaller creature walks onto
the quicksand. Effect The triggering creature sinks into the
quicksand up to its waist. The quicksand rolls initiative if it
hasn’t already.
Routine (1 action) On its initiative, the quicksand pulls down
each creature within it. A creature that was submerged up to
its waist becomes submerged up to its neck, and a creature
UPGRADED SUMMONING RUNES
You can make a summoning rune of nearly any level. It
summons a creature of a level equal to the trap’s level.
Use Table 10–5: DCs by Level on page 503 to determine
the Thievery DC and spell DC, using the trap’s level and
applying a hard adjustment (+2). The Stealth modifier for
the trap is equal to this number – 10. Stronger summoning
runes usually require expert proficiency or better in
Perception to find, and they might require a higher
proficiency rank in Thievery to disable.
Core Rulebook
526
