Advanced Maneuver Knockdown
KNOCKDOWN [one-action]
Requirements The animal companion’s last action was a
successful jaws Strike.
The wolf automatically knocks the target of its jaws Strike prone.
Specialized Animal Companions
Specialized animal companions are more intelligent and
engage in more complex behaviors. The first time an animal
gains a specialization, it gains the following: Its proficiency
rank for unarmed attacks increases to expert. Its proficiency
ranks for saving throws and Perception increase to master.
Increase its Dexterity modifier by 1 and its Intelligence
modifier by 2. Its unarmed attack damage increases from
two dice to three dice, and it increases its additional damage
with unarmed attacks from 2 to 4 or from 3 to 6.
Each specialization grants additional benefits. Most
animal companions can have only one specialization.
Ambusher
In your companion’s natural environment, it can use
a Sneak action even if it’s currently observed. It gains a
+2 circumstance bonus to initiative rolls using Stealth, its
proficiency rank in Stealth increases to expert (or master if
it was already an expert from its type), and its Dexterity
modifier increases by 1. Its proficiency rank for unarmored
defense increases to expert, or master if it’s nimble.
Bully
Your companion terrorizes foes with dominance displays
and pushes them around the battlefield. Its proficiency ranks
for Athletics and Intimidation increase to expert (or master
if it was already expert from its type), its Strength modifier
increases by 1, and its Charisma modifier increases by 3.
Daredevil
Your companion joins the fray with graceful leaps and dives.
It gains the deny advantage ability, so it isn’t flat-footed
to hidden, undetected, or flanking creatures unless such a
creature’s level is greater than yours. Its proficiency rank in
Acrobatics increases to master, and its Dexterity modifier
increases by 1. Its proficiency rank in unarmored defense
increases to expert, or master if it’s nimble.
Racer
Your companion races. It gains a +10-foot status bonus
to its Speed, swim Speed, or fly Speed (your choice). Its
proficiency in Fortitude saves increases to legendary, and
its Constitution modifier increases by 1.
Tracker
Your companion is an incredible tracker. It can move at full
Speed while following tracks. Its proficiency rank in Survival
increases to expert (or master if it was already an expert
from its type), and its Wisdom modifier increases by 1.
Wrecker
Your companion smashes things. Its unarmed attacks
ignore half an object’s Hardness. Its Athletics proficiency
increases to master, and its Strength modifier increases
by 1.
Familiars
Familiars are mystically bonded creatures tied to your
magic. Most familiars were originally animals, though
the ritual of becoming a familiar makes them something
more. You can choose a Tiny animal you want as your
familiar, such as a bat, cat, raven, or snake. Some familiars
are different, usually described in the ability that granted
you a familiar; for example, a druid’s leshy familiar is a
Tiny plant instead of an animal, formed from a minor
nature spirit.
Familiars have the minion trait (page 634), so during
an encounter, they gain 2 actions in a round if you spend
an action to command them. If your familiar dies, you
can spend a week of downtime to replace it at no cost.
You can have only one familiar at a time.
Modifiers and AC
Your familiar’s save modifiers and AC are equal to
yours before applying circumstance or status bonuses or
penalties. Its Perception, Acrobatics, and Stealth modifiers
are equal to your level plus your spellcasting ability
modifier (Charisma if you don’t have one, unless otherwise
specified). If it attempts an attack roll or other skill check, it
uses your level as its modifier. It doesn’t have or use its own
ability modifiers and can never benefit from item bonuses.
Hit Points
Your familiar has 5 Hit Points for each of your levels.
217
3
CLASSES
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Skills
Feats
Equipment
Spells
The Age of
Lost OMENS
Playing the
Game
Game
mastering
Crafting
& Treasure
Appendix
