need to roll more often because you’re in a tense situation.
The GM determines how often you must attempt this check.
You attempt your Survival check when you start Tracking,
once every hour you continue tracking, and any time
something significant changes in the trail. The GM determines
the DCs for such checks, depending on the freshness of the
trail, the weather, and the type of ground.
Success You find the trail or continue to follow the one you’re
already following.
Failure You lose the trail but can try again after a 1-hour delay.
Critical Failure You lose the trail and can’t try again for 24 hours.
Sample Track Tasks
Untrained the path of a large army following a road
Trained relatively fresh tracks of a rampaging bear
through the plains
Expert a nimble panther’s tracks through a jungle, tracks
after the rain
Master tracks after a winter snow, tracks of a mouse or
smaller creature, tracks left on surfaces that can’t hold
prints like bare rock
Legendary old tracks through a windy desert’s sands,
tracks after a major blizzard or hurricane
Thievery (Dex)
You are trained in a particular set of skills favored by
thieves and miscreants.
PALM AN OBJECT [one-action]
MANIPULATE
Palming a small, unattended object without being noticed
requires you to roll a single Thievery check against the
Perception DCs of all creatures who are currently observing
you. You take the object whether or not you successfully
conceal that you did so. You can typically only Palm Objects
of negligible Bulk, though the GM might determine otherwise
depending on the situation.
Success The creature does not notice you Palming the Object.
Failure The creature notices you Palming the Object, and the
GM determines the creature’s response.
STEAL [one-action]
MANIPULATE
You try to take a small object from another creature without
being noticed. Typically, you can Steal only an object of
negligible Bulk, and you automatically fail if the creature who
has the object is in combat or on guard.
Attempt a Thievery check to determine if you successfully
Steal the object. The DC to Steal is usually the Perception DC
of the creature wearing the object. This assumes the object
is worn but not closely guarded (like a loosely carried pouch
filled with coins, or an object within such a pouch). If the object
is in a pocket or similarly protected, you take a –5 penalty to
your Thievery check. The GM might increase the DC of your
check if the nature of the object makes it harder to steal (such
as a very small item in a large pack, or a sheet of parchment
mixed in with other documents).
You might also need to compare your Thievery check result
against the Perception DCs of observers other than the person
wearing the object. The GM may increase the Perception DCs
of these observers if they’re distracted.
Success You steal the item without the bearer noticing, or an
observer doesn’t see you take or attempt to take the item.
Failure The item’s bearer notices your attempt before you can
take the object, or an observer sees you take or attempt
to take the item. The GM determines the response of any
creature that notices your theft.
Thievery Trained Actions
DISABLE A DEVICE [two-actions]
MANIPULATE
Requirements Some devices require you to use thieves’ tools
(page 291) when disabling them.
This action allows you to disarm a trap or another complex
device. Often, a device requires numerous successes before
becoming disabled, depending on its construction and
complexity. Thieves’ tools are helpful and sometimes even
required to Disable a Device, as determined by the GM, and
sometimes a device requires a higher proficiency rank in
Thievery to disable it.
Your Thievery check result determines how much progress
you make.
Critical Success You disable the device, or you achieve two
successes toward disabling a complex device. You leave no
trace of your tampering, and you can rearm the device later,
if that type of device can be rearmed.
Success You disable the device, or you achieve one success
toward disabling a complex device.
Critical Failure You trigger the device.
PICK A LOCK [two-actions]
MANIPULATE
Requirements You have thieves’ tools (page 291).
Opening a lock without a key is very similar to Disabling a
Device, but the DC of the check is determined by the complexity
and construction of the lock you are attempting to pick (locks
and their DCs are found on page 290). Locks of higher qualities
might require multiple successes to unlock, since otherwise even
an unskilled burglar could easily crack the lock by attempting
the check until they rolled a natural 20. If you lack the proper
tools, the GM might let you used improvised picks, which are
treated as shoddy tools, depending on the specifics of the lock.
Critical Success You unlock the lock, or you achieve two
successes toward opening a complex lock. You leave no
trace of your tampering.
Success You open the lock, or you achieve one success toward
opening a complex lock.
Critical Failure You break your tools. Fixing them requires using
Crafting to Repair them or else swapping in replacement
picks (costing 3 sp, or 3 gp for infiltrator thieves’ tools).
4
Skills
253
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Skills
Feats
Equipment
Spells
The Age of
Lost OMENS
Playing the
Game
Game
mastering
Crafting
& Treasure
Appendix
