SAMPLE MONK
or 10 feet on a critical success. If you push the target into an
obstacle, it takes bludgeoning damage equal to 6 plus your
Strength modifier, or 8 plus your Strength modifier if you have
legendary proficiency in Athletics.
MEDITATIVE FOCUS
FEAT 12
MONK
Prerequisites ki spells
Your meditation is so effective that you can achieve a
deep focus. If you have spent at least 2 Focus Points since
the last time you Refocused, you recover 2 Focus Points when
you Refocus instead of 1.
STANCE SAVANT [reaction]
FEAT 12
MONK
Trigger You roll initiative.
You enter a stance without a thought. Use an action that has
the stance trait.
14TH LEVEL
IRONBLOOD SURGE [one-action]
FEAT 14
MONK
Prerequisites Ironblood Stance
Requirements You are in Ironblood Stance.
You steel yourself, preparing to resist oncoming attacks and
using your muscles to absorb the impact. You gain the benefits
of your iron sweep’s parry trait (a +1 circumstance bonus to
AC until the start of your next turn) and your resistance from
Ironblood Stance increases to your Strength modifier (if it’s
higher) for the same duration.
MOUNTAIN QUAKE [one-action]
FEAT 14
MONK
Prerequisites Mountain Stronghold
Requirements You are in Mountain Stance.
You stomp, shaking the earth beneath you. Creatures on the
ground within a 20-foot emanation take damage equal to your
Strength modifier (minimum 0), which they can resist with a
basic Fortitude save. On a failure, they also fall prone. After
you use this action, you can’t use it again for 1d4 rounds.
Special If you have this feat, the Dexterity modifier cap to
your AC while using Mountain Stance increases from +1 to +2.
TANGLED FOREST RAKE [one-action]
FEAT 14
MONK
Prerequisites Tangled Forest Stance
Requirements You are in Tangled Forest Stance.
You reposition foes with raking attacks. Make a lashing branch
Strike. If you hit and deal damage, you force the target to move
5 feet into a space within your reach. This follows the forced
movement rules found on page 475.
TIMELESS BODY
FEAT 14
MONK
You cease aging. In addition, you gain a +2 status bonus to
CRANE MONK
Striving for grace in all things, you mimic the fluid
movements of the crane. Your strikes are quick as
the wind and your mind clear as a placid pool.
ABILITY SCORES
Prioritize Dexterity for finesse attacks and high defenses.
A good Wisdom lets you perceive dangers and act
quickly, and Constitution improves your hardiness.
SKILLS
Acrobatics, Nature, Religion, Stealth
STARTING FEAT
Crane Stance
HIGHER-LEVEL FEATS
Dancing Leaf (2nd), Flying Kick (4th), Crane Flutter (6th),
Winding Flow (10th), Stance Savant (12th), Enduring
Quickness (20th)
3
Core Rulebook
164
Core Rulebook
164
