also include embracing a genre beyond traditional high
fantasy. The themes you choose for your campaign also
suggest storyline elements you might use.
A storyline’s themes usually relate to the backstories,
motivations, and flaws of the player characters and villains.
For example, if you’ve chosen revenge as one of the themes
of your game, you might introduce a villain whose quest
for revenge tears his life apart and causes tragic harm
to those around him. If one of the player characters is a
chaotic good believer in liberty and freedom, you might
engage that character by pitting the group against slavers.
Or, you might choose a theme of love, leading to nonplayer
characters involved in doomed romances, seeking to regain
lovers they have lost, or courting the player characters.
Using similar locations and related creatures helps you
form connections between disparate adventures. The
players feel like their characters are becoming experts
negotiating with giants, navigating seaways, battling
devils, exploring the planes, or dealing with whatever
the recurring elements are. For example, you might have
the players explore a frozen tundra early on, then later
travel to an icy plane filled with more difficult challenges
that can be overcome using knowledge they’ve previously
developed. Likewise, hobgoblin soldiers may be tough
enemies for your group at low levels, but as the PCs attain
higher levels and the hobgoblins become mere minions of
another creature, the players feel a sense of progression.
Pathfinder is a fantasy adventure game, but you can shift
your campaign to include elements of other fictional genres.
You might want to infuse your game a with a sense of horror,
reduce the amount of magic and use slow advancement
(page 509) to make it a tale of sword and sorcery, or turn
magic into technology for a steampunk setting.
A WELCOMING ENVIRONMENT
The role of Game Master comes with the responsibility of
ensuring you and the rest of the players have a rewarding,
fun time during the game. Games can deal with difficult
subjects and have stressful moments, but fundamentally
Pathfinder is a leisure activity. It can remain so only if the
players follow the social contract and respect one another.
Players with physical or mental disabilities might find
themselves more challenged than abled players. Work
with your players to ensure they have the resources
and support they need. Additionally, be on the lookout
for behavior that’s inappropriate, whether intentional
or inadvertent, and pay careful attention to players’
body language during the game. If you notice a player
becoming uncomfortable, you are empowered to pause
the game, take it in a new direction, privately check in
with your players during or after the session, or take any
other action you think is appropriate.
If a player tells you they’re uncomfortable with
something in the game, whether it’s content you’ve
presented as the GM or another player’s or PC’s actions,
listen carefully to that player and take steps to ensure
they can once again have fun during your game. If you’re
preparing prewritten material and you find a character
or a situation inappropriate, you are fully empowered
to change any details as you see fit. You also have the
authority (and responsibility) to ask players to change
their behavior—or even leave the table—if what they’re
doing is unacceptable or makes others feel uncomfortable.
It’s never appropriate to make the person who is
uncomfortable responsible for resolving a problem. It’s
okay if mistakes happen. What’s important is how you
respond and move forward.
Gaming is for everyone. Never let those acting in bad
faith undermine your game or exclude other players. Your
efforts are part of the long-term process of making games
and game culture welcoming to all. Working together, we
can build a community where players of all identities and
experiences feel safe.
TOOLS FOR RESPONSIBLE PLAY
Consent and comfort are important topics for roleplaying
games, and many designers have created techniques to
help facilitate responsible play. Some methods you can use
are lines and veils, developed by Ron Edwards, and the
X-Card, developed by John Stavropoulos.
Lines and Veils
The terms “line” and “veil” can give your table a common
vocabulary for the concepts described in this section. A
line is a hard limit to the actions players might take, such
as “We’re drawing a line at torture.” The group agrees not
to cross a line and omits that content from the game.
A veil indicates something that shouldn’t be described
in detail. The scene fades to black for a veil, or the group
moves on to discuss a different topic, though whatever the
veil is drawn across still happens. For example, you might
say, “We’ll draw a veil across the scene as those characters
head into the bedroom.”
You might come up with some lines and veils in advance,
but then find more as play continues.
The X-Card
Draw an “X” on a card, and you’ve got an X-Card. Place it on
the table at the start of the session and describe its use to
the players: any player can silently reject content they find
upsetting by tapping the X-Card; whoever’s speaking then
rewinds a bit and continues on, excising the objectionable
content. As with setting the basic guidelines for your
campaign, there are no questions asked, no judgment, and
no argument when someone invokes the X-Card. You can,
however, ask for clarification if you need it, such as “How far
back should I rewind this?” Some groups instead make an
X with their hands, say “Let’s X that out,” or use some other
method. Either way, follow up with the player privately,
after the game, to see if the guidelines need to be revised.
You can find more details at tinyurl.com/x-card-rpg.
GAME MASTERING
485
10
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Skills
Feats
Equipment
Spells
The Age of
Lost OMENS
Playing the
Game
Game
mastering
Crafting
& Treasure
Appendix
