Success The target is sickened 1.
Failure The target is afflicted with goblin pox at stage 1.
Critical Failure The target is afflicted with goblin pox at stage 2.
Goblin Pox (disease); Level 1. Goblins and goblin dogs are
immune. Stage 1 sickened 1 (1 round); Stage 2 sickened 1
and slowed 1 (1 round); Stage 3 sickened 1 and the creature
can’t reduce its sickened value below 1 (1 day)
GREASE
SPELL 1
CONJURATION
Traditions arcane, primal
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal
Range 30 feet; Area 4 contiguous 5-foot squares or
Targets 1 object of 1 Bulk or less
Duration 1 minute
You conjure grease, with effects based on choosing area or target.
•	 Area All solid ground in the area is covered with
grease. Each creature standing on the greasy surface
must succeed at a Reflex save or an Acrobatics check
against your spell DC or fall prone. Creatures using
an action to move onto the greasy surface during the
spell’s duration must attempt either a Reflex save or an
Acrobatics check to Balance. A creature that Steps or
Crawls doesn’t have to attempt a check or save.
•	 Target If you cast the spell on an unattended object,
anyone trying to pick up the object must succeed
at an Acrobatics check or Reflex save against your
spell DC to do so. If you target an attended object,
the creature that has the object must attempt an
Acrobatics check or Reflex save. On a failure, the
holder or wielder takes a –2 circumstance penalty to
all checks that involve using the object; on a critical
failure, the holder or wielder releases the item. The
object lands in an adjacent square of the GM’s choice.
If you cast this spell on a worn object, the wearer
gains a +2 circumstance bonus to Fortitude saves
against attempts to grapple them.
GRIM TENDRILS
SPELL 1
NECROMANCY
NEGATIVE
Traditions arcane, occult
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal
Area 30-foot line
Saving Throw Fortitude
Tendrils of darkness curl out from your fingertips and
race through the air. You deal 2d4 negative damage and 1
persistent bleed damage to living creatures in the line. Each
living creature in the line must attempt a Fortitude save.
Critical Success The creature is unaffected.
Success The creature takes half the negative damage and no
persistent bleed damage.
Failure The creature takes full damage.
Critical Failure The creature takes double negative damage
and double persistent bleed damage.
Heightened (+1) The negative damage increases by 2d4, and
the persistent bleed damage increases by 1.
GUIDANCE
CANTRIP 1
CANTRIP
DIVINATION
Traditions divine, occult, primal
Cast [one-action] verbal
Range 30 feet; Targets 1 creature
Duration until the start of your next turn
You ask for divine guidance, granting the target a +1 status
bonus to one attack roll, Perception check, saving throw, or
skill check the target attempts before the duration ends. The
target chooses which roll to use the bonus on before rolling.
If the target uses the bonus, the spell ends. Either way, the
target is then temporarily immune for 1 hour.
GUST OF WIND
SPELL 1
AIR
EVOCATION
Traditions arcane, primal
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal
Area 60-foot line
Duration until the start of your next turn
A violent wind issues forth from your palm, blowing from the
point where you are when you cast the spell to the line’s opposite
end. The wind extinguishes small non-magical fires, disperses
fog and mist, blows objects of light Bulk or less around, and
pushes larger objects. Large or smaller creatures in the area
must attempt a Fortitude save. Large or smaller creatures that
later move into the gust must attempt the save on entering.
Critical Success The creature is unaffected.
Success The creature can’t move against the wind.
Failure The creature is knocked prone. If it was flying, it
suffers the effects of critical failure instead.
Critical Failure The creature is pushed 30 feet in the wind’s
direction, knocked prone, and takes 2d6 bludgeoning damage.
HALLUCINATION
SPELL 5
ILLUSION
INCAPACITATION
MENTAL
Traditions arcane, occult
Cast [two-actions] material, somatic
Range 30 feet; Targets 1 creature
Duration 1 hour
The target consistently detects one thing as another, can’t
detect something that’s there, or detects something that’s not
there, though it doesn’t alter their beliefs. You choose which
of these effects applies, and you determine the specifics of the
hallucination. For example, you could make the target see all elves
as humans, be unable to detect the presence of their brother, see
their beloved pocket watch on their person even when it isn’t, or
see a tower in the center of town.
The target can attempt an initial Will save, with effects below.
They also receive a Will save to disbelieve the hallucination every
time they Seek or directly interact with the hallucination. For
example, the target could attempt to disbelieve the hallucination
each time they interacted with an elf, bumped into their brother
accidentally, tried to check their pocket watch, or studied
the tower. The target can attempt to disbelieve with a large
circumstance bonus in situations determined by the GM, such as
if the target attempted to climb the nonexistent tower.
Core Rulebook
342
