You become living flame, giving you fire immunity,
resistance 10 to precision damage, and weakness 5 to cold
and to water. Any creature that touches you or damages
you with an unarmed attack or non-reach melee weapon
takes 3d6 fire damage.
Your unarmed attacks deal 1d4 additional fire damage, and
your fire spells deal one additional die of fire damage (of the
same damage die the spell uses). You can cast produce flame
as an innate spell; the casting is reduced from 2 actions to 1.
In fire form, you have a fly Speed of 40 feet and don’t need
to breathe.
Heightened (9th) Creatures touching you take 4d6 fire damage
instead of 3d6, your unarmed attacks deal 2d4 additional fire
damage, and you have a fly Speed of 60 feet.
FINGER OF DEATH
SPELL 7
DEATH
NECROMANCY
Traditions divine, primal
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal
Range 30 feet; Targets 1 living creature
Saving Throw basic Fortitude
You point your finger toward the target and speak a word
of slaying. You deal 70 negative damage to the target. If the
damage from finger of death reduces the target to 0 Hit Points,
the target dies instantly.
Heightened (+1) The damage increases by 10.
FIRE SEEDS
SPELL 6
EVOCATION
FIRE
PLANT
Traditions primal
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal
Saving Throw basic Reflex; Duration 1 minute
Four acorns grow in your hand, their shells streaked with
pulsing red and orange patterns. You or anyone else who has
one of the acorns can toss it up to 30 feet with an Interact
action. It explodes in a 5-foot burst, dealing 4d6 fire damage.
The save uses your spell DC, even if someone else throws
the acorn.
Flames continue to burn on the ground in the burst for
1  minute, dealing 2d6 fire damage to any creature that
enters the flames or ends its turn within them. A creature
can take damage from the continuing flames only once per
round, even if it’s in overlapping areas of fire created by
different acorns.
When the spell ends, any remaining acorns rot and turn to
ordinary soil.
Heightened (8th) The burst’s damage increases to 5d6, and
the continuing flames damage increases to 3d6.
Heightened (9th) The burst’s damage increases to 6d6, and
the continuing flames damage increases to 3d6.
FIRE SHIELD
SPELL 4
EVOCATION
FIRE
Traditions arcane, primal
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal
Duration 1 minute
You wreathe yourself in ghostly flames, gaining cold
resistance 5. Additionally, adjacent creatures that hit you
with a melee attack, as well as creatures that touch you or
hit you with an unarmed attack, take 2d6 fire damage each
time they do.
Heightened (+2) The cold resistance increases by 5, and the
fire damage increases by 1d6.
FIREBALL
SPELL 3
EVOCATION
FIRE
Traditions arcane, primal
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal
Range 500 feet; Area 20-foot burst
Saving Throw basic Reflex
A roaring blast of fire appears at a spot you designate, dealing
6d6 fire damage.
Heightened (+1) The damage increases by 2d6.
FLAME STRIKE
SPELL 5
EVOCATION
FIRE
Traditions divine
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal
Range 120 feet; Area 10-foot radius, 40-foot-tall cylinder
Saving Throw basic Reflex
You call a rain of divine fire that plummets down from above,
dealing 8d6 fire damage. Because the flame is infused with
divine energy, creatures in the area apply only half their usual
fire resistance. Creatures that are immune to fire, instead of
gaining the usual benefit of immunity, treat the results of their
saving throws as one degree of success better.
Heightened (+1) The damage increases by 2d6.
FLAMING SPHERE
SPELL 2
EVOCATION
FIRE
Traditions arcane, primal
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal
Range 30 feet; Area 1 5-foot square
Saving Throw Reflex; Duration sustained up to 1 minute
You create a sphere of flame in a square within range. The
sphere must be supported by a solid surface, such as a stone
floor. The sphere deals 3d6 fire damage to each creature in
the square where it first appears; each creature must attempt
a basic Reflex save. On subsequent rounds, you can Sustain
this Spell, leaving the sphere in its square or rolling it to
another square within range and dealing 3d6 fire damage;
each creature in its square must attempt a basic Reflex save.
Creatures that succeed at their save take no damage
(instead of half).
Heightened (+1) The damage increases by 1d6.
FLEET STEP
SPELL 1
TRANSMUTATION
Traditions arcane, primal
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal
Duration 1 minute
You gain a +30-foot status bonus to your Speed.
Core Rulebook
338
