•	 One or more unarmed melee attacks specific to the
battle form you choose, which are the only attacks
you can use. You’re trained with them. Your attack
modifier is +16, and your damage bonus is +9. These
attacks are Strength based (for the purpose of the
enfeebled condition, for example). If your unarmed
attack modifier is higher, you can use it instead.
•	 Athletics modifier of +18, unless your own modifier
is higher.
You also gain specific abilities based on the form you choose:
•	 Ankylosaurus Speed 25 feet; Melee [one-action] tail (backswing,
reach 10 feet), Damage 2d6 bludgeoning; Melee [one-action]
foot, Damage 2d6 bludgeoning.
•	 Brontosaurus Speed 25 feet; Melee [one-action] tail (reach
15 feet), Damage 2d6 bludgeoning; Melee [one-action] foot,
Damage 2d8 bludgeoning.
•	 Deinonychus Speed 40 feet; Melee [one-action] talon (agile),
Damage 2d4 piercing plus 1 persistent bleed; Melee [one-action]
jaws, Damage 1d10 piercing.
•	 Stegosaurus Speed 30 feet; Melee [one-action] tail (reach 10
feet), Damage 2d8 piercing.
•	 Triceratops Speed 30 feet; Melee [one-action] horn, Damage
2d8 piercing, plus 1d6 persistent bleed on a critical hit;
Melee [one-action] foot, Damage 2d6 bludgeoning.
•	 Tyrannosaurus Speed 30 feet; Melee [one-action] jaws (deadly,
reach 10 feet), Damage 1d12 piercing; Melee [one-action] tail
(reach 10 feet), Damage 1d10 bludgeoning.
Heightened (5th) Your battle form is Huge and your attacks have
15-foot reach, or 20-foot reach if they started with 15-foot reach.
You instead gain 20 temporary HP, an attack modifier of +18, a
damage bonus of +6, double the damage dice, and Athletics +21.
Heightened (7th) Your battle form is Gargantuan and your
attacks have 20-foot reach, or 25-foot reach if they started
with 15-foot reach. You instead gain AC = 21 + your level, 25
temporary HP, an attack modifier of +25, a damage bonus of
+15, double the damage dice, and Athletics +25.
DISAPPEARANCE
SPELL 8
ILLUSION
Traditions arcane, occult
Cast [two-actions] material, somatic
Range touch; Targets 1 creature
Duration 10 minutes
You shroud a creature from others’ senses. The target becomes
undetected, not just to sight but to all senses, allowing the target
to count as invisible no matter what precise and imprecise senses
an observer might have. It’s still possible for a creature to find
the target by Seeking, looking for disturbed dust, hearing gaps in
the sound spectrum, or finding some other way to discover the
presence of an otherwise-undetectable creature.
DISCERN LIES
SPELL 4
UNCOMMON
DIVINATION
MENTAL
REVELATION
Traditions arcane, divine, occult
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal
Duration 10 minutes
Falsehoods ring in your ears like discordant notes. You gain
a +4 status bonus to Perception checks when someone Lies.
DISCERN LOCATION
SPELL 8
UNCOMMON
DETECTION
DIVINATION
Traditions arcane, divine, occult
Cast 10 minutes (material, somatic, verbal)
Range unlimited; Targets 1 creature or object
You learn the name of the target’s exact location (including
the building, community, and country) and plane of existence.
You can target a creature only if you’ve seen it in person,
have one of its significant belongings, or have a piece of its
body. To target an object, you must have touched it or have
a fragment of it. Discern location automatically overcomes
protections against detection and divination of lower level than
this spell, even if they would normally have a chance to block it.
DISINTEGRATE
SPELL 6
EVOCATION
Traditions arcane
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal
Range 120 feet; Targets 1 creature or unattended object
Saving Throw Fortitude
You fire a green ray at your target. Make a spell attack. You
deal 12d10 damage, and the target must attempt a basic
Fortitude save. On a critical hit, treat the save result as one
degree worse. A creature reduced to 0 HP is reduced to fine
powder; its gear remains.
An object you hit is destroyed (no save), regardless of
Hardness, unless it’s an artifact or similarly hard to destroy.
A single casting can destroy no more than a 10-foot cube of
matter. This automatically destroys any force construct, such
as a wall of force.
Heightened (+1) The damage increases by 2d10.
DISJUNCTION
SPELL 9
UNCOMMON
ABJURATION
Traditions arcane, primal
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal
Range 120 feet; Targets 1 magic item
Crackling energy disjoins the target. You attempt to counteract
it (page 458). If you succeed, it’s deactivated for 1 week. On a
critical success, it’s destroyed. If it’s an artifact or similar item,
you automatically fail.
DISPEL MAGIC
SPELL 2
ABJURATION
Traditions arcane, divine, occult, primal
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal
Range 120 feet; Targets 1 spell effect or unattended magic item
You unravel the magic behind a spell or effect. Attempt a
counteract check against the target (page 458). If you succeed
against a spell effect, you counteract it. If you succeed against a
magic item, the item becomes a mundane item of its type for 10
minutes. This doesn’t change the item’s non-magical properties.
If the target is an artifact or similar item, you automatically fail.
Core Rulebook
330
