SAMPLE SORCERER
Bloodline Spells initial: glutton’s jaws; advanced: swamp of
sloth; greater: Abyssal wrath
Blood Magic The corruption of sin weakens a target’s defenses
or makes you more imposing. Either a target takes a –1 status
penalty to AC for 1 round, or you gain a +1 status bonus to
Intimidation checks for 1 round.
Diabolic
Devils are evil with a silver tongue, and one of your
ancestors dallied in darkness or made an infernal pact.
Spell List divine (page 309)
Bloodline Skills Deception, Religion
Granted Spells cantrip: produce flame; 1st: charm; 2nd: flaming
sphere; 3rd: enthrall; 4th: suggestion; 5th: crushing despair; 6th:
true seeing; 7th: divine decree; 8th: divine aura; 9th: meteor swarm
Bloodline Spells initial: diabolic edict; advanced: embrace the
pit; greater: hellfire plume
Blood Magic Hellfire scorches a target or fills your tongue with
lies. Either a target takes 1 fire damage per spell level (if the spell
already deals initial fire damage, combine this with the spell’s
initial damage before determining weaknesses and resistances),
or you gain a +1 status bonus to Deception checks for 1 round.
Draconic
The blood of dragons flows through your veins. These
beasts are both fearsome in combat and skilled at magic.
Spell List arcane (page 307)
Bloodline Skills Arcana, Intimidation
Granted Spells cantrip: shield; 1st: true strike; 2nd: resist
energy; 3rd: haste; 4th: spell immunity; 5th: chromatic wall;
6th: dragon form; 7th: mask of terror; 8th: prismatic wall; 9th:
overwhelming presence
Bloodline Spells initial: dragon claws; advanced: dragon
breath; greater: dragon wings
Blood Magic Draconic scales grow briefly on you or one target,
granting a +1 status bonus to AC for 1 round.
Dragon Type
At 1st level, choose the type of dragon that influenced your
bloodline. You can’t change your dragon type later. This
affects how some of your bloodline spells function. The
good metallic dragons and their damage types are brass
(fire), bronze (electricity), copper (acid), gold (fire), and
silver (cold). The evil chromatic dragons and their damage
types are black (acid), blue (electricity), green (poison), red
(fire), and white (cold).
Elemental
A genie ancestor or some other elemental influence has
imbued your blood with primal fury, affecting how the
bloodline spells and granted spells marked with an asterisk
(*), as well as your blood magic, function.
Spell List primal (page 314)
Bloodline Skills Intimidation, Nature
Granted Spells cantrip: produce flame*; 1st: burning hands*;
2nd: resist energy; 3rd: fireball*; 4th: freedom of movement;
FEY-TOUCHED
Your blood ties you to the magic of the First
World and the otherworldly fey. Like them, you’re
capricious, charming, and hard to pin down.
ABILITY SCORES
Improve your Charisma first. Good Dexterity, Constitution,
and Wisdom provide solid defenses.
SKILLS
Deception, Diplomacy, Nature, Stealth
BLOODLINE
Fey
HIGHER-LEVEL FEATS
Reach Spell (1st), Primal Evolution (4th), Advanced Bloodline
(6th), Greater Bloodline (10th), Bloodline Focus (12th)
SPELL REPERTOIRE
1st charm, fleet step, summon fey; Cantrips dancing lights,
daze, detect magic, ghost sound, tanglefoot
Core Rulebook
196
