Search
With a successful Perception check while Searching, a
character notices the presence or absence of something
unusual in the area, but it doesn’t provide a comprehensive
catalog of everything there. Instead, it gives a jumping-off
point for closer inspection or an encounter. For instance,
if an area has both a DC 30 secret door and a DC 25 trap,
and a Searching character got a 28 on their Perception
check, you would tell the player that their character
noticed a trap in the area, and you’d give a rough idea
of the trap’s location and nature. The party needs to
examine the area more to learn specifics about the trap,
and someone would need to Search again to get another
chance to find the secret door.
If an area contains many objects or something that will
take a while to search (such as a cabinet full of papers),
Searching would reveal the cabinet, but the PCs would have
to examine it more thoroughly to check the papers. This
usually requires the party to stop for a complete search.
You roll a secret Perception check for a Searching
character to detect any secrets they pass that’s in a
place that stands out (such as near a door or a turn in
a corridor), but not one that’s in a more inconspicuous
place (like a random point in a long hallway) unless they
are searching particularly slowly and meticulously.
SETTING A PARTY ORDER
In exploration mode, it often matters which characters
are in the front or back of the party formation. Let the
players decide among themselves where in the group their
characters are while exploring. This order can determine
who gets attacked first when enemies or traps threaten
from various directions. It’s up to you to determine the
specifics of who gets targeted based on the situation.
When you come out of exploration mode, the group
usually remains in the same general formation. Decide
the PCs’ exact positions, with their input, if you’re
moving to a grid (as usually happens at the start of a
combat encounter). If they come out of exploration mode
on their own terms, they can move around as they see fit.
For example, if they detect a trap and the rogue starts
attempting to disarm it, the other characters can move to
whatever locations they think are safe.
ADVERSE TERRAIN AND WEATHER
Exploration gets slower when the party faces dense
jungles, deep snow, sandstorms, extreme heat, or similar
difficult conditions. You decide how much these factors
impact the characters’ progress. The specific effects of
certain types of terrain and weather are described starting
on page 512.
GAME MASTERING
497
10
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Skills
Feats
Equipment
Spells
The Age of
Lost OMENS
Playing the
Game
Game
mastering
Crafting
& Treasure
Appendix
