You manifest an aura that prevents creatures from approaching
you. When casting the spell, you can make the area any radius
you choose, up to 40 feet. A creature must attempt a Will save
if it’s within the area when you cast the spell or as soon as it
enters the area while the spell is in effect. Once a creature has
attempted the save, it uses the same result for that casting
of repulsion. Any restrictions on a creature’s movement apply
only if it voluntarily moves toward you. For example, if you
move closer to a creature, it doesn’t then need to move away.
Critical Success The creature’s movement is not restricted.
Success The creature treats each square in the area as difficult
terrain when moving closer to you.
Failure The creature can’t move closer to you within the area.
RESILIENT SPHERE
SPELL 4
ABJURATION
FORCE
Traditions arcane, occult
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal
Range 30 feet; Targets 1 Large or smaller creature
Duration 1 minute
You create an immobile sphere of force to either trap or protect
the target, blocking anything that would pass through the
sphere. The sphere has AC 5, Hardness 10, and 40 Hit Points.
It’s immune to critical hits and precision damage. Disintegrate
destroys the sphere instantly. If the target is unwilling, the
effects of the sphere depend on the target’s Reflex save.
Critical Success The target disrupts the sphere’s integrity,
causing it to collapse entirely.
Success The sphere functions normally but has only 10 Hit
Points instead of 40.
Failure The sphere has its normal effect.
RESIST ENERGY
SPELL 2
ABJURATION
Traditions arcane, divine, occult, primal
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal
Range touch; Targets 1 creature
Duration 10 minutes
A shield of elemental energy protects a creature against one
type of energy damage. Choose acid, cold, electricity, fire, or
sonic damage. The target and its gear gain resistance 5 against
the damage type you chose.
Heightened (4th) The resistance increases to 10, and you can
target up to two creatures.
Heightened (7th) The resistance increases to 15, and you can
target up to five creatures.
RESPLENDENT MANSION
SPELL 9
CONJURATION
Traditions arcane, occult
Cast 1 minute (material, somatic, verbal)
Range 500 feet
Duration until the next time you make your daily preparations
You conjure a towering mansion up to four stories tall and
up to 300 feet on a side. While Casting the Spell, you hold
an image of the mansion and its desired appearance in
your mind. The mansion can contain as many or as few rooms
as you desire, and it is decorated as you imagine it. You can
imagine a purpose for each room of the mansion, and the proper
accouterments appear within. Any furniture or other mundane
fixtures function normally for anyone inside the mansion, but
they cease to exist if taken beyond its walls. No fixture created
with this spell can create magical effects, but magical devices
brought into the mansion function normally.
Your mansion contains the same types and quantities
of foodstuffs and servants as created by the magnificent
mansion spell.
Each of the mansion’s exterior doorways and windows
are protected by alarm spells. You choose whether each
alarm is audible or mental as you Cast the Spell, and each
has a different sound (for an audible alarm) or sensation (for
a mental one), allowing you to instantly determine which
portal has been used.
RESTORATION
SPELL 2
HEALING
NECROMANCY
Traditions divine, occult, primal
Cast 1 minute (somatic, verbal)
Range touch; Targets 1 creature
Restorative magic counters the effects of toxins or conditions
that prevent a creature from functioning at its best. When you
cast restoration, choose to either reduce a condition or lessen the
effect of a toxin. A creature can benefit from only one restoration
spell each day, and it can’t benefit from restoration more than
once to reduce the stage of the same exposure to a given toxin.
•	 Reduce a Condition Reduce the value of the target’s
clumsy, enfeebled, or stupefied condition by 2. You can
instead reduce two of the listed conditions by 1 each.
•	 Lessen a Toxin Reduce the stage of one toxin the
target suffers from by one stage. This can’t reduce the
stage below stage 1 or cure the affliction.
Heightened (4th) Add drained to the list of conditions you can
reduce. When you lessen a toxin, reduce the stage by two. You
also gain a third option that allows you to reduce the target’s
doomed value by 1. You can’t use this to reduce a permanent
doomed condition.
Heightened (6th) As the 4th-level restoration, but you can
reduce a permanent doomed condition if you add a spellcasting
action and a material component while Casting the Spell, during
which you provide 100 gp worth of diamond dust as a cost.
RESTORE SENSES
SPELL 2
HEALING
NECROMANCY
Traditions divine, occult, primal
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal
Range touch; Targets 1 creature
You attempt to counteract a single effect imposing the blinded
or deafened conditions on the target, restoring its vision
or hearing. This can counteract both temporary magic and
permanent consequences of magic, but it doesn’t cure someone
who does not have the sense due to some natural state or
effect, such as from birth or from a non-magical wound or toxin.
Core Rulebook
364
