OVERWHELMING PRESENCE
SPELL 9
AUDITORY
ENCHANTMENT
INCAPACITATION
MENTAL
VISUAL
Traditions divine, occult
Cast [two‑actions] somatic, verbal
Area 40-foot burst; Targets any number of creatures
Saving Throw Will; Duration until full tribute is paid
You surround yourself with supernatural splendor, appearing
to be a god or similarly majestic being. You choose the aspects
of your new majestic appearance. This causes the targets to
pay tribute to you by bowing or using some other action in
keeping with your appearance. The number of times a target
must do this depends on the result of their Will save.
Critical Success The target is unaffected.
Success The target must pay tribute twice.
Failure The target must pay tribute six times.
Critical Failure As failure, and the target must spend all its
actions paying tribute if possible.
Paying tribute is a manipulate action or move action, as chosen
by the creature paying tribute. A creature under this effect
must pay tribute to you at least once on each of its turns if
possible. While affected by this spell, a creature is fascinated
by you and can’t use hostile actions against you. The target is
then temporarily immune for 1 minute.
PARALYZE
SPELL 3
ENCHANTMENT
INCAPACITATION
MENTAL
Traditions arcane, occult
Cast [two‑actions] somatic, verbal
Range 30 feet; Targets 1 creature
Saving Throw Will; Duration varies
You block the target’s motor impulses before they can leave
its mind, threatening to freeze the target in place. The target
must attempt a Will save.
Critical Success The target is unaffected.
Success The target is stunned 1.
Failure The target is paralyzed for 1 round.
Critical Failure The target is paralyzed for 4 rounds. At the
end of each of its turns, it can attempt a new Will save to
reduce the remaining duration by 1 round, or end it entirely
on a critical success.
Heightened (7th) You can target up to 10 creatures.
PARANOIA
SPELL 2
ILLUSION
MENTAL
Traditions occult
Cast [two‑actions] somatic, verbal
Range 30 feet; Targets 1 creature
Saving Throw Will; Duration 1 minute
You cause the target to see all other creatures as dire threats.
The target is stricken by intense paranoia toward all creatures
around it and must attempt a Will save.
Critical Success The target is unaffected.
Success The target believes everyone it sees is a potential
threat. It becomes unfriendly to all creatures to which it
wasn’t already hostile, even those that were previously
allies. It treats no one as an ally. The spell ends after 1 round.
Failure As success, but the effect lasts 1 minute.
Critical Failure As failure, except the target believes that
everyone it sees is a mortal enemy. It uses its reactions
and free actions against everyone, regardless of whether
they were previously its allies, as determined by the GM. It
otherwise acts as rationally as it normally does and likely
prefers to attack creatures that are actively attacking or
hindering it over those leaving it alone.
Heightened (6th) You can target up to 5 creatures.
PASS WITHOUT TRACE
SPELL 1
ABJURATION
Traditions primal
Cast [two‑actions] somatic, verbal
Duration 1 hour
You obscure the tracks you leave behind and make it harder
for others to find you. The DC of checks to Track you gains a
+4 status bonus or is equal to your spell DC, whichever results
in a higher DC. You can benefit from only one pass without
trace spell at a time.
Heightened (2nd) The duration increases to 8 hours.
Heightened (4th) The duration increases to 8 hours. The spell
has a range of 20 feet and an area of a 20-foot-emanation,
affecting up to 10 creatures of your choice within that area.
PASSWALL
SPELL 5
UNCOMMON
CONJURATION
EARTH
Traditions arcane, primal
Cast [two‑actions] somatic, verbal
Range touch; Area 5-foot-wide, 10-foot-tall, 10-foot-deep
section of wooden, plaster, or stone wall
Duration 1 hour
You create a visible tunnel through the wall in the chosen area,
replacing the area with empty space. If the wall is thicker than
10 feet, the tunnel ends 10 feet in. Even a small layer of metal
in the wall prevents this spell from functioning. This spell
doesn’t reduce the integrity of the structure. When the spell
ends, anyone inside the tunnel is shunted to the nearest exit.
Heightened (7th) The tunnel can be up to 20 feet deep. The
areas of the wall that contain your tunnel’s entrance appear
completely normal (unless viewed with true seeing or a similar
effect), despite the tunnel’s existence. The tunnel’s entrance
functions as a solid wall, but you can specify a password or a
trigger (page 305), allowing creatures to enter the tunnel freely.
PEST FORM
SPELL 1
POLYMORPH
TRANSMUTATION
Traditions arcane, primal
Cast [two‑actions] somatic, verbal
Duration 10 minutes
You transform into a the battle form of a Tiny animal, such as
a cat, insect, lizard, or rat. You can decide the specific type of
animal (such as a rat or praying mantis), but this has no effect
on the form’s Size or statistics. While in this form, you gain the
animal trait. You can Dismiss the spell.
You gain the following statistics and abilities:
Core Rulebook
356
