Far to the north of Absalom sprawl the Broken Lands,
nations and wildernesses united in their shared stature
as fractured regions—places where life itself has taken
a blow and the struggle to survive is simply part of
daily reality. Not all of the Broken Lands are constantly
fraught with peril, but regardless of where one might
settle down in these parts’ tumultuous times, danger is
rarely far from home.
In some cases, the breaks are political. In the northeast,
the nation of Brevoy has hung on the edge of civil war
for many years, as the long-running feud between the
traditional noble houses of Issia and the mercenary
swordlords of Rostland maintain an ongoing state of
tension that may be nearing a breaking point. But in the
case of the oft-contested River Kingdoms, these political
breaks have reached something of a draw, for here it is
said that anyone might become the ruler of a nation—if
they have the tenacity to seize the reins of rule.
Elsewhere in the Broken Lands, the fractures are more
spiritual. Razmiran, for example, is ruled by the living
god Razmir, who demands the worship of all who dwell
within his nation’s borders and brooks no competition
of faith. His priests act as police throughout the land,
brutally enforcing their deity’s laws. To the north in
Mendev, these spiritual breaks are less obvious; this
land struggles to reclaim its heritage in the wake of a
century of occupation by a crusading force that, until a
few years ago, stood as a bulwark against the demons
who ruled the lands across the river to the west.
These western lands are truly broken, in a physical
sense, for in the chaotic times at the dawn of the Age
of Lost Omens, powerful agents of the demon lord
Deskari tore a hole in reality. The resulting wound in the
landscape allowed legions of demons to pour through
and devastate the lands once known as Sarkoris.
Although heroes of the Fifth Crusade recently defeated
Deskari and closed the rift, these lands are still known
as the Worldwound. The main threat has been quelled,
but demons still inhabit the region, and the blighted
landscape struggles to return to normal.
Perhaps the strangest of the Broken Lands lie near
its heart. The rugged hills and plains of Numeria are
home to many Kellid clans. However, in the distant
past, the crash of a scientifically advanced starship
brought strange aliens, mechanical monstrosities, and
technological wonders to Golarion, but its fiery arrival
left large reaches of the surrounding land blighted and
blasted even to this day.
Broken Lands
THE AGE OF LOST OMENS
421
8
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Skills
Feats
Equipment
Spells
The Age of
Lost OMENS
Playing the
Game
Game
mastering
Crafting
& Treasure
Appendix
