usually results in a critical success and natural 1 usually
results in a critical failure. However, if you were going up
against a very high DC, you might get only a success with
a natural 20, or even a failure if 20 plus your total modifier
is 10 or more below the DC. Likewise, if your modifier for
a statistic is so high that adding it to a 1 from your d20 roll
exceeds the DC by 10 or more, you can succeed even if you
roll a natural 1! If a feat, magic item, spell, or other effect
does not list a critical success or critical failure, treat is as
an ordinary success or failure instead.
Some other abilities can change the degree of success for
rolls you get. When resolving the effect of an ability that
changes your degree of success, always apply the adjustment
from a natural 20 or natural 1 before anything else.
Specific Checks
While most checks follow these basic rules, it’s useful to
know about a few specific types of checks, how they’re
used, and how they differ from one another.
Attack Rolls
When you use a Strike action or any other attack action,
you attempt a check called an attack roll. Attack rolls take
a variety of forms and are often highly variable based on
the weapon you are using for the attack, but there are three
main types: melee attack rolls, ranged attack rolls, and spell
attack rolls. Spell attack rolls work a little bit differently, so
they are explained separately on the next page.
Melee attack rolls use Strength as their ability modifier by
default. If you’re using a weapon or attack with the finesse
trait, then you can use your Dexterity modifier instead.
Melee attack roll result = d20 roll + Strength
modifier (or optionally Dexterity modifier for
a finesse weapon) + proficiency bonus + other
bonuses + penalties
Ranged attack rolls use Dexterity as their ability modifier.
Ranged attack roll result = d20 roll + Dexterity
modifier + proficiency bonus + other bonuses +
penalties
When attacking with a weapon, whether melee or ranged,
you add your proficiency bonus for the weapon you’re using.
Your class determines your proficiency rank for various
weapons. Sometimes, you’ll have different proficiency ranks
for different weapons. For instance, at 5th level, a fighter
gains the weapon mastery class feature, which grants master
proficiency with the simple and martial weapons of one
weapon group, expert proficiency with advanced weapons
of that group and other simple and martial weapons, and
trained proficiency in all other advanced weapons.
The bonuses you might apply to attack rolls can come
from a variety of sources. Circumstance bonuses can come
from the aid of an ally or a beneficial situation. Status
bonuses are typically granted by spells and other magical
aids. The item bonus to attack rolls comes from magic
weapons—notably, a weapon’s potency rune (page 580).
Penalties to attack rolls come from situations and effects
as well. Circumstance penalties come from risky tactics
or detrimental circumstances, status penalties come from
spells and magic working against you, and item penalties
occur when you use a shoddy item (page 273). When
making attack rolls, two main types of untyped penalties
are likely to apply. The first is the multiple attack penalty,
and the second is the range penalty. The first applies
anytime you make more than one attack action during the
course of your turn, and the other applies only with ranged
or thrown weapons. Both are described below.
Multiple Attack Penalty
The more attacks you make beyond your first in a single
turn, the less accurate you become, represented by the
multiple attack penalty. The second time you use an
attack action during your turn, you take a –5 penalty to
your attack roll. The third time you attack, and on any
subsequent attacks, you take a –10 penalty to your attack
roll. Every check that has the attack trait counts toward
your multiple attack penalty, including Strikes, spell attack
rolls, certain skill actions like Shove, and many others.
Some weapons and abilities reduce multiple attack
penalties, such as agile weapons, which reduce these
penalties to –4 on the second attack or –8 on further attacks.
	Attack
Multiple Attack Penalty
Agile
	First
None
None
	Second
–5
–4
	Third or subsequent
–10
–8
Always calculate your multiple attack penalty for the
weapon you’re using on that attack. For example, let’s say
you’re wielding a longsword in one hand and a shortsword
(which has the agile trait) in your other hand, and you are
going to make three Strikes with these weapons during the
course of your turn. The first Strike you make during your
turn has no penalty, no matter what weapon you are using.
The second Strike will take either a –5 penalty if you use
the longsword or a –4 penalty if you use the shortsword.
Just like the second attack, the penalty for your third attack
is based on which weapon you’re using for that particular
Strike. It would be a –10 penalty with the longsword and
a –8 penalty with the shortsword, no matter what weapon
you used for your previous Strikes.
The multiple attack penalty applies only during your
turn, so you don’t have to keep track of it if you can
perform an Attack of Opportunity or a similar reaction
that lets you make a Strike on someone else’s turn.
Range Penalty
Ranged and thrown weapons each have a listed range
Core Rulebook
446
