Armor Class and saving throws against the target enemy’s
attacks, spells, and other effects.
Heightened (6th) The status bonus increases to +2.
FORESIGHT
SPELL 9
DIVINATION
MENTAL
PREDICTION
Traditions arcane, divine, occult
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal
Range touch; Targets 1 creature
Duration 1 hour
You gain a sixth sense that warns you of danger that might
befall the target of the spell. If you choose a creature other
than yourself as the target, you create a psychic link through
which you can inform the target of danger. This link is a mental
effect. Due to the amount of information this spell requires
you to process, you can’t have more than one foresight spell
in effect at a time. Casting foresight again ends the previous
foresight. While foresight is in effect, the target gains a +2
status bonus to initiative rolls and isn’t flat-footed against
undetected creatures or when flanked. In addition, you gain
the following reaction.
Foresight [reaction] Trigger The target of foresight defends against
a hostile creature or other danger. Effect If the hostile
creature or danger forces the target to roll dice (a saving
throw, for example), the target rolls twice and uses the
higher result, and this spell gains the fortune trait. But if the
hostile creature or danger is rolling against the target (an
attack roll or skill check, for example), that hostile creature
or danger rolls twice and uses the lower result, and this
spell gains the misfortune trait.
FREEDOM OF MOVEMENT
SPELL 4
ABJURATION
Traditions arcane, divine, primal
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal
Range touch; Targets 1 creature touched
Duration 10 minutes
You repel effects that would hinder a creature or slow its
movement. While under this spell’s effect, the target ignores
effects that would give them a circumstance penalty to
Speed. When they attempt to Escape an effect that has them
immobilized, grabbed, or restrained, they automatically
succeed unless the effect is magical and of a higher level
than the freedom of movement spell.
GASEOUS FORM
SPELL 4
POLYMORPH
TRANSMUTATION
Traditions arcane, occult, primal
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal
Range touch; Targets 1 willing creature
Duration 5 minutes
The target transforms into a vaporous state. In this state,
the target is amorphous and loses any item bonus to AC.
It gains resistance 8 to physical damage and is immune to
precision damage. It can’t cast spells, activate items, or use
actions that have the attack or manipulate trait. It gains a fly
Speed of 10 feet and can slip through tiny cracks. The target
can Dismiss the spell.
GATE
SPELL 10
UNCOMMON
CONJURATION
TELEPORTATION
Traditions arcane, divine, occult
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal
Range 120 feet
Duration sustained up to 1 minute
You tear open a rift to another plane, creating a portal that
creatures can travel through in either direction. This portal
is vertical and circular, with a radius of 40 feet. The portal
appears at a location of your choice on the destination plane,
assuming you have a clear idea of both the destination’s
location on the plane and what the destination looks like. If
you attempt to create a gate into or out of the realm of a deity
or another powerful being, that being can prevent the gate
from forming.
GENTLE REPOSE
SPELL 2
NECROMANCY
Traditions arcane, divine, occult, primal
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal
Range touch; Targets 1 corpse
Duration until the next time you make your daily preparations
The targeted corpse doesn’t decay, nor can it be transformed
into an undead. If the corpse is subject to a spell that requires
the corpse to have died within a certain amount of time (for
example, raise dead), do not count the duration of gentle
repose against that time. This spell also prevents ordinary
bugs and pests (such as maggots) from consuming the body.
Heightened (5th) The spell’s duration is unlimited, but the
spell takes one more action to cast and requires a material
component and a cost (embalming fluid worth 6 gp).
GHOST SOUND
CANTRIP 1
AUDITORY
CANTRIP
ILLUSION
Traditions arcane, occult
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal
Range 30 feet
Duration sustained
You create an auditory illusion of simple sounds that has a
maximum volume equal to four normal humans shouting.
The sounds emanate from a square you designate within
range. You can’t create intelligible words or other intricate
sounds (such as music).
Heightened (3rd) The range increases to 60 feet.
Heightened (5th) The range increases to 120 feet.
GHOSTLY WEAPON
SPELL 3
TRANSMUTATION
Traditions arcane, occult
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal
Range touch; Targets 1 non-magical weapon that is either
unattended or wielded by you or a willing ally
Duration 5 minutes
Core Rulebook
340
