Violent winds and a powerful downdraft fill the area, forming
a cyclone. All flying creatures in the area descend 40 feet. The
entire area is greater difficult terrain for Flying creatures, and
difficult terrain for creatures on the ground or Climbing. Any
creature that ends its turn Flying within the area descends 20
feet. Any creature pushed into a surface by this spell’s winds
takes bludgeoning damage as though it had fallen.
The squares at the outside vertical edges of the cylinder
prevent creatures from leaving. These squares are greater
difficult terrain, and a creature attempting to push through
must succeed at an Athletics check or Acrobatics check to
Maneuver in Flight against your spell DC to get through. A
creature that fails ends its current action but can try again.
PURIFY FOOD AND DRINK
SPELL 1
NECROMANCY
Traditions divine, primal
Cast [two‑actions] somatic, verbal
Range touch; Targets 1 cubic foot of contaminated food or water
You remove toxins and contaminations from food and drink,
making them safe to consume. This spell doesn’t prevent
future contamination, natural decay, or spoilage. One cubic
foot of liquid is roughly 8 gallons.
PURPLE WORM STING
SPELL 6
NECROMANCY
POISON
Traditions arcane, primal
Cast [two‑actions] somatic, verbal
Range touch; Targets 1 creature
Saving Throw Fortitude
You replicate the attack of a deadly purple worm. You deal
6d6 piercing damage to the touched creature and afflict
it with purple worm venom. The target must attempt a
Fortitude save.
Critical Success The target is unaffected.
Success The target takes 3d6 poison damage.
Failure The target is afflicted with purple worm venom at stage 1.
Critical Failure The target is afflicted with purple worm venom
at stage 2.
Purple Worm Venom (poison); Level 11; Maximum Duration 6
rounds. Stage 1 3d6 poison damage and enfeebled 2 (1 round);
Stage 2 4d6 poison damage and enfeebled 2 (1 round); Stage
3 6d6 poison damage and enfeebled 2 (1 round).
RAISE DEAD
SPELL 6
UNCOMMON
HEALING
NECROMANCY
Traditions divine
Cast 10 minutes (material, somatic, verbal); Cost diamonds
worth a total value of the target’s level (minimum 1) × 200 gp
Range 10 feet; Targets 1 dead creature of 13th level or lower
You attempt to call forth the dead creature’s soul, requiring the
creature’s body to be present and relatively intact. The creature
must have died within the past 3 days. If Pharasma has decided
that the creature’s time has come (at the GM’s discretion), or if
the creature doesn’t wish to return to life, this spell automatically
fails, but the diamonds aren’t consumed in the casting.
If the spell is successful, the creature returns to life with 1 Hit
Point, no spells prepared or spell slots available, no points in any
pools or any other daily resources, and still with any long-term
debilitations of the old body. The time spent in the Boneyard
leaves the target temporarily debilitated, making it clumsy 2,
drained 2, and enfeebled 2 for 1 week; these conditions can’t be
removed or reduced by any means until the week has passed.
The creature is also permanently changed by its time in the
afterlife, such as a slight personality shift, a streak of white in
the hair, or a strange new birthmark.
Heightened (7th) The maximum level of the target increases to
15. The cost increases to the target’s level (minimum 1) × 400 gp.
Heightened (8th) The maximum level the target increases to 17.
The cost increases to the target’s level (minimum 1) × 800 gp.
Heightened (9th) The maximum level of the target increases
to 19. The cost increases to the target’s level (minimum 1) ×
1,600 gp.
Heightened (10th) The maximum level the target increases
to 21. The cost increases to the target’s level (minimum 1) ×
3,200 gp.
RAY OF ENFEEBLEMENT
SPELL 1
ATTACK
NECROMANCY
Traditions arcane, divine, occult
Cast [two‑actions] somatic, verbal
Range 30 feet; Targets 1 creature
Saving Throw Fortitude; Duration 1 minute
A ray with the power to sap a foe’s strength flashes from your
hand. Attempt a ranged spell attack against the target. If you
succeed, that creature attempts a Fortitude save in order to
determine the spell’s effect. If you critically succeed on your
attack roll, use the outcome for one degree of success worse
than the result of its save.
Critical Success The target is unaffected.
Success The target becomes enfeebled 1.
Failure The target becomes enfeebled 2.
Critical Failure The target becomes enfeebled 3.
RAY OF FROST
CANTRIP 1
ATTACK
CANTRIP
COLD
EVOCATION
Traditions arcane, primal
Cast [two‑actions] somatic, verbal
Range 120 feet; Targets 1 creature
You blast an icy ray. Make a spell attack roll. The ray deals
cold damage equal to 1d4 + your spellcasting ability modifier.
Critical Success The target takes double damage and takes a
–10-foot status penalty to its Speeds for 1 round.
Success The target takes normal damage.
Heightened (+1) The damage increases by 1d4.
READ AURA
CANTRIP 1
CANTRIP
DETECTION
DIVINATION
Traditions arcane, divine, occult, primal
Cast 1 minute (somatic, verbal)
Range 30 feet; Targets 1 object
You focus on the target object, opening your mind to perceive
Core Rulebook
362
