Core Rulebook
638
This product is compliant with the Open Game License (OGL) and is suitable for use with the Pathfinder
Roleplaying Game (Second Edition).
Product Identity: The following items are hereby identified as Product Identity, as defined in the Open Game
License version 1.0a, Section 1(e), and are not Open Game Content: All trademarks, registered trademarks,
proper nouns (characters, deities, locations, etc., as well as all adjectives, names, titles, and descriptive terms
derived from proper nouns), Chapter 8 (with the exception of domains), artworks, characters, dialogue, locations,
organizations, plots, storylines, and trade dress. (Elements that have previously been designated as Open Game
Content, or are exclusively derived from previous Open Game Content, or that are in the public domain are not
included in this declaration.)
External Tools: Lines and veils were originally published in Sex & Sorcery, by Ron Edwards, © 2003, Adept
Press. The X-Card by John Stavropoulos (http://tinyurl.com/x-card-rpg) is published under a Creative Commons
Attribution-ShareAlike 3.0 Unported (CC BY-SA 3.0) License. They are used here by permission, and are not Open
Game Content released under the Open Game License.
Open Game Content: Except for material designated as Product Identity or External Tools (see above), the game
mechanics of this Paizo game product are Open Game Content, as defined in the Open Game License version
1.0a, Section 1(d). No portion of this work other than the material designated as Open Game Content may be
reproduced in any form without written permission.
Pathfinder Core Rulebook (Second Edition) © 2019, Paizo Inc. All Rights Reserved. Paizo, Paizo Inc., the Paizo golem
logo, Pathfinder, the Pathfinder logo, Pathfinder Society, and Starfinder are registered trademarks of Paizo Inc.;
Pathfinder Adventure Card Game, Pathfinder Adventure Card Society, Pathfinder Adventure Path, Pathfinder
Adventures, Pathfinder Cards, Pathfinder Combat Pad, Pathfinder Flip-Mat, Pathfinder Flip-Tiles, Pathfinder
Roleplaying Game, Pathfinder World Guide, the Pathfinder P logo, and Starfinder Society are trademarks of Paizo Inc.
Printed in China.
OPEN GAME LICENSE Version 1.0a
The following text is the property of Wizards of the Coast, Inc. and is Copyright 2000 Wizards of the
Coast, Inc. (“Wizards”). All Rights Reserved.
1. Definitions: (a) “Contributors” means the copyright and/or trademark owners who have
contributed Open Game Content; (b) “Derivative Material” means copyrighted material including
derivative works and translations (including into other computer languages), potation, modification,
correction, addition, extension, upgrade, improvement, compilation, abridgment or other form in
which an existing work may be recast, transformed or adapted; (c) “Distribute” means to reproduce,
license, rent, lease, sell, broadcast, publicly display, transmit or otherwise distribute; (d) “Open
Game Content” means the game mechanic and includes the methods, procedures, processes and
routines to the extent such content does not embody the Product Identity and is an enhancement
over the prior art and any additional content clearly identified as Open Game Content by the
Contributor, and means any work covered by this License, including translations and derivative
works under copyright law, but specifically excludes Product Identity. (e) “Product Identity” means
product and product line names, logos and identifying marks including trade dress; artifacts,
creatures, characters, stories, storylines, plots, thematic elements, dialogue, incidents, language,
artwork, symbols, designs, depictions, likenesses, formats, poses, concepts, themes and graphic,
photographic and other visual or audio representations; names and descriptions of characters,
spells, enchantments, personalities, teams, personas, likenesses and special abilities; places,
locations, environments, creatures, equipment, magical or supernatural abilities or effects, logos,
symbols, or graphic designs; and any other trademark or registered trademark clearly identified
as Product identity by the owner of the Product Identity, and which specifically excludes the Open
Game Content; (f) “Trademark” means the logos, names, mark, sign, motto, designs that are used
by a Contributor to identify itself or its products or the associated products contributed to the
Open Game License by the Contributor (g) “Use”, “Used” or “Using” means to use, Distribute, copy,
edit, format, modify, translate and otherwise create Derivative Material of Open Game Content.
(h) “You” or “Your” means the licensee in terms of this agreement.
2. The License: This License applies to any Open Game Content that contains a notice indicating that
the Open Game Content may only be Used under and in terms of this License. You must affix such a
notice to any Open Game Content that you Use. No terms may be added to or subtracted from this
License except as described by the License itself. No other terms or conditions may be applied to any
Open Game Content distributed using this License.
3. Offer and Acceptance: By Using the Open Game Content You indicate Your acceptance of the
terms of this License.
4. Grant and Consideration: In consideration for agreeing to use this License, the Contributors grant
You a perpetual, worldwide, royalty-free, non-exclusive license with the exact terms of this License
to Use, the Open Game Content.
5. Representation of Authority to Contribute: If You are contributing original material as Open Game
Content, You represent that Your Contributions are Your original creation and/or You have sufficient
rights to grant the rights conveyed by this License.
6. Notice of License Copyright: You must update the COPYRIGHT NOTICE portion of this License to
include the exact text of the COPYRIGHT NOTICE of any Open Game Content You are copying, modifying
or distributing, and You must add the title, the copyright date, and the copyright holder’s name to the
COPYRIGHT NOTICE of any original Open Game Content you Distribute.
7. Use of Product Identity: You agree not to Use any Product Identity, including as an indication as
to compatibility, except as expressly licensed in another, independent Agreement with the owner of
each element of that Product Identity. You agree not to indicate compatibility or co-adaptability with
any Trademark or Registered Trademark in conjunction with a work containing Open Game Content
except as expressly licensed in another, independent Agreement with the owner of such Trademark or
Registered Trademark. The use of any Product Identity in Open Game Content does not constitute a
challenge to the ownership of that Product Identity. The owner of any Product Identity used in Open
Game Content shall retain all rights, title and interest in and to that Product Identity.
8. Identification: If you distribute Open Game Content You must clearly indicate which portions of
the work that you are distributing are Open Game Content.
9. Updating the License: Wizards or its designated Agents may publish updated versions of this
License. You may use any authorized version of this License to copy, modify and distribute any Open
Game Content originally distributed under any version of this License.
10. Copy of this License: You MUST include a copy of this License with every copy of the Open
Game Content You distribute.
11. Use of Contributor Credits: You may not market or advertise the Open Game Content using the
name of any Contributor unless You have written permission from the Contributor to do so.
12. Inability to Comply: If it is impossible for You to comply with any of the terms of this License
with respect to some or all of the Open Game Content due to statute, judicial order, or governmental
regulation then You may not Use any Open Game Material so affected.
13. Termination: This License will terminate automatically if You fail to comply with all terms herein
and fail to cure such breach within 30 days of becoming aware of the breach. All sublicenses shall
survive the termination of this License.
14. Reformation: If any provision of this License is held to be unenforceable, such provision shall be
reformed only to the extent necessary to make it enforceable.
15. COPYRIGHT NOTICE
Open Game License v 1.0a © 2000, Wizards of the Coast, Inc.
System Reference Document © 2000, Wizards of the Coast, Inc.; Authors: Jonathan Tweet, Monte
Cook, and Skip Williams, based on material by E. Gary Gygax and Dave Arneson.
Pathfinder Core Rulebook (Second Edition) © 2019, Paizo Inc.; Designers: Logan Bonner, Jason Bulmahn,
Stephen Radney-MacFarland, and Mark Seifter.
untrained (proficiency rank) The lowest proficiency rank (+0 bonus). 10, 13, 444
usage An indication of how an item must be worn, held, or otherwise used. 535
vague sense A sense that can detect an unnoticed creature but not determine its
position, such as a human’s sense of smell. 465
verbal (spell component) 303
versatile (weapon trait) 283
virulent (trait) Afflictions with the virulent trait are harder to remove. You must
succeed at two consecutive saves to reduce a virulent affliction’s stage by 1. A
critical success reduces a virulent affliction’s stage by only 1 instead of by 2.
visual (trait) A visual effect can affect only creatures that can see it. This applies only
to visible parts of the effect, as determined by the GM.
volley (weapon trait) 283
wall 306, 515
wand (trait) A wand contains a single spell which you can cast once per day. 597–598
watches 499–500
water (trait) Effects with the water trait either manipulate or conjure water. Those
that manipulate water have no effect in an area without water. Creatures with
this trait consist primarily of water or have a magical connection to the element.
weakness Increases damage you take of a certain type. 453
wealth A character’s wealth by level. 508–511
weapon 278–286
	 magical and special weapons 599–602
	 runes 580–585
	 wielding 272
weather 497, 517–518
welcoming environment 8, 485–486
Will A saving throw used to resist effects targeting the mind and personality. Will
modifier = Wis modifier + proficiency bonus + other bonuses + penalties. 13, 448–449
Wisdom (Wis) This ability score measures your awareness and intuition. 19
wizard (class) 202–213
	 arcane spell list 307–309
	 multiclass archetype 231
	 school spells 406–407
wizard (trait)  This indicates abilities from the wizard class.
wounded (condition) You’ve returned from the brink of death but remain at risk. 623
XP (Experience Points) See also Experience Points. 8, 507–508
PAIZO INC.
Creative Directors • James Jacobs, Robert G. McCreary, and Sarah E. Robinson
Director of Game Design • Jason Bulmahn
Managing Developers • Adam Daigle and Amanda Hamon
Organized Play Lead Developer • John Compton
Developers • Eleanor Ferron, Jason Keeley, Luis Loza, Ron Lundeen, Joe Pasini,
Patrick Renie, Michael Sayre, Chris S. Sims, and Linda Zayas-Palmer
Starfinder Design Lead • Owen K.C. Stephens
Starfinder Society Developer • Thurston Hillman
Senior Designer • Stephen Radney-MacFarland
Designers • Logan Bonner and Mark Seifter
Managing Editor • Judy Bauer
Senior Editor • Christopher Paul Carey
Editors • James Case, Leo Glass, Lyz Liddell, Adrian Ng, Lacy Pellazar, and Jason Tondro
Art Director • Sonja Morris
Senior Graphic Designers • Emily Crowell and Adam Vick
Production Artist • Tony Barnett
Franchise Manager • Mark Moreland
Project Manager • Gabriel Waluconis
Paizo CEO • Lisa Stevens
Chief Creative Officer • Erik Mona
Chief Financial Officer • John Parrish
Chief Operations Officer • Jeffrey Alvarez
Chief Technical Officer • Vic Wertz
Director of Sales • Pierce Watters
Sales Associate • Cosmo Eisele
Vice President of Marketing & Licensing • Jim Butler
Marketing Manager • Dan Tharp
Licensing Manager • Glenn Elliott
Public Relations Manager • Aaron Shanks
Customer Service & Community Manager • Sara Marie
Operations Manager • Will Chase
Organized Play Manager • Tonya Woldridge
Human Resources Generalist • Angi Hodgson
Accountant • Christopher Caldwell
Data Entry Clerk • B. Scott Keim
Director of Technology • Raimi Kong
Web Production Manager • Chris Lambertz
Senior Software Developer • Gary Teter
Webstore Coordinator • Rick Kunz
Customer Service Team • Katina Davis, Virginia Jordan, Samantha Phelan, and
Diego Valdez
Warehouse Team • Laura Wilkes Carey, Mika Hawkins, Heather Payne, Jeff Strand, and
Kevin Underwood
Website Team • Brian Bauman, Robert Brandenburg, Whitney Chatterjee, Erik Keith,
Josh Thornton, and Andrew White
