Core Rulebook
622
Quickened
You gain 1 additional action at the start of your turn each
round. Many effects that make you quickened specify the
types of actions you can use with this additional action.
If you become quickened from multiple sources, you can
use the extra action you’ve been granted for any single
action allowed by any of the effects that made you
quickened. Because quickened has its effect at the start
of your turn, you don’t immediately gain actions if you
become quickened during your turn.
Restrained
You’re tied up and can barely move, or a creature has
you pinned. You have the flat-footed and immobilized
conditions, and you can’t use any actions with the attack
or manipulate traits except to attempt to Escape or Force
Open your bonds. Restrained overrides grabbed.
Sickened
You feel ill. Sickened always includes a value. You take
a status penalty equal to this value on all your checks
and DCs. You can’t willingly ingest anything—including
elixirs and potions—while sickened.
You can spend a single action retching in an attempt to
recover, which lets you immediately attempt a Fortitude
save against the DC of the effect that made you sickened.
On a success, you reduce your sickened value by 1 (or by
2 on a critical success).
Slowed
You have fewer actions. Slowed always includes a value.
When you regain your actions at the start of your turn,
reduce the number of actions you regain by your slowed
value. Because slowed has its effect at the start of your
turn, you don’t immediately lose actions if you become
slowed during your turn.
Stunned
You’ve become senseless. You can’t act while stunned.
Stunned usually includes a value, which indicates how
many total actions you lose, possibly over multiple turns,
from being stunned. Each time you regain actions (such
as at the start of your turn), reduce the number you regain
by your stunned value, then reduce your stunned value
by the number of actions you lost. For example, if you
were stunned 4, you would lose all 3 of your actions on
your turn, reducing you to stunned 1; on your next turn,
you would lose 1 more action, and then be able to use
your remaining 2 actions normally. Stunned might also
have a duration instead of a value, such as “stunned for
1 minute.” In this case, you lose all your actions for the
listed duration.
Stunned overrides slowed. If the duration of your
stunned condition ends while you are slowed, you count
the actions lost to the stunned condition toward those lost
to being slowed. So, if you were stunned 1 and slowed 2
at the beginning of your turn, you would lose 1 action
from stunned, and then lose only 1 additional action by
being slowed, so you would still have 1 action remaining
to use that turn.
Stupefied
Your thoughts and instincts are clouded. Stupefied always
includes a value. You take a status penalty equal to this
value on Intelligence-, Wisdom-, and Charisma-based
checks and DCs, including Will saving throws, spell
attack rolls, spell DCs, and skill checks that use these
ability scores. Any time you attempt to Cast a Spell while
stupefied, the spell is disrupted unless you succeed at a
flat check with a DC equal to 5 + your stupefied value.
Unconscious
You’re sleeping, or you’ve been knocked out. You can’t
act. You take a –4 status penalty to AC, Perception, and
Reflex saves, and you have the blinded and flat-footed
conditions. When you gain this condition, you fall prone
and drop items you are wielding or holding unless the
effect states otherwise or the GM determines you’re in a
position in which you wouldn’t.
If you’re unconscious because you’re dying, you can’t
wake up while you have 0 Hit Points. If you are restored
to 1 Hit Point or more via healing, you lose the dying and
unconscious conditions and can act normally on your
next turn.
If you are unconscious and at 0 Hit Points, but not
dying, you naturally return to 1 Hit Point and awaken
after sufficient time passes. The GM determines how long
you remain unconscious, from a minimum of 10 minutes
GAINING AND LOSING ACTIONS
Quickened, slowed, and stunned are the primary ways
you can gain or lose actions on a turn. The rules for
how this works appear on page 462. In brief, these
conditions alter how many actions you regain at the
start of your turn; thus, gaining the condition in the
middle of your turn doesn’t adjust your number of
actions on that turn. If you have conflicting conditions
that affect your number of actions, you choose which
actions you lose. For instance, the action gained from
haste lets you only Stride or Strike, so if you need to
lose one action because you’re also slowed, you might
decide to lose the action from haste, letting you keep
your other actions that can be used more flexibly.
Some conditions prevent you from taking a certain
subset of actions, typically reactions. Other conditions
simply say you can’t act. When you can’t act, you’re
unable to take any actions at all. Unlike slowed or
stunned, these don’t change the number of actions you
regain; they just prevent you from using them. That
means if you are somehow cured of paralysis on your
turn, you can act immediately.
