Sandstorms
Mild sandstorms and dust storms don’t present much
more danger than a windy rainstorm, but they can cause
damage to a creature’s lungs and spread diseases across
long distances. Heavy sandstorms deal minor slashing
damage each round to those exposed to the sand, force
creatures to hold their breath to avoid suffocation,
or both.
Tornadoes
In a tornado’s path, wind conditions impose severe
circumstance penalties, but creatures that would
normally be blown away are instead picked up in the
tornado’s funnel, where they take massive bludgeoning
damage from flying debris as they rise through the cone
until they are eventually expelled (taking bludgeoning
damage from falling).
Tornadoes usually travel around 300 feet per round
(roughly 30 miles per hour). They normally travel a few
miles before dissipating. Some tornadoes are stationary
or travel much faster.
Tsunamis
Tsunamis present many of the same dangers as flash
floods but are much larger and more destructive. Tsunami
waves can reach 100 feet or more in height, wrecking
buildings and creatures alike with massive bludgeoning
damage from both the wave itself and debris pulled up
along its path of destruction.
Volcanic Eruptions
Volcanic eruptions can contain any combination of ash,
lava bombs, lava flows, pyroclastic flows, and vents.
Ash
Ash from volcanic eruptions is hot enough to cause
minor fire damage each minute. It limits visibility like
a thick fog and can make air unbreathable, requiring
characters to hold their breath or suffocate (page 478).
Ash clouds generate ash lightning strikes, which typically
deal moderate electricity damage but are very unlikely
to hit an individual creature. Ash buildup on the ground
creates areas of uneven ground, difficult terrain, or
greater difficult terrain, and ash in the atmosphere can
block the sun for weeks or even months, leading to colder
temperatures and longer winters.
Lava Bombs
Pressure can launch lava into the air that falls as lava
bombs: masses of lava that solidify as they fly and shatter
on impact, dealing at least moderate bludgeoning damage
and moderate fire damage.
Lava Flows
Lava flows are an iconic volcanic threat; they usually
move between 5 and 60 feet per round over normal
ground, so characters can often outrun them. However,
flows can move up to 300 feet per round in a steep
volcanic tube or channel. Lava emanates heat that deals
minor fire damage even before it comes into contact
with creatures, and immersion in lava deals massive fire
damage each round.
Pyroclastic Flows
Mixes of hot gases and rock debris, pyroclastic flows
spread much faster than lava, sometimes more than
4,000 feet per round. While cooler than the hottest lava,
pyroclastic flows are capable of overwhelming entire
settlements. They work like avalanches but deal half of
their damage as fire damage.
Vents
Steam vents shoot from the ground, dealing moderate fire
damage or more in a wide column. Acidic and poisonous
gases released from beneath the surface can create wide
areas of hazardous terrain that deals at least minor acid
or poison damage.
Wildfires
Wildfires travel mainly along a front moving in a single
direction. In a forest, the front can advance up to 70
feet per round (7 miles per hour). They can move up
to twice as fast across plains due to a lack of shade
and the relatively low humidity. Embers from the fire,
carried by winds and rising hot air, can scatter, forming
spot fires as far as 10 miles away from the main
wildfire. Wildfires present three main threats: flames,
heat, and smoke.
Flames
Flames are hazardous terrain, usually dealing moderate
damage and potentially setting a character on fire,
dealing moderate persistent fire damage. The flames from
a small fire are often less dangerous than the advancing
heat from the front of a large fire.
Heat
Wildfires increase the temperature in advance of the front,
reaching nearly 1,500° F at the fire’s arrival, as hot as
some lava. This begins as minor fire damage every round
at a reasonable distance from the front and increases to
massive fire damage for someone within the wildfire.
Smoke
Wind can carry smoke far in front of the wildfire
itself. Smoke imposes a circumstance penalty to visual
Perception checks, depending on the thickness. It causes
creatures viewed through significant amounts of smoke
to be concealed, and it cuts off all visibility at half a mile
or less. Near or within the wildfire, the combination of
smoke and heated air require characters to hold their
breath or suffocate (page 478).
GAME MASTERING
519
10
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Skills
Feats
Equipment
Spells
The Age of
Lost OMENS
Playing the
Game
Game
mastering
Crafting
& Treasure
Appendix
