AID [reaction]
Trigger An ally is about to use an action that requires a skill
check or attack roll.
Requirements The ally is willing to accept your aid, and you
have prepared to help (see below).
You try to help your ally with a task. To use this reaction, you
must first prepare to help, usually by using an action during
your turn. You must explain to the GM exactly how you’re trying
to help, and they determine whether you can Aid your ally.
When you use your Aid reaction, attempt a skill check or
attack roll of a type decided by the GM. The typical DC is 20, but
the GM might adjust this DC for particularly hard or easy tasks.
The GM can add any relevant traits to your preparatory action
or to your Aid reaction depending on the situation, or even allow
you to Aid checks other than skill checks and attack rolls.
Critical Success You grant your ally a +2 circumstance bonus to
the triggering check. If you’re a master with the check you
attempted, the bonus is +3, and if you’re legendary, it’s +4.
Success You grant your ally a +1 circumstance bonus to the
triggering check.
Critical Failure Your ally takes a –1 circumstance penalty to the
triggering check.
CRAWL [one-action]
MOVE
Requirements You are prone and your Speed is at least 10 feet.
You move 5 feet by crawling and continue to stay prone.
DELAY [free-action]
Trigger Your turn begins.
You wait for the right moment to act. The rest of your turn doesn’t
happen yet. Instead, you’re removed from the initiative order.
You can return to the initiative order as a free action triggered by
the end of any other creature’s turn. This permanently changes
your initiative to the new position. You can’t use reactions until
you return to the initiative order. If you Delay an entire round
without returning to the initiative order, the actions from the
Delayed turn are lost, your initiative doesn’t change, and your
next turn occurs at your original position in the initiative order.
When you Delay, any persistent damage or other negative
effects that normally occur at the start or end of your turn occur
immediately when you use the Delay action. Any beneficial
effects that would end at any point during your turn also end.
The GM might determine that other effects end when you
Delay as well. Essentially, you can’t Delay to avoid negative
consequences that would happen on your turn or to extend
beneficial effects that would end on your turn.
DROP PRONE [one-action]
MOVE
You fall prone.
ESCAPE [one-action]
ATTACK
You attempt to escape from being grabbed, immobilized,
or restrained. Choose one creature, object, spell effect, hazard,
or other impediment imposing any of those conditions on you.
Attempt a check using your unarmed attack modifier against
the DC of the effect. This is typically the Athletics DC of a
creature grabbing you, the Thievery DC of a creature who tied
you up, the spell DC for a spell effect, or the listed Escape DC
of an object, hazard, or other impediment. You can attempt
an Acrobatics or Athletics check instead of using your attack
modifier if you choose (but this action still has the attack trait).
Critical Success You get free and remove the grabbed,
immobilized, and restrained conditions imposed by your
chosen target. You can then Stride up to 5 feet.
Success You get free and remove the grabbed, immobilized,
and restrained conditions imposed by your chosen target.
Critical Failure You don’t get free, and you can’t attempt to
Escape again until your next turn.
INTERACT [one-action]
MANIPULATE
You use your hand or hands to manipulate an object or the
terrain. You can grab an unattended or stored object, open a
door, or produce some similar effect. You might have to attempt
a skill check to determine if your Interact action was successful.
LEAP [one-action]
MOVE
You take a careful, short jump. You can Leap up to 10 feet
horizontally if your Speed is at least 15 feet, or up to 15 feet
horizontally if your Speed is at least 30 feet. You land in the
space where your Leap ends (meaning you can typically clear
a 5-foot gap, or a 10-foot gap if your Speed is 30 feet or more).
If you Leap vertically, you can move up to 3 feet vertically
and 5 feet horizontally onto an elevated surface.
Jumping a greater distance requires using the Athletics skill.
READY [two-actions]
CONCENTRATE
You prepare to use an action that will occur outside your
turn. Choose a single action or free action you can use, and
designate a trigger. Your turn then ends. If the trigger you
designated occurs before the start of your next turn, you can
use the chosen action as a reaction (provided you still meet
the requirements to use it). You can’t Ready a free action that
already has a trigger.
If you have a multiple attack penalty and your readied action
is an attack action, your readied attack takes the multiple
attack penalty you had at the time you used Ready. This is one
of the few times the multiple attack penalty applies when it’s
not your turn.
RELEASE [free-action]
MANIPULATE
You release something you’re holding in your hand or hands.
This might mean dropping an item, removing one hand from
your weapon while continuing to hold it in another hand,
releasing a rope suspending a chandelier, or performing a
similar action. Unlike most manipulate actions, Release does
Core Rulebook
470
