create social encounters in which characters duel only
with words. The rules for building encounters appropriate
to your group’s level begin below.
Some adventures have a clear and direct progression,
with encounters occurring at specific times or in a specific
order. Others, such as a dungeon filled with interconnected
rooms the group can investigate in any order, are
nonlinear, and the group can face encounters in any
order—or even avoid them entirely. Most adventures are
somewhere in between, with some keystone encounters
you know the characters will need to contend with, but
others that are optional.
Treasure
Your adventure should give out an amount of treasure
that’s appropriate to the characters’ level. The guidelines
for assigning treasure are on page 508. You can dole out
treasure in all kinds of ways. Treasure could be items carried
by an adversary, rewards from a patron for completing a
mission, or a classic pile of coins and items inside a wooden
chest guarded by a monster. It’s best to spread treasure
throughout an adventure rather than stockpiled in a single
hoard. This gives the players incremental rewards, letting
their characters advance in frequent small steps rather than
giant leaps separated by many hours of play.
BUILDING ENCOUNTERS
The most common type of encounter is a combat
encounter, where the PCs face other creatures. Combat
encounters are strictly governed by rules; the guidelines
that follow will help you build combat encounters that
pose appropriate challenges for your group. Building
hazard encounters works the same way. Social encounters
are more free-form, and are up to you as the GM to design.
To build a combat encounter, first decide how the
encounter fits in the adventure as a whole. Then, estimate
how much of a threat you want the encounter to pose,
using one of five categories below.
Trivial-threat encounters are so easy that the characters
have essentially no chance of losing; they shouldn’t
even need to spend significant resources unless they
are particularly wasteful. These encounters work best
as warm-ups, palate cleansers, or reminders of how
awesome the characters are. A trivial-threat encounter
can still be fun to play, so don’t ignore them just because
of the lack of threat.
Low-threat encounters present a veneer of difficulty
and typically use some of the party’s resources. However,
it would be rare or the result of very poor tactics for the
entire party to be seriously threatened.
Moderate-threat encounters are a serious challenge
to the characters, though unlikely to overpower them
completely. Characters usually need to use sound tactics
and manage their resources wisely to come out of a
moderate-threat encounter ready to continue on and face
a harder challenge without resting.
USING RARITY AND ACCESS
The rarity system has two purposes: to convey how
common or rare certain spells, creatures, or items are in
the game world, and to give you an easy tool to control
the complexity of your game. Uncommon and rare options
aren’t more powerful than other options of their level, but
they introduce complications for certain types of stories,
or are less common in the world. For instance, it might
be more challenging to run a mystery adventure when a
player can cast an uncommon spell such as detect evil.
At the start of the campaign, communicate your
preferred expectations on rarity to the players. Unless
you decide otherwise, the players can choose from any
common options they qualify for, plus any uncommon
options granted by their character choices—primarily
their ancestry and class. By default, a character who
tries hard enough might eventually find an uncommon
option, whereas a rare option is always a special reward.
Beyond that baseline, you can grant access as freely as
you want; some GMs open up all uncommon and rare
options universally. If you’re not sure, just look over any
uncommon or rare elements before you include them as
rewards or otherwise allow a player to acquire them.
Rewards
You can use uncommon and rare rules elements to
reward characters. These still have the same value and
approximate power as any other treasure of the same
Price, but they’re just a bit more special because they hail
from distant lands or have unusual or surprising abilities.
Items are the most likely candidates for uncommon or rare
rewards, but an NPC might teach an uncommon or rare
spell to a PC in gratitude or to help the party prepare for
a certain adversary. You can also improvise extra benefits
based around uncommon or rare items. For instance, if
a PC gains a rare plant with occult uses, you might also
decide that the PC should temporarily get more money if
they use it while Earning Income using Herbalism Lore,
because it enables them to produce novel poultices.
Different Locations
The rarities in this book assume you’re playing in the
Inner Sea region of Golarion, where most Pathfinder
games are set. These rarities are also suitable for most
western medieval fantasy games. However, you might
want to alter the rarities for a campaign set in another
location on Golarion (detailed in Chapter 8), to emphasize
a non-human culture, or to play in a fantasy setting with
different roots, like a wuxia game based on Chinese
culture. These changes most often affect basic items. If
you start your campaign in a dwarven stronghold, for
example, you might make all the weapons with the dwarf
trait common. You should feel free to adjust rarities to
suit your campaign’s theme, but if you do, you should
share your changes with your group.
Core Rulebook
488
