Class Features
You gain these abilities as a druid. Abilities gained at
higher levels list the level at which you gain them next to
the features’ names.
Ancestry and Background
In addition to the abilities provided by your class at 1st
level, you have the benefits of your selected ancestry and
background, as described in Chapter 2.
Initial Proficiencies
At 1st level you gain a number of proficiencies,
representing your basic training. These proficiencies are
noted at the start of this class.
Primal Spellcasting
The power of the wild world flows through you. You can
cast primal spells using the Cast a Spell activity, and you
can supply material, somatic, and verbal components when
casting spells (see Casting Spells on page 302). Because
you’re a druid, you can usually hold a primal focus (such as
holly and mistletoe) for spells requiring material components
instead of needing to use a spell component pouch.
At 1st level, you can prepare two 1st-level spells and
five cantrips each morning from the common spells on
the primal spell list in this book (page 314), or from other
primal spells to which you gain access. Prepared spells
remain available to you until you cast them or until you
prepare your spells again. The number of spells you can
prepare is called your spell slots.
As you increase in level as a druid, the number of spells
you can prepare each day increases, as does the highest
level of spell you can cast, as shown in Table 3–11: Druid
Spells per Day on page 132.
Some of your spells require you to attempt a spell
attack roll to see how effective they are, or have
your enemies roll against your spell DC (typically by
attempting a saving throw). Since your key ability is
Wisdom, your spell attack rolls and spell DCs use your
Wisdom modifier. Details on calculating these statistics
appear on page 447.
Heightening Spells
When you gain spell slots of 2nd level and higher, you can
fill those slots with stronger versions of lower-level spells.
This increases the spell’s level, heightening it to match the
spell slot. Many spells have specific improvements when
they are heightened to certain levels.
Cantrips
A cantrip is a special type of spell that doesn’t use spell
slots. You can cast a cantrip at will, any number of times
per day. A cantrip is always automatically heightened
to half your level rounded up—this is usually equal to
the highest level of spell you can cast as a druid. For
example, as a 1st-level druid, your cantrips are 1st-level
spells, and as a 5th-level druid, your cantrips are 3rd-
level spells.
Anathema
As stewards of the natural order, druids find affronts
to nature anathema. If you perform enough acts that
are anathema to nature, you lose your magical abilities
that come from the druid class, including your primal
spellcasting and the benefits of your order. These abilities
can be regained only if you demonstrate your repentance
by conducting an atone ritual (page 409).
The following acts are anathema to all druids:
•	 Using metal armor or shields.
•	 Despoiling natural places.
•	 Teaching the Druidic language to non-druids.
Each druidic order also has additional anathema acts,
detailed in the order’s entry.
Druidic Language
You know Druidic, a secret language known to only
druids, in addition to any languages you know through
your ancestry. Druidic has its own alphabet. Teaching the
Druidic language to non-druids is anathema.
TABLE 3–10: DRUID ADVANCEMENT
Your
Level	 Class Features
1
Ancestry and background, initial proficiencies,


primal spellcasting, anathema, Druidic language,


druidic order, Shield Block, wild empathy
2
Druid feat, skill feat
3
2nd-level spells, alertness, general feat, great


fortitude, skill increase
4
Druid feat, skill feat
5
3rd-level spells, ability boosts, ancestry feat,


lightning reflexes, skill increase
6
Druid feat, skill feat
7
4th-level spells, expert spellcaster, general feat,


skill increase
8
Druid feat, skill feat
9
5th-level spells, ancestry feat, skill increase
10
Ability boosts, druid feat, skill feat
11
6th-level spells, druid weapon expertise, general


feat, resolve, skill increase
12
Druid feat, skill feat
13
7th-level spells, ancestry feat, medium armor


expertise, skill increase, weapon specialization
14
Druid feat, skill feat
15
8th-level spells, ability boosts, general feat, master

spellcaster, skill increase
16
Druid feat, skill feat
17
9th-level spells, ancestry feat, skill increase
18
Druid feat, skill feat
19
General feat, legendary spellcaster, skill increase
20
Ability boosts, druid feat, skill feat
Core Rulebook
130
