ENDING ENCOUNTERS
A combat encounter typically ends when all the creatures
on one side are killed or knocked unconscious. Once
this happens, you can stop acting in initiative order.
The surviving side then has ample time to ensure that
everyone taken out stays down. However, you might need
to keep using combat rounds if any player characters are
near death, clinging to a cliff, or in some other situation
where every moment matters for their survival.
You can decide a fight is over if there’s no challenge
left, and the player characters are just cleaning up the last
few weak enemies. However, avoid doing this if any of
the players still have inventive and interesting things they
want to try or spells they’re concentrating on—ending
an encounter early is a tool to avoid boredom, not to
deny someone their fun. You can end a fight early in
several ways: the foes can surrender, an adversary can die
before its Hit Points actually run out, or you can simply
say the battle’s over and that the PCs easily dispatch
their remaining foes. In this last case, you might ask, “Is
everyone okay if we call the fight?” to make sure your
players are on board.
One side might surrender when almost all its
members are defeated or if spells or skills thoroughly
demoralize them. Once there’s a surrender, come out
of initiative order and enter into a short negotiation.
These conversations are really about whether the
winners will show mercy to the losers or just kill
or otherwise get rid of them. The surrendering side
usually doesn’t have much leverage in these cases, so
avoid long back-and-forth discussions.
Fleeing Enemies
Fleeing enemies can be a problem. Player characters
often want to pursue foes that flee because they think an
enemy might return as a threat later on. Avoid playing
this out move by move, as it can easily bog down the
game. If every adversary is fleeing, forgo initiative
order and give each PC the option to pursue any one
fleeing foe. Each PC can declare one action, spell, or
other ability to use to try to keep up. Then, compare the
PC’s Speed to that of the target, assess how much the
pursuer’s chosen spell or ability would help, and factor
in any abilities the quarry has that would aid escape.
If you determine that the pursuer catches up, go back
into combat with the original initiative order. If not, the
quarry escapes for now.
If the PCs decide to flee, it’s usually best to let them do
so. Pick a particular location and allow them to escape
once they all reach it. However, if they’re encumbered
or otherwise slowed down, or if enemies have higher
Speeds and a strong motive to pursue, you might impose
consequences upon PCs who flee.
SOCIAL ENCOUNTERS
Most conversations play best as free-form roleplaying,
with maybe one or two checks for social skills involved.
Sometimes, though, a tense situation or crucial parlay
requires a social encounter that uses initiative, much like
a combat encounter. As with any other encounter, the
stakes of a social encounter need to be high! A failed social
encounter could mean a character is imprisoned or put to
death, a major rival becomes a political powerhouse, or a
key ally is disgraced and ostracized.
Using the structure of an encounter is helpful because
it makes the timing clearer than in free-form play, and
each character feels like they’re contributing. When
running a social encounter, establish the stakes up
front, so the players know the consequences of success
or failure and the circumstances that will cause the
encounter to end.
You have much more flexibility in how you run a
social encounter than in a combat encounter. Extending
the length of rounds beyond 6 seconds, allowing more
improvisation, and focusing less on special attacks and
spells all differentiate a social encounter from a combat
one. In most cases, you don’t need to worry about
character’s movements, nor do you need a map. Some
examples of social encounters include:
•	 Proving someone’s innocence in front of a judge.
•	 Convincing a neighboring monarch to help defend
against an invasion.
•	 Besting a rival bard in a battle of wits.
•	 Exposing a villain’s deception before a noble court.
Initiative and Actions
Initiative in a social encounter typically has characters
rolling Society or a Charisma-based skill, such as
PLAYING WITHOUT A GRID
The Pathfinder rules are built to play combat encounters
on a 1-inch grid, but you can play without a grid or map.
In what’s traditionally called the “theater of the mind,”
you and other players imagine the locations of the
combatants and the environment. In this style of play,
you’ll frequently need to make judgment calls. These are
usually simple, like “Can I see the ogre from where I’m
standing?” or “Can I get to the ogre with one Stride?” It’s
often best to have a player tell you what they want to do,
such as “I want to cross the beam to get to the ogre and
attack it.” Then, you tell the player how that breaks down
into actions, like “You’ll need to spend one action and
succeed at an Acrobatics check, then Stride to get close
enough, then you’ll have one action left for a Strike.”
When preparing encounters, avoid using lots of
difficult terrain, cover, or other battlefield challenges
that work better on a grid. Also, be more lenient with
combat tactics like flanking. You won’t have a way to
measure flanking, but the rules expect melee characters
like rogues to often get into a flanking position—often,
two characters ganging up in melee is enough to count.
Core Rulebook
494
