Trade and travel rule the pathways of the so-called
Golden Road, known for its shining sands and economic
strength. Much of this region consists of sprawling desert
wilderness, but this does not mean that the Golden
Road is sparse in population. Coastlines and rivers
serve as the lifeblood of this region, and some caravans
brave the heat and dangers of the desert to trade across
northern Garund. Some of the oldest nations in the
Inner Sea region command this region, and ancient lore
and valuable treasures can be found amid the shifting
sands and storied cities.
The largest of these cities is the cosmopolitan
Katapesh, where mercantilism is overseen by a strange
group known as the Pactmasters. Much of the trade
in Katapesh is in goods that can be freely exported or
imported from throughout the Inner Sea region, but
the city does just as much business in avenues normally
regulated to the black markets of other societies.
Qadira’s cities may not be as individually large as
Katapesh, but the nation’s economy is perhaps the
strongest. It’s certainly the oldest in the region, with
support from the long-established Padishah Empire of
Kelesh to the east. This, coupled with the church of
Sarenrae—perhaps the nation’s most successful cultural
export to the rest of the Inner Sea region—has secured
Qadira’s status as one of the most important centers of
influence on the Golden Road.
To the west, the five city-states of Thuvia control
a legendary artifact called the sun orchid elixir, which
grants near-immortality to those who consume it. This
treasured commodity is the keystone of Thuvia’s place in
the Golden Road. Further west, the nation of Rahadoum
is perhaps the weakest mercantile link, but the fact that
this society has eschewed the worship of gods to place
its faith in the industry and talent of mortals alone gives
the nation its own compelling draw.
At the center of the Golden Road lies mighty Osirion,
one of the oldest nations of the Inner Sea region. While
Osirion was for a time ruled by Qadira, the legacies and
monuments of its early days still stand tall and are an
indisputable and iconic source of pride and identity to its
people. The influence of Osirion’s artisans, philosophers,
and spellcasters has spread far and wide, particularly via
the Esoteric Order of the Palatine Eye, far to the north in
Ustalav, and the faith of Nethys, whose not-so-humble
beginnings as a mortal wizard can be traced to the very
beginning of Osirion’s history during the ancient Age
of Destiny.
Golden Road
THE AGE OF LOST OMENS
423
8
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Skills
Feats
Equipment
Spells
The Age of
Lost OMENS
Playing the
Game
Game
mastering
Crafting
& Treasure
Appendix
