Core Rulebook
618
Conditions are persistent. Whenever you’re affected by
a condition, its effects last until the condition’s stated
duration ends, the condition is removed, or terms dictated
in the condition itself cause it to end.
Condition Values
Some conditions have a numerical value, called a
condition value, indicated by a numeral following the
condition. This value conveys the severity of a condition,
and such conditions often give you a bonus or penalty
equal to their value. These values can often be reduced by
skills, spells, or simply waiting. If a condition value is ever
reduced to 0, the condition ends.
Overriding Conditions
Some conditions override others. This is always specified
in the entry for the overriding condition. When this
happens, all effects of the overridden condition are
suppressed until the overriding condition ends. The
overridden condition’s duration continues to elapse, and
it might run out while suppressed.
List of Conditions
Blinded
You can’t see. All normal terrain is difficult terrain to you.
You can’t detect anything using vision. You automatically
critically fail Perception checks that require you to be
able to see, and if vision is your only precise sense, you
take a –4 status penalty to Perception checks. You are
immune to visual effects. Blinded overrides dazzled.
Broken
Broken is a condition that affects objects. An object is
broken when damage has reduced its Hit Points below
its Broken Threshold. A broken object can’t be used for
its normal function, nor does it grant bonuses—with the
exception of armor. Broken armor still grants its item bonus
to AC, but it also imparts a status penalty to AC depending
on its category: –1 for broken light armor, –2 for broken
medium armor, or –3 for broken heavy armor.
A broken item still imposes penalties and limitations
normally incurred by carrying, holding, or wearing  it.
For example, broken armor would still impose its Dexterity
modifier cap, check penalty, and so forth.
If an effect makes an item broken automatically and the
item has more HP than its Broken Threshold, that effect
also reduces the item’s current HP to the Broken Threshold.
Clumsy
Your movements become clumsy and inexact. Clumsy
always includes a value. You take a status penalty equal
to the condition value to Dexterity-based checks and
DCs, including AC, Reflex saves, ranged attack rolls, and
skill checks using Acrobatics, Stealth, and Thievery.
Concealed
While you are concealed from a creature, such as in a thick
fog, you are difficult for that creature to see. You can still
be observed, but you’re tougher to target. A creature that
you’re concealed from must succeed at a DC 5 flat check
when targeting you with an attack, spell, or other effect.
Area effects aren’t subject to this flat check. If the check
fails, the attack, spell, or effect doesn’t affect you.
Confused
You don’t have your wits about you, and you attack
wildly. You are flat-footed, you don’t treat anyone as your
ally (though they might still treat you as theirs), and you
can’t Delay, Ready, or use reactions.
You use all your actions to Strike or cast offensive
cantrips, though the GM can have you use other actions
to facilitate attack, such as draw a weapon, move so that a
target is in reach, and so forth. Your targets are determined
randomly by the GM. If you have no other viable targets,
you target yourself, automatically hitting but not scoring a
critical hit. If it’s impossible for you to attack or cast spells,
you babble incoherently, wasting your actions.
Each time you take damage from an attack or spell,
you can attempt a DC 11 flat check to recover from your
confusion and end the condition.
Controlled
Someone else is making your decisions for you, usually
because you’re being commanded or magically dominated.
The controller dictates how you act and can make you
use any of your actions, including attacks, reactions, or
even Delay. The controller usually does not have to spend
their own actions when controlling you.
Conditions Appendix
While adventuring, characters (and sometimes their belongings) are affected by abilities and
effects that apply conditions. For example, a spell or magic item might turn you invisible or
cause you to be gripped by fear. Conditions change your state of being in some way, and they
represent everything from the attitude other creatures have toward you and how they interact
with you to what happens when a creature drains your blood or life essence.
