an illusory piece of paper would rustle it. A program can be up to
1 minute long and repeats when finished. For instance, you could
create a scene of two orcs fighting each other, and the fight would
go the same way for each repetition. If you create a loop, the two
fighters end up in the same place at the start of the scene and at
the end of it, but you can smooth the program so it’s hard to tell
when the loop ends and begins. Anyone observing the scene for
more than a few minutes almost always notices it looping. You’re
unable to alter the program after you create the illusion.
Any creature that touches any part of the image or uses
the Seek action to examine it can attempt to disbelieve your
illusion. If they interact with a portion of the illusion, they
disbelieve only that portion. They disbelieve the entire scene
only on a critical success.
Heightened (6th) Creatures or objects in your scene can speak.
You must speak the specific lines for each actor when creating
your program. The spell disguises your voice for each actor.
Heightened (8th) As the 6th-level version, and the duration
is unlimited.
IMPLOSION
SPELL 9
EVOCATION
Traditions arcane, primal
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal
Range 30 feet; Targets 1 corporeal creature
Saving Throw basic Fortitude; Duration sustained up to 1 minute
You crush the target by causing it to collapse in on itself, dealing
75 damage. Each time you Sustain the Spell, you must choose a
new target to be subject to the same effect; the same creature
can never be targeted more than once with a single casting of
this spell. You also can’t affect more than one creature per turn
with implosion. You can’t target a creature that’s incorporeal,
gaseous, or liquid, or one that otherwise lacks a solid form.
Heightened (+1) The damage increases by 10.
INSECT FORM
SPELL 3
POLYMORPH
TRANSMUTATION
Traditions primal
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal
Duration 1 minute
You envision a simple bug and transform into a Medium animal
battle form. When you cast this spell, choose ant, beetle,
centipede, mantis, scorpion, or spider. You can decide the specific
type of animal (such as such as a ladybug or scarab for beetle),
but this has no effect on the form’s Size or statistics. While in
this form, you gain the animal trait. You can Dismiss this spell.
You gain the following statistics and abilities regardless of
which battle form you choose:
•	 AC = 18 + your level. Ignore your armor’s check penalty
and Speed reduction.
•	 10 temporary Hit Points.
•	 Low-light vision.
Core Rulebook
346
