While the opportunity for epic adventure exists throughout
the world, in recent years it seems the Saga Lands have
produced the most notorious and legendary tales. These
sprawling northern reaches feature kingdoms ruled by
vikings and witches, realms home to mammoth-riding
Kellid clans, and a frontier land of free cities and
dangerous wilderness—all of which are steeped in the
ancient legacy of the long-gone empire of Thassilon.
Millennia ago, the nation of Thassilon was ruled by
the sinful, tyrannical runelords. These wizards carved
out legends intended to last for an eternity, but even
the mighty runelords succumbed to the devastation
of Earthfall. The seven reigning runelords of that time
retreated into the safety of extradimensional domains,
and for eons they slumbered, until they began to wake
in 4707 ar.
The frontier realm of Varisia, once the heart of
Thassilon, bore the brunt of the wrath of the first
wakened runelord, an avaricious sadist named Karzoug.
A band of unlikely heroes emerged from the small
coastal town of Sandpoint to eventually face and
defeat Karzoug, yet his wakening soon roused other
slumbering runelords, and a new band of heroes was
forced to defeat the risen tyrants.
While the neighboring Lands of the Linnorm Kings,
Realms of the Mammoth Lords, and witch-haunted
Irrisen never faced direct repercussions from the
runelords, these northern lands hold dangers of their
own. A long-running cold war between the vikings
of the Linnorm Kingdoms and the winter witches of
Irrisen to the east finally came to a sputtering end when
a daughter of the immortal witch Baba Yaga attempted
to defy her mother and usurp Irrisen’s traditions of
rule. While the eternal winter of Irrisen set in place by
Baba Yaga endures, its new ruler, Anastasia, may prove
to be the first benevolent presence to sit on the throne
in centuries. Farther to the east, the Kellid clans of the
Realm of the Mammoth Lords played their own pivotal
roles in defying the demons of the Worldwound.
Recently, a new nation has risen in the Saga Lands.
After the runelords were defeated, two surviving
runelords decided to adjust their traditions to fit this
strange new world they found themselves in. Now the
fledgling nation of New Thassilon sprawls along the
northern border of Varisia, and it remains to be seen if
its rulers will fully adopt a more peaceful path, or if it is
but a matter of time before the old traditions of sin and
violence rise once again.
Saga Lands
Core Rulebook
428
