SHIELD ACTIONS
The shield spell works like a raised shield, and it also
gives you the ability to use the Shield Block reaction.
SHIELD BLOCK [reaction]
Trigger While you have your shield raised, you take
damage from a physical attack.
You place your shield to ward off a blow. Your shield prevents
you from taking an amount of damage up to the shield’s
Hardness. You and the shield each take any remaining
damage, possibly breaking or destroying the shield.
SHIELD OTHER
SPELL 2
NECROMANCY
Traditions divine
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal
Range 30 feet; Targets 1 creature
Duration 10 minutes
You forge a temporary link between the target’s life essence
and your own. The target takes half damage from all effects
that deal Hit Point damage, and you take the remainder of the
damage. When you take damage through this link, you don’t
apply any resistances, weaknesses, or other abilities you have
to that damage; you simply take that amount of damage. The
spell ends if the target is ever more than 30 feet away from
you. If either you or the target is reduced to 0 Hit Points, any
damage from this spell is resolved and then the spell ends.
SHILLELAGH
SPELL 1
PLANT
TRANSMUTATION
Traditions primal
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal
Range touch; Targets 1 non-magical club or staff you hold
Duration 1 minute
The target grows vines and leaves, brimming with primal
energy. The target becomes a +1 striking weapon while in your
hands, gaining a +1 item bonus to attack rolls and increasing
the number of weapon damage dice to two. Additionally, as
long as you are on your home plane, attacks you make with
the target against aberrations, extraplanar creatures, and
undead increase the number of weapon damage dice to three.
SHOCKING GRASP
SPELL 1
ATTACK
ELECTRICITY
EVOCATION
Traditions arcane, primal
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal
Range touch; Targets 1 creature
You shroud your hands in a crackling field of lightning. Make
a melee spell attack roll. On a hit, the target takes 2d12
electricity damage. If the target is wearing metal armor or
is made of metal, you gain a +1 circumstance bonus to your
attack roll with shocking grasp, and the target also takes 1d4
persistent electricity damage on a hit. On a critical hit, double
the initial damage, but not the persistent damage.
Heightened (+1) The damage increases by 1d12, and the
persistent electricity damage increases by 1.
SHRINK
SPELL 2
POLYMORPH
TRANSMUTATION
Traditions arcane, primal
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal
Range 30 feet; Targets 1 willing creature
Duration 5 minutes
You warp space to make a creature smaller. The target shrinks
to become Tiny in size. Its equipment shrinks with it but
returns to its original size if removed. The creature’s reach
changes to 0 feet. This spell has no effect on a Tiny creature.
Heightened (6th) The spell can target up to 10 creatures.
SHRINK ITEM
SPELL 3
POLYMORPH
TRANSMUTATION
Traditions arcane
Cast 10 minutes (somatic, verbal)
Range touch; Targets 1 non-magical object up to 20 cubic feet
in volume and up to 80 Bulk
Duration 1 day
You shrink the target to roughly the size of a coin. This reduces
it to negligible Bulk. You can Dismiss the spell, and the spell
ends if you toss the object onto a solid surface. The object
can’t be used to attack or cause damage during the process of
it returning to normal size. If there isn’t room for the object to
return to normal size when the spell ends, the spell’s duration
continues until the object is in a location large enough to
accommodate its normal size.
SIGIL
CANTRIP 1
CANTRIP
TRANSMUTATION
Traditions arcane, divine, occult, primal
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal
Range touch; Targets 1 creature or object
Duration unlimited (see below)
You harmlessly place your unique magical sigil, which is about
1 square inch in size, on the targeted creature or object. The
mark can be visible or invisible, and you can change it from
one state to another by using an Interact action to touch
the target. The mark can be scrubbed or scraped off with 5
minutes of work. If it’s on a creature, it fades naturally over
the course of a week. The time before the mark fades increases
depending on your heightened level.
Heightened (3rd) The sigil instead fades after 1 month.
Heightened (5th) The sigil instead fades after 1 year.
Heightened (7th) The sigil never fades.
SILENCE
SPELL 2
ILLUSION
Traditions divine, occult
Cast [two-actions] material, somatic
Range touch; Targets 1 willing creature
Duration 1 minute
The target makes no sound, preventing creatures from noticing
it using hearing or other senses alone. The target can’t use
sonic attacks, nor can it use actions with the auditory trait. This
prevents it from casting spells that include verbal components.
369
7
SPELLS
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Skills
Feats
Equipment
Spells
The Age of
Lost OMENS
Playing the
Game
Game
mastering
Crafting
& Treasure
Appendix
