Many taller people dismiss halflings due to their size
or, worse, treat them like children. Halflings use these
prejudices and misconceptions to their advantage, gaining
access to opportunities and performing deeds of daring
mischief or heroism. A halfling’s curiosity is tempered
by wisdom and caution, leading to calculated risks and
narrow escapes.
While their wanderlust and curiosity sometimes drive
them toward adventure, halflings also carry strong ties
to house and home, often spending above their means to
achieve comfort in their homelife.
If you want to play a character who must contend with
these opposing drives toward adventure and comfort,
you should play a halfling.
You Might...
•	 Get along well with a wide variety of people and
enjoy meeting new friends.
•	 Find it difficult to resist indulging your curiosity,
even when you know it’s going to lead to trouble.
•	 Hold a deep and personal hatred of the practice of
slavery and devote yourself to freeing those who
still labor against their will.
Others Probably...
•	 Appreciate your ability to always find a silver
lining or something to laugh about, no matter
how dire the situation.
•	 Think you bring good luck with you.
•	 Underestimate your strength, endurance, and
fighting prowess.
Physical Description
Halflings are short humanoids who look vaguely like
smaller humans. They rarely grow to be more than 3
feet in height. Halfling proportions vary, with some
looking like shorter adult humans with slightly larger
heads and others having proportions closer to those of
a human child.
Most halflings prefer to walk barefoot rather than
wearing shoes, and those who do so develop roughly
calloused soles on their feet over time. Tufts of thick,
often-curly hair warm the tops of their broad, tanned
feet. Halfling skin tones tend toward rich, tawny shades
like amber or oak, and their hair color ranges from a light
golden blond to raven black.
Halfling
Claiming no place as their own, halflings control few settlements larger than villages.
Instead, they frequently live among humans within the walls of larger cities, carving out
small communities alongside taller folk. Many halflings lead perfectly fulfilling lives in the
shadows of their larger neighbors, while others prefer a nomadic existence, traveling the
world and taking advantage of opportunities and adventures as they come.
Optimistic and cheerful, blessed with uncanny luck, and
driven by powerful wanderlust, halflings make up for
their short stature with an abundance of bravado and
curiosity. At once excitable and easygoing, they are the
best kind of opportunists, and their passions favor joy
over violence. Even in the jaws of danger, halflings rarely
lose their sense of humor.
Core Rulebook
50
