Actions below, you usually lose the time you put in, but
no additional time beyond that.
Actions with Triggers
You can use free actions that have triggers and reactions
only in response to certain events. Each such reaction and
free action lists the trigger that must happen for you to
perform it. When its trigger is satisfied—and only when it
is satisfied—you can use the reaction or free action, though
you don’t have to use the action if you don’t want to.
There are only a few basic reactions and free actions that
all characters can use. You’re more likely to gain actions
with triggers from your class, feats, and magic items.
Limitations on Triggers
The triggers listed in the stat blocks of reactions and some
free actions limit when you can use those actions. You
can use only one action in response to a given trigger. For
example, if you had a reaction and a free action that both
had a trigger of “your turn begins,” you could use either of
them at the start of your turn—but not both. If two triggers
are similar, but not identical, the GM determines whether
you can use one action in response to each or whether
they’re effectively the same thing. Usually, this decision will
be based on what’s happening in the narrative.
This limitation of one action per trigger is per creature;
more than one creature can use a reaction or free action
in response to a given trigger.
Other Actions
Sometimes you need to attempt something not already
covered by defined actions in the game. When this happens,
the rules tell you how many actions you need to spend, as
well any traits your action might have. For example, a spell
that lets you switch targets might say you can do so “by
spending a single action, which has the concentrate trait.”
Game masters can also use this approach when a character
tries to do something that isn’t covered in the rules.
Gaining and Losing Actions
Conditions can change the number of actions you can use
on your turn, or whether you can use actions at all. The
slowed condition, for example, causes you to lose actions,
while the quickened condition causes you to gain them.
Conditions are detailed in the appendix on pages 618–623.
Whenever you lose a number of actions—whether from
these conditions or in any other way—you choose which
to lose if there’s any difference between them. For instance,
the haste spell makes you quickened, but it limits what you
can use your extra action to do. If you lost an action while
haste was active, you might want to lose the action from
haste first, since it’s more limited than your normal actions.
Some effects are even more restrictive. Certain abilities,
instead of or in addition to changing the number of
actions you can use, say specifically that you can’t use
reactions. The most restrictive form of reducing actions
is when an effect states that you can’t act: this means you
can’t use any actions, or even speak. When you can’t act,
you don’t regain your actions and reaction on your turn.
Disrupting Actions
Various abilities and conditions, such as an Attack of
Opportunity, can disrupt an action. When an action
is disrupted, you still use the actions or reactions you
committed and you still expend any costs, but the action’s
effects don’t occur. In the case of an activity, you usually
lose all actions spent for the activity up through the end of
that turn. For instance, if you began a Cast a Spell activity
requiring 3 actions and the first action was disrupted, you
lose all 3 actions that you committed to that activity.
The GM decides what effects a disruption causes
beyond simply negating the effects that would have
IN-DEPTH ACTION RULES
These rules clarify some of the specifics of using actions.
Simultaneous Actions
You can use only one single action, activity, or free action
that doesn’t have a trigger at a time. You must complete
one before beginning another. For example, the Sudden
Charge activity states you must Stride twice and then
Strike, so you couldn’t use an Interact action to open a door
in the middle of the movement, nor could you perform part
of the move, make your attack, and then finish the move.
Free actions with triggers and reactions work differently.
You can use these whenever the trigger occurs, even if the
trigger occurs in the middle of another action.
Subordinate Actions
An action might allow you to use a simpler action—usually
one of the Basic Actions on page 469—in a different
circumstance or with different effects. This subordinate
action still has its normal traits and effects, but is modified
in any ways listed in the larger action. For example, an
activity that tells you to Stride up to half your Speed
alters the normal distance you can move in a Stride. The
Stride would still have the move trait, would still trigger
reactions that occur based on movement, and so on. The
subordinate action doesn’t gain any of the traits of the
larger action unless specified. The action that allows you to
use a subordinate action doesn’t require you to spend more
actions or reactions to do so; that cost is already factored in.
Using an activity is not the same as using any of its
subordinate actions. For example, the quickened condition
you get from the haste spell lets you spend an extra action
each turn to Stride or Strike, but you couldn’t use the extra
action for an activity that includes a Stride or Strike. As
another example, if you used an action that specified, “If the
next action you use is a Strike,” an activity that includes a
Strike wouldn’t count, because the next thing you are doing
is starting an activity, not using the Strike basic action.
Core Rulebook
462
