though the larger a tribe is, the more diligent the leader must be to keep order—a
notoriously difficult task. As new threats rise across the Inner Sea region, many tribal
elders have put aside their reckless ways in the hope of forging alliances that offer
their people a greater chance at survival. Play and creativity matter more to goblins
than productivity or study, and their encampments erupt with songs and laughter.
Goblins bond closely with their allies, fiercely protecting those companions who
have protected them or offered a sympathetic ear. Goblins tend to assume for their
own protection that members of taller ancestries, which goblins often refer to
colloquially as “longshanks,” won’t treat them kindly. Learning to trust longshanks
is difficult for a goblin, and it’s been only in recent years that such a partnership
has even been an option. However, their attitude as a people is changing rapidly,
and their short lifespans and poor memories help them adapt quickly.
Alignment and Religion
Even well-intentioned goblins have trouble following the rules, meaning they’re
rarely lawful. Most goblin adventurers are chaotic neutral or chaotic good.
Organized worship confounds goblins, and most of them would rather pick their
own deities, choosing powerful monsters, natural wonders, or anything else they
find fascinating. Longshanks might have books upon books about the structures of
divinity, but to a goblin, anything can be a god if you want it to. Goblins who spend
time around people of other ancestries might adopt some of their beliefs, though,
and many goblin adventurers adopt the worship of Cayden Cailean.
Names
Goblins keep their names simple. A good name should be easy to pronounce, short
enough to shout without getting winded, and taste good to say. The namer often
picks a word that rhymes with something they like so that writing songs is easier.
Since there aren’t any real traditions regarding naming in goblin culture, children
often name themselves once they’re old enough to do something resembling talking.
Sample Names
Ak, Bokker, Frum, Guzmuk, Krobby, Loohi, Mazmord, Neeka, Omgot, Ranzak,
Rickle, Tup, Wakla, Yonk, Zibini
Goblin Heritages
Goblins, especially those of different tribes, have all sorts of physiological differences,
which they often discover only through hazardous “experiments.” Choose one of the
following goblin heritages at 1st level.
Charhide Goblin
Your ancestors have always had a connection to fire and a thicker skin, which allows
you to resist burning. You gain fire resistance equal to half your level (minimum 1).
You can also recover from being on fire more easily. Your flat check to remove
persistent fire damage is DC  10 instead of DC  15, which is reduced to DC 5 if
another creature uses a particularly appropriate action to help.
Irongut Goblin
You can subsist on food that most folks would consider spoiled. You can keep yourself
fed with poor meals in a settlement as long as garbage is readily available, without using
the Subsist downtime activity. You can eat and drink things when you are sickened.
You gain a +2 circumstance bonus to saving throws against afflictions, against
gaining the sickened condition, and to remove the sickened condition. When you
roll a success on a Fortitude save affected by this bonus, you get a critical success
instead. All these benefits apply only when the affliction or condition resulted from
something you ingested.
Hit Points
6
Size
Small
Speed
25 feet
Ability Boosts
Dexterity
Charisma
Free
Ability Flaw
Wisdom
Languages
Common
Goblin
Additional languages equal to
your Intelligence modifier (if it’s
positive). Choose from Draconic,
Dwarven, Gnoll, Gnomish,
Halfling, Orcish, and any other
languages to which you have
access (such as the languages
prevalent in your region).
Traits
Goblin
Humanoid
Darkvision
You can see in darkness and
dim light just as well as you
can see in bright light, though
your vision in darkness is in
black and white.
2
Ancestries & backgrounds
47
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Skills
Feats
Equipment
Spells
The Age of
Lost OMENS
Playing the
Game
Game
mastering
Crafting
& Treasure
Appendix
