Duration
Most effects are discrete, creating an instantaneous effect
when you let the GM know what actions you are going
to use. Firing a bow, moving to a new space, or taking
something out of your pack all resolve instantly. Other
effects instead last for a certain duration. Once the duration
has elapsed, the effect ends. The rules generally use the
following conventions for durations, though spells have
some special durations detailed on pages 304–305.
For an effect that lasts a number of rounds, the remaining
duration decreases by 1 at the start of each turn of the
creature that created the effect. This is common for beneficial
effects that target you or your allies. Detrimental effects often
last “until the end of the target’s next turn” or “through” a
number of their turns (such as “through the target’s next 3
turns”), which means that the effect’s duration decreases at
the end of the creature’s turn, rather than the start.
Instead of lasting a fixed number of rounds, a duration
might end only when certain conditions are met (or cease to
be true). If so, the effects last until those conditions are met.
Range and Reach
Actions and other abilities that generate an effect typically
work within a specified range or a reach. Most spells and
abilities list a range—the maximum distance from the
creature or object creating the effect in which the effect
can occur.
Ranged and thrown weapons have a range increment.
Attacks with such weapons work normally up to that
range. Attacks against targets beyond that range take a –2
penalty, which worsens by 2 for every additional multiple
of that range, to a maximum of a –10 penalty after five
additional range increments. Attacks beyond this range
are not possible. For example, if you are using a shortbow,
your attacks take no penalty against a target up to 60 feet
away, a –2 penalty if a target is over 60 and up to 120 feet
away, a –4 if a target is over 120 and up to 180 feet away,
and so on, up to a maximum distance of 360 feet.
Reach is how far you can physically reach with your body
or a weapon. Melee Strikes rely on reach. Your reach also
creates an area around your space where other creatures
could trigger your reactions. Your reach is typically 5 feet,
but weapons with the reach trait can extend this. Larger
creatures can have greater reach; for instance, an ogre has
a 10-foot reach. Unlike with measuring most distances, 10-
foot reach can reach 2 squares diagonally. Reach greater
than 10 feet is measured normally; 20-foot reach can reach
3 squares diagonally, 25-foot reach can reach 4, and so on.
Targets
Some effects require you to choose specific targets.
Targeting can be difficult or impossible if your chosen
creature is undetected by you, if the creature doesn’t match
restrictions on who you can target, or if some other ability
prevents it from being targeted.
Some effects require a target to be willing. Only you
can decide whether your PC is willing, and the GM
decides whether an NPC is willing. Even if you or your
455
9
PLAYING THE GAME
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Skills
Feats
Equipment
Spells
The Age of
Lost OMENS
Playing the
Game
Game
mastering
Crafting
& Treasure
Appendix
