A bubble of pure air appears around the target’s head, allowing
it to breathe normally. The effect ends as soon as the target
returns to an environment where it can breathe normally.
AIR WALK
SPELL 4
AIR
TRANSMUTATION
Traditions divine, primal
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal
Range touch; Targets 1 creature
Duration 5 minutes
The target can walk on air as if it were solid ground. It can ascend
and descend in this way at a maximum of a 45-degree angle.
ALARM
SPELL 1
ABJURATION
Traditions arcane, divine, occult, primal
Cast 10 minutes (material, somatic, verbal); Requirements 3
gp silver bell focus
Range touch; Area 20-foot burst
Duration 8 hours
You ward an area to alert you when creatures enter without your
permission. When you cast alarm, select a password. Whenever
a Small or larger corporeal creature enters the spell’s area without
speaking the password, alarm sends your choice of a mental
alert (in which case the spell gains the mental trait) or an audible
alarm with the sound and volume of a hand bell (in which case
the spell gains the auditory trait). Either option automatically
awakens you, and the bell allows each creature in the area to
attempt a DC 15 Perception check to wake up. A creature aware
of the alarm must succeed at a Stealth check against the spell’s
DC or trigger the spell when moving into the area.
Heightened (3rd) You can specify criteria for which creatures
sound the alarm spell—for instance, orcs or masked people.
ALTER REALITY
SPELL 10
DIVINATION
Traditions occult
Cast [three-actions] material, somatic, verbal
You use your occult lore and the power of your mind to manipulate
the spiritual multiverse, resulting in any of the following effects:
•	 Duplicate any occult spell of 9th level or lower.
•	 Duplicate any non-occult spell of 7th level or lower.
•	 Produce any effect whose power is equivalent to any
occult spell 9th level or lower, or non-occult spell 7th
level or lower.
•	 Reverse certain effects that refer to the wish spell
At the GM’s discretion, you can try to produce greater effects,
but this is dangerous and the spell may have only a partial effect.
ANATHEMATIC REPRISAL
SPELL 4
ENCHANTMENT
MENTAL
Traditions divine
Cast [reaction] somatic, verbal; Trigger A creature performs an act
anathema to your deity.
Range 30 feet; Targets the triggering creature
Saving Throw Will
You punish a creature that transgresses against your deity,
drawing upon the anguish you feel upon seeing one of your
deity’s anathema committed.
You can cast this spell only when a creature actively commits
a unique act of anathema. For example, if creating undead
were anathema to your deity, you could use anathematic
reprisal on a necromancer who had just created undead in
front of you, but not on an undead creature just for existing.
You deal 4d6 mental damage to the target, but a basic Will
save can reduce this damage. If it fails, it is also stupefied 1 for
1 round. The creature is then temporarily immune for 1 minute.
Heightened (+1) The damage increases by 1d6.
ANIMAL FORM
SPELL 2
POLYMORPH
TRANSMUTATION
Traditions primal
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal
Duration 1 minute
You call upon primal energy to transform yourself into a Medium
animal battle form. When you first cast this spell, choose ape,
bear, bull, canine, cat, deer, frog, shark, or snake. You can decide
the specific type of animal (such as lion or snow leopard for cat),
but this has no effect on the form’s Size or statistics. While in
this form, you gain the animal trait. You can Dismiss the spell.
You gain the following statistics and abilities regardless of
which battle form you choose:
•	 AC = 16 + your level. Ignore your armor’s check penalty
and Speed reduction.
•	 5 temporary Hit Points.
•	 Low-light vision and imprecise scent 30 feet.
•	 One or more unarmed melee attacks specific to the
battle form you choose, which are the only attacks you
can use. You’re trained with them. Your attack modifier
is +9, and your damage bonus is +1. These attacks
are Strength based (for the purpose of the enfeebled
condition, for example). If your unarmed attack bonus
is higher, you can use it instead.
•	 Athletics modifier of +9, unless your own modifier
is higher.
You also gain specific abilities based on the type of animal
you choose:
•	 Ape Speed 25 feet, climb Speed 20 feet; Melee [one-action] fist,
Damage 2d6 bludgeoning.
•	 Bear Speed 30 feet; Melee [one-action] jaws, Damage 2d8 piercing;
Melee [one-action] claw (agile), Damage 1d8 slashing.
•	 Bull Speed 30 feet; Melee [one-action] horn, Damage 2d8 piercing.
•	 Canine Speed 40 feet; Melee [one-action] jaws, Damage 2d8
piercing.
•	 Cat Speed 40 feet; Melee [one-action] jaws, Damage 2d6 piercing;
Melee [one-action] claw (agile), Damage 1d10 slashing.
•	 Deer Speed 50 feet; Melee [one-action] antler, Damage 2d6 piercing.
•	 Frog Speed 25 feet, swim Speed 25 feet; Melee [one-action] jaws,
Damage 2d6 bludgeoning; Melee [one-action] tongue (reach 15
feet), Damage 2d4 bludgeoning.
•	 Shark swim Speed 35 feet; Melee [one-action] jaws, Damage
2d8 piercing; breathe underwater but not in air.
317
7
SPELLS
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Skills
Feats
Equipment
Spells
The Age of
Lost OMENS
Playing the
Game
Game
mastering
Crafting
& Treasure
Appendix
