MINDLINK
SPELL 1
DIVINATION
MENTAL
Traditions occult
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal
Range touch; Targets 1 willing creature
You link your mind to the target’s mind and mentally impart to
that target an amount of information in an instant that could
otherwise be communicated in 10 minutes.
MIRACLE
SPELL 10
DIVINATION
Traditions divine
Cast [three-actions] material, somatic, verbal
You request aid directly from your divine source. Your divine
source always refuses a request out of line with its nature, and
it might grant a different request (potentially more powerful or
better fitting its nature) than the one you asked for. A casting
of miracle can do any of the following things.
•	 Duplicate any divine spell of 9th level or lower.
•	 Duplicate any non-divine spell of 7th level or lower.
•	 Produce any effect whose power level is in line with
the above effects.
•	 Reverse certain effects that refer to the wish spell.
The GM might allow you to try using miracle to produce
greater effects than these, but doing so may be dangerous, or
the spell may have only a partial effect.
MIRROR IMAGE
SPELL 2
ILLUSION
VISUAL
Traditions arcane, occult
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal
Duration 1 minute
Three illusory images of you swirl about your space, potentially
causing those who attack you to hit one of the images instead
of you. Any attack that would hit you has a random chance of
hitting one of your images instead of you. If all three images
remain, there is a 1 in 4 chance of hitting you (1 on 1d4). With
two images remaining, there is a 1 in 3 chance of hitting you (1–2
on 1d6). With only one image, the chances are 1 in 2 (1–3 on 1d6).
Once an image is hit, it is destroyed. If an attack roll fails
to hit your AC but doesn’t critically fail, it destroys an image
but has no additional effect (even if the attack would normally
have an effect on a failure). If an attack roll is a critical
success and would hit one of the images, one of the images is
destroyed and the attack roll becomes a success against you.
Once all the images are destroyed, the spell ends.
MISDIRECTION
SPELL 2
ILLUSION
Traditions arcane, occult
Cast 1 minute (somatic, verbal)
Range 30 feet; Targets 2 creatures or objects
Duration until the next time you make your daily preparations
You reshape the magic aura of one creature or object to
resemble that of another. You designate one target as
the primary target and the other as the secondary target.
Effects that would detect auras on the primary target instead
detect the same types of auras from the secondary target.
A creature reading the aura can attempt to disbelieve the
illusion. You can Dismiss the spell from up to a mile away.
MISLEAD
SPELL 6
ILLUSION
Traditions arcane, occult
Cast [two‑acactions] somatic, verbal
Duration sustained up to 1 minute
You turn yourself invisible and create an illusory duplicate of
yourself. When you Sustain the Spell, you can mentally dictate
a course of action for your duplicate to follow that round. Your
duplicate acts as though it had your full number of actions,
though it can’t actually affect anything in the environment.
Both the duplicate and your invisibility persist for the spell’s
duration. Performing a hostile action doesn’t end mislead’s
invisibility, just like a 4th-level invisibility spell. A creature
that determines the duplicate is an illusion doesn’t necessarily
know you’re invisible, and one that can see your invisible form
doesn’t necessarily know your duplicate is an illusion.
If you Cast a Spell, attack, or otherwise interact with
another creature, as a part of that action you can attempt
a Deception check against observers’ Perception DCs to
convince them your duplicate used that action. This doesn’t
fool anyone who’s aware your duplicate is an illusion, nor does
it work if the attack obviously couldn’t have come from the
duplicate. For instance, if you fired a ray, you could make it
look like it came from the duplicate as long as the duplicate
was positioned appropriately, but if you attacked with a sword
and your duplicate was across the room from the target, your
Deception check would automatically fail.
MODIFY MEMORY
SPELL 4
UNCOMMON
DIVINATION
MENTAL
Traditions occult
Cast [two‑acactions] somatic, verbal
Range 30 feet; Targets 1 creature
Saving Throw Will; Duration unlimited
You alter the target’s memories, either erasing a memory,
enhancing a memory’s clarity, altering a memory, or adding
a false memory. The target can attempt a Will save to resist
the spell.
Critical Success The target is unaffected and realizes you tried
to alter its memory.
Success The target is unaffected but thinks your spell was
something harmless instead of modify memory, unless it
identifies the spell.
Failure During the first 5 minutes of the spell’s duration,
you can Sustain the Spell to modify a memory once each
round. When you do, you imagine up to 6 seconds of
memory to modify, to a maximum of 5 continuous minutes
of memory.
Any memories you’ve altered remain changed as long as the
spell is active. If the target moves out of range before the 5
minutes is up, you can’t alter any further memories.
Core Rulebook
352
