an especially large handheld instrument (like a tuba) has
greater Bulk. Heavy instruments such as large drums, a full
set of chimes, and keyboard instruments are less portable
and generally need to be stationary while played.
A virtuoso instrument gives a +1 item bonus to
Performance checks using that instrument.
Oil: You can use oil to fuel lanterns, but you can
also set a pint of oil aflame and throw it. You
must first spend an Interact action preparing
the oil, then throw it with another action as
a ranged attack. If you hit, it splatters on
the creature or in a single 5-foot square
you target. You must succeed at a DC 10 flat
check for the oil to ignite successfully when it hits.
If the oil ignites, the target takes 1d6 fire damage.
Piton: These small spikes can be used as anchors
to make climbing easier. To affix a piton, you must
hold it in one hand and use a hammer to drive it in
with your other hand. You can attach a rope to the
hammered piton so that you don’t fall all the way to the
ground on a critical failure while Climbing.
Religious Symbol: This piece of wood or silver is
emblazoned with an image representing a deity. Some
divine spellcasters, such as clerics, can use a religious
symbol of their deity as a divine focus to use certain
abilities and cast some spells. A religious symbol must be
held in one hand to use it.
Religious Text: This manuscript contains
scripture of a particular religion. Some
divine spellcasters, such as clerics, can use a
religious text as a divine focus to use certain
abilities and cast some spells. A religious
text must be held in one hand to use it.
Repair Kit: A repair kit allows you to
perform simple repairs while traveling.
It
contains
a
portable
anvil,
tongs,
woodworking tools, a whetstone, and oils for
conditioning leather and wood. You can use a
repair kit to Repair items using the Crafting skill. A
superb repair kit gives you a +1 item bonus to the check.
Sack: A sack can hold up to 8 Bulk worth of items. A
sack containing 2 Bulk or less can be worn on the body,
usually tucked into a belt. You can carry a sack with one
hand, but must use two hands to transfer items in and out.
Saddlebags: Saddlebags come in a pair. Each can hold up
to 3 Bulk of items. The Bulk value given is for saddlebags
worn by a mount. If you are carrying or stowing saddlebags,
they count as 1 Bulk instead of light Bulk.
Satchel: A satchel can hold up to 2 Bulk worth of
items. If you are carrying or stowing a satchel rather
than wearing it over your shoulder, it counts as light Bulk
instead of negligible.
Scholarly Journal: Scholarly journals are uncommon.
Each scholarly journal is a folio on a very specific topic, such
as vampires or the history of a single town or neighborhood
of a city. If you spend 1 minute referencing an academic
journal before attempting a skill check to Recall Knowledge
about the subject, you gain a +1 item bonus to the check. A
compendium of journals costs five times as much as a single
journal and requires both hands to use; each compendium
contains several journals and grants its bonus on a broader
topic, such as all undead or a whole city. The GM
determines what scholarly journals are available in
any location.
Scroll Case: Scrolls, maps, and other rolled
documents are stored in scroll cases for
safe transport.
Sheath: A sheath or scabbard lets you
easily carry a weapon on your person.
Signal Whistle: When sounded, a signal whistle
can be heard clearly up to half a mile away across
open terrain.
Snare Kit: This kit contains tools and materials for
creating snares. A snare kit allows you to Craft snares
using the Crafting skill. A specialist snare kit gives you
a +1 item bonus to the check.
Spellbook: A spellbook holds the written knowledge
necessary to learn and prepare various spells, a necessity
for wizards (who typically get one for free) and a useful
luxury for other spellcasters looking to learn additional
spells. Each spellbook can hold up to 100 spells. The
Price listed is for a blank spellbook.
Spyglass: A typical spyglass lets you see eight
times farther than normal. A fine spyglass
adds a +1 item bonus to Perception checks
to notice details at a distance.
Survey Map: Maps are uncommon.
Most maps you can find are simple
and functional. A survey map details a
single location in excellent detail. One
of these maps gives you a +1 item bonus
to Survival checks and any skill checks to
Recall Knowledge, provided the checks are
related to the location detailed on the map.
Maps sometimes come in atlases, containing a
number of maps of the same quality, often on similar
topics. An atlas costs five times as much as a single map
and requires both hands to use. The GM determines what
maps are available in any location.
Tack: Tack includes all the gear required to outfit a
riding animal, including a saddle, bit and bridle, and
stirrups if necessary. Especially large or oddly shaped
animals might require specialty saddles. These can be
more expensive or hard to find, as determined by the
GM. The Bulk value given is for tack worn by a creature.
If carried, the Bulk increases to 2.
Ten-Foot Pole: When wielding this long pole, you can
use Seek to search a square up to 10 feet away. The pole
is not sturdy enough to use as a weapon.
Thieves’ Tools: You need thieves’ tools to Pick Locks or
Disable Devices (of some types) using the Thievery skill.
Infiltrator thieves’ tools add a +1 item bonus to checks
EQUIPMENT
6
291
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Skills
Feats
Equipment
Spells
The Age of
Lost OMENS
Playing the
Game
Game
mastering
Crafting
& Treasure
Appendix
