you and had 2 Bulk. The GM might also allow you to wield
the mattock if you have some other means of wielding
oversized weapons, such as if you’re a Large barbarian with
the giant instinct or are a Huge creature. When it’s used as
a weapon, the mattock of the titans has the statistics
of a +3 greater striking keen adamantine
great pick.
While you’re wielding the mattock of
the titans, you gain a +3 item bonus to Athletics
checks. You can use it to loosen or push soft earth at a rate
of 1 minute per 5-foot cube or smash through solid stone at
the rate of 5 minutes per 5-foot-cube.
Activate [two-actions] Interact; Frequency once per day; Effect
You dig furiously with the mattock to non-magically
replicate the effects of an earthquake spell.
Craft Requirements You are a titan, and the initial raw
materials must include 8,100 gp of adamantine.
OATHBOW
ITEM 11
DIVINATION
 MAGICAL
Price 1,300 gp
Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk 2
Constructed of a flexible, white wood and with
ornate, twisting designs carved into its surface, this
+2 striking composite longbow appears to have been
made by elves. Sometimes when you loose an arrow,
its whistling in flight sounds like a voice whispering
in Elven, wishing for the swift defeat of your enemies.
Activate [one-action] command; Effect You swear an oath to
destroy one creature you can see. For the next 7 days
or until that creature is slain, your attacks with the
bow against that creature deal 1d6 additional damage,
and you gain a +2 circumstance bonus to Survival
checks to Track that creature. Your critical hits against
the target gain the bow’s critical specialization effect
(page 283); if they would already do so, they instead
increase the DC of the Athletics check to Escape when
critically hit to DC 20.
After you activate the bow, you can’t activate it
again for 7 days. If you kill the creature you’ve sworn
an oath against, the oath ends and you need to wait
only 10 minutes before you can activate it again.
RETRIBUTION AXE
ITEM 3
ENCHANTMENT
 MAGICAL
Price 60 gp
Usage held in 2 hands; Bulk 2
The blade of this +1 greataxe bears a design of a
human skull. Whenever a creature damages you
with an attack, the skull changes its appearance
to look like the face of that creature. You gain
a +2 circumstance bonus to your next damage
roll against that creature before the end of your next turn.
Because the face reshapes each time you’re damaged, you
get the additional damage only if you attack the creature that
damaged you most recently.
SKY HAMMER
ITEM 20
RARE
 EVOCATION
 MAGICAL
Price 70,000 gp
Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk 1
The sturdy, steel head of this +3 major striking
flaming shock orichalcum warhammer is shaped
like a blazing comet.
Activate [reaction] command; Trigger Your attack roll
with the sky hammer is a critical success; Effect
A 6th-level arcane fireball spell explodes, centered on
the sky hammer. The spell DC is 45. You are immune to the
fireball’s effect, though your allies are not.
Craft Requirements Supply a casting of fireball (6th level),
and the initial raw materials must include 12,375 gp of
orichalcum.
STORM FLASH
ITEM 14+
ELECTRICITY
 EVOCATION
 MAGICAL
Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk 1
This +2 greater striking shock rapier has a golden blade,
and miniature electric arcs flash across its guard while it’s
wielded. When out of its sheath under an open sky, the blade
causes storm clouds to gather slowly above.
Activate [two-actions] command, envision; Frequency once per day;
Effect You cast a 6th-level lightning bolt (DC 33).
Activate [reaction] command; Frequency once per 10 minutes;
Trigger An electricity effect targets you or a creature within
10 feet of you, or has you or a creature within 10 feet of
you in its area; Effect You try to divert the electricity off
course, to be absorbed by storm flash. Choose one eligible
creature to protect and roll a melee attack roll against the
DC of the electricity effect. If you succeed, the chosen
creature takes no electricity damage from the triggering
effect.
Type storm flash; Level 14; Price 4,000 gp
Type greater storm flash; Level 18; Price 21,000 gp
This is a +3 greater striking greater shock rapier. When
activating the sword to cast lightning bolt, the spell
is 8th level.
TWINING STAFF
ITEM 6
MAGICAL
 TRANSMUTATION
Price 250 gp
Usage held in 1 or 2 hands; Bulk — to 2
Appearing to be just a small, flat disc made of twigs, this
item can grow and shrink.
Activate [one-action] Interact; Effect You cause the twigs to rapidly
grow or contract, reshaping into a +1 striking staff, a +1 striking
bo staff, or its disc form. In its disc form, it has negligible Bulk
and must be held in one hand to be activated. In the other
forms, it has the same Bulk as a normal weapon of its type. You
can switch your grip as part of the activation.
When you expand the item, you can use the force of the
expansion to High Jump or to try to Force Open a door or the
like by wedging the disc into a gap before activation. The staff
makes the Athletics check with a +15 modifier.
Core Rulebook
602
