NATURE INCARNATE
SPELL 10
POLYMORPH
TRANSMUTATION
Traditions primal
Cast [two‑actions] somatic, verbal
Duration 1 minute
The primal power of the world flows through you. You
transform into an incarnation of nature, either a green man
or a kaiju. Your battle form is Medium for a green man or
Gargantuan (30-foot-by-30-foot space) for a kaiju. You must
have enough space to expand into or the spell is lost. While
in this form, you gain the plant trait (for a green man) or the
beast trait (for a kaiju). You can Dismiss the spell.
You gain the following statistics and abilities regardless of
which battle form you choose:
•	 AC = 25 + your level. Ignore your armor’s check penalty
and Speed reduction.
•	 30 temporary Hit Points.
•	 Darkvision.
•	 One or more attacks specific to the battle form you
choose, which are the only attacks you can use. You’re
trained with them. Your attack modifier is +34, and
you use the listed damage. These attacks are Strength
based (for the purpose of the enfeebled condition, for
example). If your unarmed attack modifier is higher,
you can use it instead.
•	 Athletics modifier of +36, unless your own modifier
is higher.
You also gain specific abilities based on the type of
incarnation you choose:
•	 Green Man Speed 40 feet, climb Speed 40 feet; Melee
[one‑action] vines (reach 30 feet, versatile P), Damage 6d8+12
bludgeoning; Ranged [one‑action] thorns (range 100 feet),
Damage 6d6+6 piercing; Green Caress (aura, primal,
transmutation) 60 feet. Enemies other than plants
must succeed at a Fortitude save against your spell
DC or become clumsy 1 for 1 round (clumsy 2 on a
critical failure).
•	 Kaiju Speed 50 feet; resistance 5 to physical damage;
Melee [one‑action] jaws (reach 30 feet), Damage 6d10+10
piercing; Melee [one‑action] claws (agile, reach 30 feet), Damage
6d8+8 slashing; Melee [one‑action] foot (agile, reach 15 feet),
Damage 6d6+10 bludgeoning; Unstoppable You are
immune to being immobilized and ignore difficult
terrain and greater difficult terrain; Trample [three‑actions] You
move up to double your Speed and move through the
spaces of Huge or smaller creatures, trampling each
creature whose space you enter. A trampled creature
takes foot damage with a basic Reflex save against
your spell DC.
NATURE’S ENMITY
SPELL 9
ENCHANTMENT
Traditions primal
Cast [two‑actions] somatic, verbal
Range 120 feet; Area 500-foot burst; Targets up to 5 creatures
Duration 10 minutes
Animals and plants in the area turn against the targets. Each
target suffers from the following effects as long as it remains
in the area.
•	 Vegetation springs up from every surface, giving each
target a –10-foot circumstance penalty to its Speed
any time it’s adjacent to the plants.
•	 Aggressive animals attack unpredictably. At the start
of its turn, each target rolls a DC 8 flat check. On a
failure, it’s attacked by swarming creatures that deal
2d10 slashing damage. The target attempts a basic
Reflex save, and it is flat-footed for 1 round on any
outcome other than a critical success.
•	 The target loses any connection to nature or natural
creatures. The target has to succeed at a DC 5 flat
check when casting any primal spell or the spell fails.
Furthermore, animal or plant creatures become hostile
to it, even one with a strong bond to the target, such
as an animal companion.
The GM might decide that you can’t subject some creatures,
such as an emissary of a nature deity, to the ire of nature.
NEGATE AROMA
SPELL 1
ABJURATION
Traditions arcane, primal
Cast [two‑actions] somatic, verbal
Range touch; Targets 1 willing creature
Duration 1 hour
The target loses its odor, preventing creatures from passively
noticing its presence via smell alone, even if the creatures have
precise or imprecise scent. A creature attempting a Perception
check to Seek with scent and other senses might notice the
lack of natural scent. If the target has any abilities that result
from its smell, such as an overpowering scent, those abilities
are also negated.
Heightened (5th) The range increases to 30 feet, and you can
target up to 10 creatures.
NEUTRALIZE POISON
SPELL 3
HEALING
NECROMANCY
Traditions divine, primal
Cast [two‑actions] somatic, verbal
Range touch; Targets 1 creature
You pour healing magic through the target in an attempt
to cure one poison afflicting it. Attempt a counteract check
against the poison.
NIGHTMARE
SPELL 4
ILLUSION
MENTAL
Traditions arcane, occult
Cast 10 minutes (material, somatic, verbal)
Range planetary; Targets 1 creature you know by name
Saving Throw Will; Duration 1 day
You send disturbing nightmares to your target. The next time the
target falls asleep, it must attempt a Will save. If you know the
target only by name and have never met them, the target gets a
+4 circumstance bonus to the Will save.
Core Rulebook
354
