SAMPLE ALCHEMIST
14TH LEVEL
GLIB MUTAGEN
FEAT 14
ALCHEMIST
Your silvertongue mutagen transcends languages and
plausibility. When affected by a silvertongue mutagen
you have created, you ignore circumstance penalties to
Deception, Diplomacy, Intimidation, and Performance
checks. In addition, your words transcend linguistic barriers;
everyone listening to you speak hears your words as if you
were speaking in their own language (though you do not
actually speak that language, nor does this ability allow you
to understand any additional languages).
GREATER MERCIFUL ELIXIR
FEAT 14
ALCHEMIST
Prerequisites Merciful Elixir
Your additives contain panaceas that can remedy a plethora
of maladies. When you use Merciful Elixir, your elixir
can instead attempt to counteract the blinded, deafened,
sickened, or slowed condition.
TRUE DEBILITATING BOMB
FEAT 14
ALCHEMIST
Prerequisites Greater Debilitating Bomb
Ever inventive, you have discovered increasingly devastating
ways for your bombs to impede and hamper your foes. When
you use Debilitating Bomb, add the following to the list of
effects you can choose from: enfeebled  2, stupefied 2, or
a –15-foot status penalty to Speeds. If you instead apply
one of the effects listed in Debilitating Bomb, the target
avoids the effect only if the result of its saving throw is a
critical success.
16TH LEVEL
ETERNAL ELIXIR
FEAT 16
ALCHEMIST
Prerequisites Extend Elixir
Your body readily accepts and retains minor changes. When
you drink one of your alchemical items that has the elixir and
infused traits and a duration of 1 minute or more, you can
make the elixir’s duration indefinite. You can do so only if the
elixir’s level is half your level or lower. If you later consume
a different elixir and make it indefinite, the effect of the
previous indefinite elixir ends.
EXPLOITIVE BOMB [free-action]
FEAT 16
ADDITIVE 2
ALCHEMIST
Frequency once per round
Trigger You craft an alchemical bomb using Quick Alchemy
that’s at least 2 levels lower than your advanced
alchemy level.
You mix a substance into the bomb to foil resistances. The
bomb reduces any resistance the enemy has to its damage
type by an amount equal to your level, but only for that attack.
MUTAGENIST
You transform yourself and others with mutagens.
ABILITY SCORES
Prioritize Intelligence and Strength. Constitution helps
you survive transformations and combat, and Wisdom
helps keep your mind intact despite the warping.
SKILLS
Athletics, Arcana, Crafting, Intimidation, Occultism,
Society, Stealth, Survival
RESEARCH FIELD
Mutagenist
STARTING FEAT
Alchemical Familiar
HIGHER-LEVEL FEATS
Revivifying Mutagen (2nd), Feral Mutagen (8th),
Invincible Mutagen (12th), Persistent Mutagen (16th),
Perfect Mutagen (20th)
Core Rulebook
80
