•	 Reprehensible uses of mind-control magic
Villains might engage in such acts, but they won’t happen
“on-screen” or won’t be described in detail. Many groups
choose to not have villains engage in these activities at all,
keeping these reprehensible acts out of mind entirely.
Social Splash Damage
As important as it is to take care of yourself and the other
players in your game, be mindful of your group’s impact
on the other people around you. If you’re playing in a
space that’s not your own, respect your hosts. If you’re
playing in public, consider the comfort of the people
around you, not just what your group is comfortable with.
It’s easy to get caught up in a game, as we get sucked into
the microcosm of an imagined world, but don’t ignore the
real world around you. Be aware when you’re making
too much noise, leaving a mess, alarming passersby with
graphic descriptions of violence, or even just giving the
cold shoulder to curious spectators witnessing RPG play
for the first time.
CHARACTER CREATION
At the outset of a new campaign, the players will create
new player characters. Part of that process involves you
introducing what the campaign will be about and what
types of characters are most appropriate. Work with the
players to determine which rule options are available. The
safest options are the common choices from the Pathfinder
Core Rulebook. If players want to use common options
from other books or uncommon or rare options, through
play, review those options to see if any of them conflict
with the style of campaign you have in mind or might
present strange surprises down the road. It’s usually best to
allow new options, but there’s no obligation to do so. Be as
open as you’re comfortable with.
Preparing an Adventure
An adventure is a self-contained collection of story
elements, characters, and settings that become the basis
for the story you and the other players tell. Think of
the adventure as an outline for your own story. You’ll
have major beats you want to include, some consistent
characters, and themes you want to convey, but all sorts
of things can change during the process of turning the
outline into a completed story.
You might use a published adventure from Paizo or
another company, or you might construct your own
adventure as you prepare for your game sessions.
PUBLISHED ADVENTURES
Prewritten adventures include background information
and nonplayer characters needed for the story, plus all the
locations, maps, and monster groups necessary for both
exploration and encounters. Prewritten adventures can
speed up your preparation, since you can simply read the
Objectionable Content
Before a campaign begins, check in with your players—
as a group or individually—to find out what types of
content they want to allow in the game, and which topics
they would prefer to avoid. Because the story unfolds in
real time, it’s essential that you discuss these topics before
the game starts. These discussions are intended to keep
players safe, and so it’s not okay to ask why someone
wants a type of content banned. If someone wants it
banned, ban it—no questions asked.
It can help to start with a rating, like those used for
movies or video games. Pathfinder games often include
violence and cruelty. What’s the limit on how graphically
these concepts should be described? Can players swear at
the table? Does anyone have phobias they don’t want to
appear in the game, such as spiders or body horror?
After you figure out the limits on objectionable content,
you have four important tasks:
•	 Clearly convey these limits to the other players.
•	 Ensure you and the players abide by the boundaries.
•	 Act immediately if someone becomes uncomfortable
about content during a session, even if it wasn’t
already banned in a prior discussion. Once the issue
is resolved, move on.
•	 Resolve the issue if any player deliberately pushes
these boundaries, tries to find loopholes, tries to
renegotiate the limits, or belittles people for having
a different tolerance to objectionable content.
The Pathfinder Baseline
You might find that your players don’t have much to say
on the topic of objectionable content, and just assume that
general societal mores will keep the most uncomfortable
topics out of the game. That’s not always enough, as that
approach relies on shared assumptions that aren’t always
accurate. The following is a set of basic assumptions that
works for many groups, which you can modify to fit your
preferences and those of the other players.
•	 Bloodshed, injuries, and even dismemberment
might be described. However, excessive descriptions
of gore and cruelty should be avoided.
•	 Romantic and sexual relationships can happen in
the game, but players should avoid being overly
suggestive. Sex always happens “off-screen.”
Because attempts at initiating a relationship
between player characters can be uncomfortably
similar to one player hitting on another, this should
generally be avoided (and is entirely inappropriate
when playing with strangers).
•	 Avoid excessively gross or scatological descriptions.
The following acts should never be performed by
player characters:
•	 Torture
•	 Rape, nonconsensual sexual contact, or sexual threats
•	 Harm to children, including sexual abuse
•	 Owning slaves or profiting from the slave trade
Core Rulebook
486
