Chapter 4: Skills
While your character’s ability scores represent their raw talent and potential, skills represent
their training and experience at performing certain tasks. Each skill is keyed to one of your
character’s ability scores and used for an array of related actions. Your character’s expertise
in a skill comes from several sources, including their background and class. In this chapter,
you’ll learn about skills, their scope, and the actions they can be used for.
A character’s acumen in skills can come from all sorts of training, from practicing
acrobatic tricks to studying academic topics to rehearsing a performing art. When
you create your character and as they advance in level, you have flexibility as to
which skills they become better at and when. Some classes depend heavily on
certain skills—such as the alchemist’s reliance on Crafting—but for most classes,
you can choose whichever skills make the most sense for your character’s theme and
backstory at 1st level, then use their adventure and downtime experiences to inform
how their skills should improve as your character levels up.
A character gains training in certain skills at 1st level: typically two skills from
their background, a small number of predetermined skills from their class, and
several skills of your choice granted by your class. This training increases your
proficiency ranks for those skills to trained instead of untrained and lets you use
more of the skills’ actions. Sometimes you might gain training in a specific skill from
multiple sources, such as if your background granted training in Crafting and you
took the alchemist class, which also grants training in Crafting. Each time after the
first that you would gain the trained proficiency rank in a given skill, you instead
allocate the trained proficiency to any other skill of your choice.
Key Ability
Each skill is tied to a key ability. You add your modifier for this ability to checks
and DCs when using that skill. For example, skulking about the shadows of a city at
night with Stealth uses your Dexterity modifier, navigating the myriad personalities
and power plays of court politics with Society uses your Intelligence modifier, and
so on. The key ability for each skill is listed on Table 4–1: Skills, Key Abilities, and
Actions on page 235 and also appears in parentheses following the skill’s name
in the descriptions on the following pages. If the GM deems it appropriate for a
certain situation, however, they might have you use a different ability modifier for
a skill check or when determining your skill DC.
Skill Actions
The actions you can perform with a given skill are sorted into those you can use
untrained and those that require you to be trained in the skill, as shown on Table
4–1: Skills, Key Abilities, and Actions (page 235). The untrained and trained actions
of each skill appear in separate sections within the skill’s description.
Anyone can use a skill’s untrained actions, but you can use trained actions only
if you have a proficiency rank of trained or better in that skill. A circumstance,
condition, or effect might bar you from a skill action regardless of your proficiency
rank, and sometimes using a skill in a specific situation might require you to have a
higher proficiency rank than what is listed on the table. For instance, even though
a barbarian untrained in Arcana could identify a construct with a lucky roll using
Arcana to Recall Knowledge, the GM might decide that Recalling Knowledge
to determine the spells used to create such a construct is beyond the scope of
the barbarian’s anecdotal knowledge. The GM decides whether a task requires a
particular proficiency rank.
IMPROVING SKILLS
As your character advances
in level, there are two main
ways their skills improve: skill
increases and skill feats. Your
class lists the levels at which you
gain each of these improvements.
SKILL INCREASES
Skill increases improve your
proficiency in skills of your
choice. You can use these
increases to become trained
in new skills or increase your
proficiency rank in skills you’re
trained in (from trained to
expert at any level, expert to
master at 7th level or higher,
and master to legendary at 15th
level or higher). Unlike when
you first become trained at a
skill, if two different abilities
would make you an expert,
master, or legendary in a skill,
you don’t get to choose a second
skill to become expert in—the
redundant benefit simply has
no effect.
SKILL FEATS
Skill feats are a type of general
feat that often grant you a
new way to use a skill or make
you better at using a skill in a
particular way. Skill feats always
have the skill trait. These feats
appear in Chapter 5.
4
233
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Skills
Feats
Equipment
Spells
The Age of
Lost OMENS
Playing the
Game
Game
mastering
Crafting
& Treasure
Appendix
