Requirements You are currently affected by a mental effect that
you gained by failing, but not critically failing, a saving throw.
You can find a loophole in a mental effect to temporarily
overcome it. Until the end of your next turn, you ignore a single
mental effect that meets the requirement. You can suppress a
particular effect using Cognitive Loophole only once.
Special You can use this reaction even if the mental effect is
preventing you from using reactions.
DISPELLING SLICE [two-actions]
FEAT 16
ROGUE
Your sneak attack slices through the threads binding magic
to a target. Make a Strike against a flat-footed creature
(your choice). If your Strike deals sneak attack damage, you
attempt to counteract a single spell active on the target.
Your counteract level is equal to your rogue level, and your
counteract check modifier is equal to your class DC – 10.
PERFECT DISTRACTION [one-action]
FEAT 16
ROGUE
Prerequisites legendary in Deception
You use clever tactics to mislead your foes as you sneak away.
You Sneak while leaving a decoy behind. The decoy acts as
the spell mislead, though you aren’t invisible, just undetected.
You can continue to concentrate to move your decoy, as with
the spell, whether or not you remain hidden throughout the
duration. Once you use Perfect Distraction, you need to spend
10 minutes to set up another decoy before you can use it again.
18TH LEVEL
IMPLAUSIBLE INFILTRATION [two-actions]
FEAT 18
MAGICAL
MOVE
ROGUE
Prerequisites legendary in Acrobatics, Quick Squeeze
Requirements You are adjacent to a floor or vertical wall.
You find tiny holes or imperfections that no one else could see
and try to somehow fit yourself through them, possibly moving
directly through the wall or floor from one side to the other. Your
movement attempt fails if the wall or floor is made of something
other than wood, plaster, or stone; is thicker than 10 feet; or
contains even a thin layer of metal. If you have a climb Speed,
you can use this ability to attempt to move through a ceiling.
POWERFUL SNEAK
FEAT 18
ROGUE
You have learned to exploit your enemies’ lowered defenses.
When you succeed or critically succeed at a Strike using your
Strength modifier on the attack roll and you would deal sneak
attack damage, you can change the additional damage from
sneak attack into ordinary damage of the same type as your
Strike, rather than precision damage.
TRICKSTER’S ACE [reaction]
FEAT 18
CONCENTRATE
ROGUE
Trigger You specify the trigger when you make your daily
preparations (see Requirements below).
Requirements When you make your daily preparations, you
must specify a trigger for this reaction using the same
restrictions as the triggers for the Ready action. You also
choose a single spell from the arcane, divine, occult, or
primal list of 4th level or lower. The spell can’t have a cost,
nor can its casting time be more than 10 minutes. The spell
must be able to target a single creature, and you must be a
valid target for it.
Whether from jury-rigged magic items, stolen magical
essence, or other means, you have a contingency in your
back pocket for desperate situations. When the trigger
occurs, you cause the spell to come into effect. The spell
targets only you, no matter how many creatures it would
affect normally. If you define particularly complicated
conditions, as determined by the GM, the trigger might fail.
Once the contingency is triggered, the spell is expended until
your next daily preparations.
20TH LEVEL
HIDDEN PARAGON [reaction]
FEAT 20
ROGUE
Prerequisites legendary in Stealth
Frequency once per hour
Trigger You successfully use Stealth to Hide and become
hidden from all of your current foes, or use Stealth to Sneak
and become undetected to all your current foes.
When you put your mind to slipping out of sight, you disappear
completely. You become invisible for 1 minute, even if you use
a hostile action. Not even glitterdust, see invisibility, or similar
effects can reveal you, though creatures can still use the Seek
action to locate you as normal.
IMPOSSIBLE STRIKER
FEAT 20
ROGUE
Prerequisites Sly Striker
Your attacks are swift and deadly beyond explanation.
Nothing can prevent you from making a sneak attack, even
if your opponent can see every blow coming. Instead of
dealing the damage from Sly Striker, you can deal your full
sneak attack damage to a target even if the target isn’t
flat-footed.
REACTIVE DISTRACTION [reaction]
FEAT 20
CONCENTRATE
MANIPULATE
ROGUE
Prerequisites legendary in Deception, Perfect Distraction
Trigger You would be hit by an attack or targeted by an effect,
or you are within an effect’s area.
Requirements You have Perfect Distraction ready to use.
You reactively switch with your decoy to foil your foe. You use
Perfection Distraction, even if you were observed, as long as
you end the movement of your Sneak while concealed or in a
location with cover or greater cover. Your decoy is targeted
by the attack or effect instead of you. In the case of an area
effect, if your Sneak doesn’t move you out of the area, both
you and the decoy are targeted by the effect.
189
3
CLASSES
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Skills
Feats
Equipment
Spells
The Age of
Lost OMENS
Playing the
Game
Game
mastering
Crafting
& Treasure
Appendix
