STONE TELL
SPELL 6
UNCOMMON
EVOCATION
EARTH
Traditions divine, primal
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal
Duration 10 minutes
You can ask questions of and receive answers from natural or
worked stone. While stone is not intelligent, you speak with the
natural spirits of the stone, which have a personality colored by
the type of stone, as well as by the type of structure the stone is
part of, for worked stone. A stone’s perspective, perception, and
knowledge give it a worldview different enough from a human’s
that it doesn’t consider the same details important. Stones can
mostly answer questions about creatures that touched them in
the past and what is concealed beneath or behind them.
STONE TO FLESH
SPELL 6
EARTH
TRANSMUTATION
Traditions divine, primal
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal
Range touch; Targets petrified creature or human-size stone object
Manipulating the fundamental particles of matter, you convert
stone into flesh and blood. You restore a petrified creature to
its normal state or transform a stone object into a mass of inert
flesh (without stone’s Hardness) in roughly the same shape.
STONESKIN
SPELL 4
ABJURATION
EARTH
Traditions arcane, primal
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal
Range touch; Targets 1 creature
Duration 20 minutes
The target’s skin hardens like stone. It gains resistance 5 to
physical damage, except adamantine. Each time the target is
hit by a bludgeoning, piercing, or slashing attack, stoneskin’s
duration decreases by 1 minute.
Heightened (6th) The resistance increases to 10.
Heightened (8th) The resistance increases to 15.
Heightened (10th) The resistance increases to 20.
STORM OF VENGEANCE
SPELL 9
AIR
ELECTRICITY
EVOCATION
Traditions primal
Cast [three-actions] material, somatic, verbal
Range 800 feet; Area 360-foot burst
Duration sustained up to 1 minute
A massive storm cloud forms in the air in a 360-foot burst.
Beneath it, rain begins to fall, and gales impose a –4 circumstance
penalty to physical ranged attacks and weapon ranged attacks,
and the air in the area becomes greater difficult terrain for flying
creatures. When you Cast this Spell and the first time each round
you Sustain the Spell, you can choose one of the following storm
effects. You can’t choose the same effect twice in a row.
•	 Acid Rain Each creature in the storm takes 4d8 acid
damage with no saving throw.
•	 Hail The storm deals 4d10 bludgeoning damage to
creatures beneath it (basic Fortitude save).
•	 Lightning Up to 10 bolts of lightning strike down,
targeting creatures of your choice in the storm. No
more than one bolt can target any one creature. Each
bolt deals 7d6 electricity damage (basic Reflex save).
•	 Rain and Wind Heavy rain and whipping wind reduce
visibility and mobility, making the area under the
storm cloud difficult terrain and making everything
seen within or through the area concealed.
•	 Thunderclap Each creature in the storm must succeed
at a Fortitude save or be deafened for 10 minutes.
A creature that succeeds is temporarily immune to
thunderclaps from storm of vengeance for 1 hour.
Heightened (10th) The range increases to 2,200 feet, and the
cloud is a 1,000-foot burst.
SUBCONSCIOUS SUGGESTION
SPELL 5
ENCHANTMENT
INCAPACITATION
LINGUISTIC
MENTAL
Traditions arcane, occult
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal
Range 30 feet; Targets 1 creature
Saving Throw Will; Duration varies
You implant a subconscious suggestion deep within the target’s
mind for them to follow when a trigger you specify occurs (as
described on page 305). You suggest a course of action to the
target. Your directive must be phrased in such a way as to seem
like a logical course of action to the target, and it can’t be self-
destructive or obviously against the target’s self-interest. The
target must attempt a Will save.
Critical Success The target is unaffected and knows you tried
to control it.
Success The target is unaffected and thinks you were talking
to them normally, not casting a spell on them.
Failure The suggestion remains in the target’s subconscious
until the next time you prepare. If the trigger occurs before
then, the target immediately follows your suggestion. The
effect has a duration of 1 minute, or until the target has
completed a finite suggestion or the suggestion becomes
self-destructive or has other obvious negative effects.
Critical Failure As failure, but the duration is 1 hour.
Heightened (9th) You can target up to 10 creatures.
SUGGESTION
SPELL 4
ENCHANTMENT
INCAPACITATION
LINGUISTIC
MENTAL
Traditions arcane, occult
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal
Range 30 feet; Targets 1 creature
Saving Throw Will; Duration varies
Your honeyed words are difficult for creatures to resist. You
suggest a course of action to the target, which must be
phrased in such a way as to seem like a logical course of action
to the target and can’t be self‑destructive or obviously against
the target’s self-interest. The target must attempt a Will save.
Critical Success The target is unaffected and knows you tried
to control it.
Success The target is unaffected and thinks you were talking
to them normally, not casting a spell on them.
Core Rulebook
374
