into your foe. Make a melee Strike and add the spell’s damage
to the Strike’s damage. This is negative damage if you expended
a harm spell or positive damage if you expended a heal spell.
The spell is expended with no effect if your Strike fails or
hits a creature that isn’t damaged by that energy type (such as
if you hit a non-undead creature with a heal spell).
COMMAND UNDEAD [one-action]
FEAT 4
CLERIC
CONCENTRATE
METAMAGIC
Prerequisites harmful font, evil alignment
You grasp the animating force within an undead creature and
bend it to your will. If the next action you use is to cast harm
targeting one undead creature, you transform the effects of
that harm spell. Instead of harm’s normal effects, the target
becomes controlled by you if its level is equal to or lower than
your level – 3. It can attempt a Will saving throw to resist being
controlled by you. If the target is already under someone else’s
command, the controlling creature also rolls a saving throw,
and the undead uses the better result.
Critical Success The target is unaffected and is temporarily
immune for 24 hours.
Success The target is unaffected.
Failure The undead creature becomes a minion under your
control. The spell gains a duration of 1 minute, but it is
dismissed if you or an ally attacks the minion undead.
Critical Failure As failure, but the duration is 1 hour.
DIRECTED CHANNEL
FEAT 4
CLERIC
You can shape the energy you channel in a single direction,
reaching farther and in a more directed fashion. When you
cast a version of harm or heal that has an area, you can make
its area a 60-foot cone instead of a 30-foot emanation.
IMPROVED COMMUNAL HEALING
FEAT 4
CLERIC
Prerequisites Communal Healing
You can direct excess channeled energy outward to benefit
an ally. You can grant the Hit Points you would regain from
Communal Healing to any one creature within the range of
your heal spell instead of yourself. You can also use Communal
Healing when you target only yourself with a heal spell,
though if you do, you must grant the additional healing to
someone other than yourself.
NECROTIC INFUSION [one-action]
FEAT 4
CLERIC
CONCENTRATE
METAMAGIC
Prerequisites harmful font, evil alignment
You pour negative energy into your undead subject to
empower its attacks. If the next action you use is to cast harm
to restore Hit Points to a single undead creature, the target
then deals an additional 1d6 negative damage with its melee
weapons and unarmed attacks until the end of its next turn.
If the harm spell is at least 5th level, this damage increases
to 2d6, and if the harm spell is at least 8th level, the damage
increases to 3d6.
6TH LEVEL
CAST DOWN [one-action]
FEAT 6
CLERIC
CONCENTRATE
METAMAGIC
Prerequisites harmful font or healing font
The sheer force of your faith can bring a foe crashing down. If
the next action you use is to cast harm or heal to damage one
creature, the target is knocked prone if it takes any damage from
the spell. If the target critically fails its save against the spell, it
also takes a –10-foot status penalty to its Speed for 1 minute.
DIVINE WEAPON [free-action]
FEAT 6
CLERIC
Frequency once per turn
Trigger You finish Casting a Spell using one of your divine
spell slots on your turn.
You siphon residual spell energy into a weapon you’re
wielding. Until the end of your turn, the weapon deals an
additional 1d4 force damage. You can instead deal an additional
1d6 damage of an alignment type that matches one of your
deity’s alignment components. As usual for aligned damage,
this can damage only creatures of the opposite alignment.
SELECTIVE ENERGY
FEAT 6
CLERIC
As you call down divine power, you can prevent some enemies
from benefiting or some allies from being hurt. When you cast
a version of harm or heal that has an area, you can designate
a number of creatures equal to your Charisma modifier
(minimum 1) that are not targeted by the spell.
STEADY SPELLCASTING
FEAT 6
CLERIC
Confident in your technique, you don’t lose spells easily. If a
reaction would disrupt your spellcasting action, attempt a DC
15 flat check. If you succeed, your action isn’t disrupted.
8TH LEVEL
ADVANCED DOMAIN
FEAT 8
CLERIC
Prerequisites Domain Initiate
Your studies or prayers have unlocked deeper secrets of your
deity’s domain. You gain an advanced domain spell from one
CONTROLLING UNDEAD
Controlled undead gain the minion trait. Minions can use 2
actions per turn and can’t use reactions. A minion acts on your
turn in combat when you spend an action to issue it verbal
commands (this action has the auditory and concentrate
traits). If given no commands, undead minions use no actions
except to defend themselves or to escape obvious harm.
If left unattended for at least 1 minute, mindless undead
minions don’t act, and intelligent ones act as they please. You
can’t have more than four undead minions at a time.
123
3
CLASSES
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Skills
Feats
Equipment
Spells
The Age of
Lost OMENS
Playing the
Game
Game
mastering
Crafting
& Treasure
Appendix
