to another if you have spells from multiple sources. Spell
attack rolls can benefit from circumstance bonuses and
status bonuses, though item bonuses to spell attack rolls
are rare. Penalties affect spell attack rolls just like any
other attack roll—including your multiple attack penalty.
Many times, instead of requiring you to make a spell
attack roll, the spells you cast will require those within
the area or targeted by the spell to attempt a saving
throw against your Spell DC to determine how the spell
affects them.
Your spell DC is calculated using the following formula.
Spell DC = 10 + ability modifier used for
spellcasting + proficiency bonus + other bonuses +
penalties
Perception
Perception measures your ability to be aware of your
environment. Every creature has Perception, which works
with and is limited by a creature’s senses (described on
page 464). Whenever you need to attempt a check based
on your awareness, you’ll attempt a Perception check.
Your Perception uses your Wisdom modifier, so you’ll use
the following formula when attempting a Perception check.
Perception check result = d20 roll + Wisdom
modifier + proficiency bonus + other bonuses +
penalties
Nearly all creatures are at least trained in Perception, so
you will almost always add a proficiency bonus to your
Perception modifier. You might add a circumstance
bonus
for
advantageous
situations
or
environments, and typically get status bonuses
from spells or other magical effects. Items can
also grant you a bonus to Perception, typically
in a certain situation. For instance, a fine spyglass
grants a +1 item bonus to Perception when attempting
to see something a long distance away. Circumstance
penalties to Perception occur when an environment or
situation (such as fog) hampers your senses, while status
penalties typically come from conditions, spells, and magic
effects that foil the senses. You’ll rarely encounter item
penalties or untyped penalties for Perception.
Many abilities are compared to your Perception DC to
determine whether they succeed. Your Perception DC is
10 + your total Perception modifier.
Perception for Initiative
Often, you’ll roll a Perception check to determine your order
in initiative. When you do this, instead of comparing the
result against a DC, everyone in the encounter will compare
their results. The creature with the highest result acts first,
the creature with the second-highest result goes second, and
so on. Sometimes you may be called on to roll a skill check
for initiative instead, but you’ll compare results just as if
you had rolled Perception. The full rules for initiative are
found in the rules for encounter mode on page 468.
Saving Throws
There are three types of saving throws: Fortitude
saves, Reflex saves, and Will saves. In all
cases, saving throws measure your ability
to shrug off harmful effects in the form
of afflictions, damage, or conditions. You’ll
Core Rulebook
448
