days you spend are interrupted, you can return to finish
the item later, continuing where you left off. An example of
Crafting appears in the sidebar.
Critical Success Your attempt is successful. Each additional
day spent Crafting reduces the materials needed to complete
the item by an amount based on your level + 1 and your
proficiency rank in Crafting.
Success Your attempt is successful. Each additional day spent
Crafting reduces the materials needed to complete the item
by an amount based on your level and your proficiency rank.
Failure You fail to complete the item. You can salvage the raw
materials you supplied for their full value. If you want to try
again, you must start over.
Critical Failure You fail to complete the item. You ruin 10% of
the raw materials you supplied, but you can salvage the
rest. If you want to try again, you must start over.
Consumables and Ammunition
You can Craft items with the consumable trait in batches,
making up to four of the same item at once with a single
check. This requires you to include the raw materials
for all the items in the batch at the start, and you must
complete the batch all at once. You also Craft non-magical
ammunition in batches, using the quantity listed in Table
6–8: Ranged Weapons (typically 10).
Getting Formulas
You can gain access to the formulas for all common
items in Chapter 6: Equipment by purchasing a basic
crafter’s book (page 287). See the rules on page 293 for
information on how to acquire other formulas.
 IDENTIFY ALCHEMY
CONCENTRATE
EXPLORATION
SECRET
Requirements You have alchemist’s tools (page 287).
You can identify the nature of an alchemical item with 10 minutes
of testing using alchemist’s tools. If your attempt is interrupted
in any way, you must start over.
Success You identify the item and the means of activating it.
Failure You fail to identify the item but can try again.
Critical Failure You misidentify the item as another item of
the GM’s choice.
Deception (Cha)
You can trick and mislead others using disguises, lies, and
other forms of subterfuge.
CREATE A DIVERSION [one-action]
MENTAL
With a gesture, a trick, or some distracting words, you can
create a diversion that draws creatures’ attention elsewhere.
If you use a gesture or trick, this action gains the manipulate
trait. If you use distracting words, it gains the auditory and
linguistic traits.
Attempt a single Deception check and compare it to the
CRAFTING EXAMPLE
Ezren is a 5th-level wizard and an expert in Crafting. He
has a Crafting modifier of +13 and the Magical Crafting
feat. With 2 weeks of downtime ahead of him, he decides
to craft a striking rune, a 4th-level item. The GM secretly
chooses a DC of 19.
The item has a Price of 65 gp, so Ezren prepares 32 gp,
5 sp worth of raw materials. He has another 32 gp, 5 sp
worth of raw materials on hand. After spending 4 days
building and incanting spells, he rolls a 12 on his Crafting
check, for a result of 25. That’s a success! At this point,
Ezren can spend the additional 32 gp, 5 sp worth of
materials to complete the item immediately for 65 gp.
However, Ezren has 10 more days on his hands, so he
decides to spend additional time to complete the item.
Because he’s a 5th-level character and an expert at Crafting,
he reduces the amount he has to pay by 1 gp for each day
spent. After spending 10 days working, he reduces the cost
to complete the item from 65 gp to 55 gp. He spends the
remaining portion of its Price in materials, completes the
striking rune, and goes out on his next adventure. (He could
have stayed home to keep working on the striking rune,
eventually reducing the item’s total Price to just the half he
paid up front, but adventuring is far more lucrative!)
If Ezren’s Crafting check result were a 29 or higher, he’d
have gotten a critical success. In that case, he’d reduce the
remaining amount by 2 gp per day, lowering the amount
needed to complete the item after 10 additional days of
work to 45 gp.
Perception DCs of the creatures whose attention you’re trying
to divert. Whether or not you succeed, creatures you attempt
to divert gain a +4 circumstance bonus to their Perception DCs
against your attempts to Create a Diversion for 1 minute.
Success You become hidden to each creature whose
Perception DC is less than or equal to your result. (The
hidden condition allows you to Sneak away, as described
on page 252.) This lasts until the end of your turn or until
you do anything except Step or use the Hide or the Sneak
action of the Stealth skill (pages 251 and 252). If you Strike
a creature, the creature remains flat‑footed against that
attack, and you then become observed. If you do anything
else, you become observed just before you act unless the
GM determines otherwise.
Failure You don’t divert the attention of any creatures whose
Perception DC exceeds your result, and those creatures are
aware you were trying to trick them.
IMPERSONATE
CONCENTRATE
EXPLORATION
MANIPULATE
SECRET
You create a disguise to pass yourself off as someone or
something you are not. Assembling a convincing disguise takes
10 minutes and requires a disguise kit (found on page 290), but
a simpler, quicker disguise might do the job if you’re not trying
to imitate a specific individual, at the GM’s discretion.
4
Skills
245
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Skills
Feats
Equipment
Spells
The Age of
Lost OMENS
Playing the
Game
Game
mastering
Crafting
& Treasure
Appendix
