When you take on the role of Game Master, you’ll have
the rewarding job of crafting fun experiences for a group
of your friends. Your responsibilities include...
•	 Telling the story of the group’s adventures in a
compelling and consistent way.
•	 Fleshing out the world in which the game takes
place, emphasizing the fantastical while grounding
it enough in the real world to feel believable.
•	 Entertaining the players and yourself with novel
concepts, and rewarding creative ideas with
interesting outcomes.
•	 Preparing for game sessions by building or studying
adventures and creating characters and plots.
•	 Improvising the reactions of nonplayer characters
and other forces in the world as the players do
unexpected things.
•	 Making rules decisions to ensure fairness and keep
the game moving forward.
This chapter provides the tools you need to shoulder
those responsibilities. The following sections break
down the various components of a campaign, discuss the
different modes of play and how to set DCs for the tasks
the PCs attempt, provide different ways of rewarding
player characters, and describe aspects of the environment
that might affect an adventuring party.
Planning a Campaign
A Pathfinder game is typically structured as a campaign—a
serialized story that focuses on a single party of characters.
A campaign is subdivided into multiple adventures,
smaller stories that involve exploration and interaction
with nonplayer characters. A single adventure represents a
complete story that might be connected to the larger arc of
a campaign. Playing an adventure spans one or more game
sessions—gatherings where the group plays a part of the
adventure over the course of several hours.
A campaign provides the overall structure for your
Pathfinder game. As you prepare for your campaign, you’ll
establish its scope and themes, which you’ll then reinforce
in the adventures and scenes that take place within it.
CAMPAIGN LENGTH
The length of a campaign can range from a few sessions
to many years. Two main factors determine campaign
length: how much time you need to complete the story,
and how much time players want to devote to the game.
Chapter 10: Game Mastering
As Game Master, you run each session of Pathfinder, providing the link between the players
and the world of the game. It’s up to you to set the scene as the player characters battle
monsters, interact with other people, and explore the world.
COLLABORATION DURING PLAY
As Game Master, you have the final say on how the world
and rules function, and how nonplayer characters act.
This rule’s purpose is to make the game run smoothly,
with one guiding hand ensuring consistency. It’s not
intended to make one player into a dictator over the rest
of the group. Collaboration is vital to roleplaying games!
How you implement collaboration in a game depends
on what your players are interested in. In some groups,
players enjoy adding details to the world and to nonplayer
characters. In others, players want to feel like the world
is outside their control, and the only decisions they get to
make are those made by their own characters. Both are
fun and acceptable ways to play.
You are encouraged to collect input from your players
before you start, asking what storytelling genres they’d
like to emphasize, which areas of the world they want to
play in, the types of enemies they’d like to face, or which
published adventure they want to play. A good campaign
includes some back-and-forth at the beginning as the
players figure out what characters they want to play and
you figure out what sort of adventure to run. The results
can range from building an adventure entirely to fit the
characters to choosing a specific published adventure,
having the players make their characters, and then just
adapting the beginning of that adventure so that all the
player characters have a reason to be involved.
As you play, opportunities to collaborate will occur
again and again. When players throw out suggestions
or come up with specific theories about the events of
the campaign, they’re telling you what they’d like to
see in the game. Try to find ways to incorporate their
suggestions, but with enough of a twist that each still
includes something unexpected.
A single session, or a “one-shot,” is great if your group
is trying out Pathfinder or wants to play a specific short
adventure. This requires a smaller time commitment but
requires the GM to present the events of the game in a way
that is immediately engaging, since there’s less opportunity
for the players to become invested in the story or setting.
If you want to play through a longer campaign, you’ll
need to add some story elements that speak directly to the
characters in your game rather than just to the events of
the adventure. In other words, the characters should have
individual goals in addition to the group’s overall goals.
10
483
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Skills
Feats
Equipment
Spells
The Age of
Lost OMENS
Playing the
Game
Game
mastering
Crafting
& Treasure
Appendix
