to reflect their surroundings. Elves living in the forests and other wilderness locales
wear clothing that plays off the terrain and flora of their homes, while those who live
in cities tend to wear the latest fashions.
Elves reach physical adulthood around the age of 20, though they aren’t
considered to be fully emotionally mature by other elves until closer to the passing
of their first century, once they’ve experienced more, held several occupations, and
outlived a generation of shorter-lived people. A typical elf can live to around 600
years old.
Society
Elven culture is deep, rich, and on the decline. Their society peaked millennia ago,
long before they fled the world to escape a great calamity. They’ve since returned,
but rebuilding is no easy task. Their inborn patience and intellectual curiosity make
elves excellent sages, philosophers, and wizards, and their societies are built upon
their inherent sense of wonder and knowledge. Elven architecture displays their deep
appreciation of beauty, and elven cities are wondrous works of art.
Elves hold deeply seated ideals of individualism, allowing each elf to explore
multiple occupations before alighting on a particular pursuit or passion that suits
her best. Elves bear notorious grudges against rivals, which the elves call ilduliel, but
these antagonistic relationships can sometimes blossom into friendships over time.
Alignment and Religion
Elves are often emotional and capricious, yet they hold high ideals close to their
hearts. As such, many are chaotic good. They prefer deities who share their love of
all things mystic and artistic. Desna and Shelyn are particular favorites, the former
for her sense of wonder and the latter for her appreciation of artistry. Calistria is the
most notorious of elven deities, as she represents many of the elven ideals taken to
the extreme.
Names
An elf keeps their personal name secret among their family, while giving a nickname
when meeting other people. This nickname can change over time, due to events in
the elf’s life or even on a whim. A single elf might be known by many names by
associates of different ages and regions. Elven names consist of multiple syllables and
are meant to flow lyrically—at least in the Elven tongue. They so commonly end in
“-el” or “-ara” that other cultures sometimes avoid names ending in these syllables
to avoid sounding too elven.
Sample Names
Aerel, Amrunelara, Caladrel, Dardlara, Faunra, Heldalel, Jathal, Lanliss, Oparal,
Seldlon, Soumral, Talathel, Tessara, Variel, Yalandlara, Zordlon
Elf Heritages
Elves live long lives and adapt to their environment after dwelling there for a long
time. Choose one of the following elven heritages at 1st level.
Arctic Elf
You dwell deep in the frozen north and have gained incredible resilience against cold
environments, granting you cold resistance equal to half your level (minimum 1). You
treat environmental cold effects as if they were one step less extreme (incredible cold
becomes extreme, extreme cold becomes severe, and so on).
Cavern Elf
You were born or spent many years in underground tunnels or caverns where light
is scarce. You gain darkvision.
Hit Points
6
Size
Medium
Speed
30 feet
Ability Boosts
Dexterity
Intelligence
Free
Ability Flaw
Constitution
Languages
Common
Elven
Additional languages equal to
your Intelligence modifier (if it’s
positive). Choose from Celestial,
Draconic, Gnoll, Gnomish,
Goblin, Orcish, Sylvan, and
any other languages to which
you have access (such as
the languages prevalent in
your region).
Traits
Elf
Humanoid
Low-Light Vision
You can see in dim light as
though it were bright light,
so you ignore the concealed
condition due to dim light.
2
Ancestries & backgrounds
39
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Skills
Feats
Equipment
Spells
The Age of
Lost OMENS
Playing the
Game
Game
mastering
Crafting
& Treasure
Appendix
