Dropping into a roll to disperse the force of the blow, you can
partially evade a lethal attack and stay conscious. You take
half damage from the triggering attack.
INSTANT OPENING [one-action]
FEAT 14
CONCENTRATE
ROGUE
You distract your opponent with a few choice words or a rude
gesture. Choose a target within 30 feet. It’s flat-footed against
your attacks until the end of your next turn. Depending on the
way you describe your distraction, this action gains either the
auditory or visual trait.
LEAVE AN OPENING
FEAT 14
ROGUE
When you hit hard enough, you leave an opening so your
ally can jump in on the action. Whenever you critically hit a
flat‑footed opponent with a melee attack and deal damage, the
target triggers an Attack of Opportunity reaction from one ally
of your choice who has that reaction, as if the enemy had used
a manipulate action.
SENSE THE UNSEEN [reaction]
FEAT 14
ROGUE
Trigger You fail a check to Seek.
When you look for foes, you catch the slightest of cues. Even
though you failed at the triggering check, you automatically
sense any undetected creatures in the area where you’re
Seeking, making them merely hidden to you.
16TH LEVEL
BLANK SLATE
FEAT 16
ROGUE
Prerequisites legendary in Deception
Your deceptions confound even the most powerful mortal
divinations. Detection, revelation, and scrying effects pass
right over you, your possessions, and your auras, detecting
nothing unless the detecting effect has a counteract level of
20 or higher. For example, detect magic would still detect other
magic in the area but not any magic on you, true seeing wouldn’t
reveal you, locate or scrying wouldn’t find you, and so on.
CLOUD STEP
FEAT 16
ROGUE
Prerequisites legendary in Acrobatics
Using fantastic acrobatic skill, you can walk for brief stretches
across insubstantial surfaces. When you Stride, you can move
across water, air, and solid surfaces that can hold only limited
weight as if they were normal ground. If you Stride over a trap
with a weight-sensitive pressure plate, you don’t trigger it. At
the end of your turn, you sink, fall, break fragile surfaces, or
trigger traps as normal for your current location.
COGNITIVE LOOPHOLE [reaction]
FEAT 16
ROGUE
Trigger Your turn ends.
Success The target is slowed 1 until the end of your next turn.
Failure The target is slowed 2 until the end of your next turn.
Critical Failure The target is paralyzed until the end of your
next turn.
FANTASTIC LEAP [two-actions]
FEAT 12
ROGUE
You launch yourself through the air at a foe. Attempt a High
Jump or Long Jump. If you attempt a High Jump, determine the
distance you can travel using the scale of a Long Jump. At the
end of your jump, you can make a melee Strike.
After your Strike, you fall to the ground if you’re in the air.
If the distance of your fall is no more than the height of your
jump, you take no damage and land upright.
FELLING SHOT [two-actions]
FEAT 12
ROGUE
Your ranged attacks can shoot an unprepared foe right out
of the air. Make a Strike with a ranged weapon or a thrown
weapon against a flat-footed creature. If the Strike is a success
and deals damage, the target must attempt a Reflex save
against your class DC with the following effects.
Success The target is unaffected.
Failure The target falls up to 120 feet. If it hits the ground, it
takes no damage from the fall.
Critical Failure As failure, and the target can’t fly, jump, levitate,
or otherwise leave the ground until the end of your next turn.
REACTIVE INTERFERENCE [reaction]
FEAT 12
ROGUE
Trigger An adjacent enemy begins to use a reaction.
Grabbing a sleeve, swiping with your weapon, or creating
another obstruction, you reflexively foil an enemy’s
response. If the triggering creature’s level is equal to or
lower than yours, you disrupt the triggering reaction. If the
triggering creature’s level is higher than yours, you must
make an attack roll against its AC. On a success, you disrupt
the reaction.
SPRING FROM THE SHADOWS [one-action]
FEAT 12
FLOURISH
ROGUE
Leaping out from hiding, you assail your target when they least
expect it. You Stride up to your Speed, but you must end your
movement next to an enemy you’re hidden from or undetected
by. You then Strike that enemy; you remain hidden from or
undetected by that creature until after you Strike. You can use
Spring from the Shadows while Burrowing, Climbing, Flying, or
Swimming instead of Striding if you have the corresponding
movement type.
14TH LEVEL
DEFENSIVE ROLL [reaction[free-action]
FEAT 14
ROGUE
Frequency once per 10 minutes
Trigger A physical attack would reduce you to 0 Hit Points.
Core Rulebook
188
