Master Strikes
13th
You have honed your skill in using your body as a
weapon. Your proficiency ranks for unarmed attacks and
simple weapons increase to master.
Greater Weapon Specialization
15th
Your damage from weapon specialization increases to 4
with weapons and unarmed attacks in which you’re an
expert, 6 if you’re a master, and 8 if you’re legendary.
Third Path to Perfection 
15th
You have made great progress in your personal studies
of enlightenment. Choose one of the saving throws
you selected for path to perfection or second path to
perfection. Your proficiency rank for the chosen type
of save increases to legendary. When you roll a critical
failure on the chosen type of save, you get a failure
instead. When you fail at the chosen type of save against
an effect that deals damage, you take half damage.
score increases it by 1 if it’s already 18 or above, or by 2
if it starts out below 18.
Alertness
5th
You remain alert to threats around you. Your proficiency
rank for Perception increases to expert.
Ancestry Feats
5th
In addition to the ancestry feat you started with, you gain
an ancestry feat at 5th level and every 4 levels thereafter.
The list of ancestry feats available to you can be found in
your ancestry’s entry in Chapter 2.
Expert Strikes
5th
You’ve practiced martial arts and have now surpassed
your former skill. Your proficiency ranks for unarmed
attacks and simple weapons increase to expert.
Path to Perfection
7th
You have progressed along your own path to
enlightenment. Choose your Fortitude, Reflex, or Will
saving throw. Your proficiency rank for the chosen saving
throw increases to master. When you roll a success on the
chosen saving throw, you get a critical success instead.
Weapon Specialization
7th
You’ve learned how to inflict greater injuries with the
weapons you know best. You deal 2 additional damage
with weapons and unarmed attacks in which you are an
expert. This damage increases to 3 if you’re a master, and
4 if you’re legendary.
Metal Strikes
9th
You can adjust your body to make unarmed attacks
infused with the mystic energy of rare metals. Your
unarmed attacks are treated as cold iron and silver.
This allows you to deal more damage to a variety of
supernatural creatures, such as demons, devils, and fey.
Monk Expertise
9th
Your proficiency rank for your monk class DC increases
to expert. If you have ki spells, your proficiency rank for
spell attacks and spell DCs with the tradition of magic
you use for your ki spells increases to expert.
Second Path to Perfection
11th
You’ve learned to find perfection in every success. Choose
a different saving throw than the one you chose for your
path to perfection. Your proficiency rank for the chosen
saving throw increases to master. If you roll a success with
the chosen saving throw, you instead critically succeed.
Graceful Mastery
13th
You move with perpetual grace in battle, eluding and
turning aside blows. Your proficiency rank for unarmored
defense increases to master.
KEY TERMS
You’ll see the following key terms in many monk abilities.
Flourish: Actions with this trait are special techniques
that require too much exertion for you to perform frequently.
You can use only 1 action with the flourish trait per turn.
Incapacitation: An ability with this trait can take a
character out of the fight. But when you use an incapacitation
effect against a creature of higher level than you, you reduce
the degree of success of your attack roll by one step, and
that creature improves the degree of success of its saving
throws for that effect by one step.
Ki Spells: By tapping into a supernatural inner reserve
called ki, you can create magical effects. Certain feats grant
you special spells called ki spells, which are a type of focus
spell. It costs 1 Focus Point to cast a focus spell. When you
gain your first ki spell, you also gain a focus pool of 1 Focus
Point. You refill your focus pool during your daily preparations,
and you regain 1 Focus Point by spending 10 minutes using
the Refocus activity to meditate in order to reach inner peace.
When you first gain a ki spell, decide whether your ki
spells are divine spells or occult spells. You become trained
in spell attacks and spell DCs of that tradition.
Focus spells are automatically heightened to half your
level rounded up. Taking feats can give you more focus
spells and increase the size of your focus pool, though your
focus pool can never hold more than 3 points. The full rules
for focus spells appear on page 300.
Stance: A stance is a general combat strategy that you
enter by using an action with the stance trait, and that
you remain in for some time. A stance lasts until you get
knocked out, until its requirements (if any) are violated,
until the encounter ends, or until you enter a new stance,
whichever comes first. After you take an action that has
the stance trait, you can’t take another one for 1 round. You
can enter or be in a stance only in encounter mode.
157
3
CLASSES
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Skills
Feats
Equipment
Spells
The Age of
Lost OMENS
Playing the
Game
Game
mastering
Crafting
& Treasure
Appendix
