Some spells and effects have traits such as “mental” or
“good.” These tell you more about the spell and how it works,
and other rules might reference them. A creature might, for
example, have a –2 circumstance penalty to saving throws
against mental effects. Below is a glossary of a few traits
you might see with important rules.
Auditory
Auditory spells rely on sound. A spell with the auditory trait
has its effect only if the target can hear it. This is different
from a sonic effect, which still affects targets who can’t hear
it (such as deaf targets) as long as the effect makes sound.
Darkness and Light
Effects with the darkness and light traits interact in specific
ways. Non-magical light always shines in non-magical
darkness and always fails to shine in magical darkness.
Magical light always shines in non-magical darkness but
shines in magical darkness only if the light spell has a higher
level than that of the darkness effect. Spells with the darkness
trait or the light trait can always counteract one another, but
bringing light and darkness into contact doesn’t automatically
do so. You must usually cast a light spell on a darkness effect
directly to counteract it (and vice versa), but some spells
automatically attempt to counteract opposing effects.
Incapacitation
An ability with this trait can take a character completely out
of the fight or even kill them, and it’s harder to use on a more
powerful character. If a spell has the incapacitation trait, any
creature of more than twice the spell’s level treats the result
of their check to prevent being incapacitated as one degree of
success better or the result of any check the spellcaster made
to incapacitate them as one degree of success worse. If any
other effect has the incapacitation trait, a creature of higher
level than the item, creature, or hazard generating the effect
gains the same benefits.
Minion
Minions are creatures that directly serve another creature.
A creature with this trait can use only 2 actions per turn
and can’t use reactions. Your minion acts on your turn in
combat, once per turn, when you spend an action to issue
it commands. For an animal companion, you Command
an Animal; for a minion that’s a spell or magic item effect
like a summoned minion you Sustain a Spell or Sustain
an Activation; and if not otherwise specified, you issue a
verbal command, which is a single action with the auditory
and concentrate traits. If given no commands, by default
minions use no actions except to defend themselves or to
escape obvious harm. If left unattended for long enough,
typically 1 minute, mindless minions usually don’t act,
animals often indulge their creature comforts, and sapient
minions act how they please.
Morph
Spells that slightly alter a creature’s form have the morph
trait. Any Strikes specifically granted by a morph effect are
magical. You can be affected by multiple morph spells at once,
but if you morph the same body part more than once, the
second morph effect attempts to counteract the first (in the
same manner as two polymorph effects, described below).
Your morph effects might also end if you are polymorphed
and the polymorph effect invalidates or overrides your morph
effect. For instance, a morph that gave you wings would be
dismissed if you polymorphed into a form that had wings of
its own (though if your new form lacked wings, you’d keep
the wings from your morph). The GM determines which
morph effects can be used together and which can’t.
Polymorph
These effects transform the target into a new form. A target
can’t be under the effect of more than one polymorph effect
at a time. If it comes under the effect of a second polymorph
effect, the second polymorph effect attempts to counteract
the first. If it succeeds, it takes effect, and if it fails, the
spell has no effect on that target. Any Strikes specifically
granted by a polymorph effect are magical. Unless otherwise
stated, polymorph spells don’t allow the target to take on the
appearance of a specific individual creature, but rather just a
generic creature of a general type or ancestry.
If you take on a battle form with a polymorph spell, the
special statistics can be adjusted only by circumstance bonuses,
status bonuses, and penalties. Unless otherwise noted, the
battle form prevents you from casting spells, speaking, and
using most manipulate actions that require hands. (If there’s
doubt about whether you can use an action, the GM decides.)
Your gear is absorbed into you; the constant abilities of your
gear still function, but you can’t activate any items.
Summoned
A creature called by a conjuration spell or effect gains the
summoned trait. A summoned creature can’t summon other
creatures, create things of value, or cast spells that require a
cost. It has the minion trait. If it tries to cast a spell of equal
or higher level than the spell that summoned it, the spell fails
and the summon spell ends. Otherwise, it uses the standard
abilities for a creature of its kind. It generally attacks your
enemies to the best of its abilities. If you can communicate
with it, you can attempt to command it, but the GM
determines the degree to which it follows your commands.
Immediately when you finish Casting the Spell, the
summoned creature uses its 2 actions for that turn.
Summoned creatures can be banished by various spells
and effects. They are automatically banished if reduced to 0
Hit Points or if the spell that called them ends.
Visual
A visual spell can affect only creatures that can see it.
OTHER SPELL TRAITS
301
7
SPELLS
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Skills
Feats
Equipment
Spells
The Age of
Lost OMENS
Playing the
Game
Game
mastering
Crafting
& Treasure
Appendix
