action to perform; these are often special abilities from your
character’s class and feats. One common activity in the game
is casting a spell, which usually uses two actions.
Free actions, such as dropping an object, don’t count
toward the three actions you can take on your turn. Finally,
each character can use up to one reaction during a round.
This special type of action can be used even when it’s not
your turn, but only in response to certain events, and only
if you have an ability that allows it. Rogues, for example,
can select a feat that lets them use their reaction to dodge
an incoming attack.
Attacking another creature is one of the most common
actions in combat, and is done by using the Strike action.
This requires an attack roll—a kind of check made against
the Armor Class (AC) of the creature you’re attacking.
Strikes can be made using weapons, spells, or even parts
of a creature’s body, like a fist, claw, or tail. You add a
modifier to this roll based on your proficiency rank with
the type of attack you’re using, your ability scores, and
any other bonuses or penalties based on the situation.
The target’s AC is calculated using their proficiency rank
in the armor they’re wearing and their Dexterity modifier.
An attack deals damage if it hits, and rolling a critical
success results in the attack dealing double damage!
You can use more than one Strike action on your turn,
but each additional attack after the first becomes less
accurate. This is reflected by a multiple attack penalty
that starts at –5 on the second attack, but increases to –10
on the third. There are many ways to reduce this penalty,
and it resets at the end of your turn.
If your character finds themself the target of a magical
lightning bolt or the freezing breath of a fearsome white
dragon, you will be called on to attempt a saving throw,
representing your character’s ability to avoid danger or
otherwise withstand an assault to their mind or body. A
saving throw is a check attempted against the DC of the
spell or special ability targeting your character. There are
three types of saving throws, and a character’s proficiency
in each says a great deal about what they can endure. A
Fortitude saving throw is used when your character’s health
or vitality is under attack, such as from poison or disease.
A Reflex saving throw is called for when your character
must dodge away from danger, usually something that
affects a large area, such as the scorching blast of a fireball
spell. Finally, a Will saving throw is often your defense
against spells and effects that target your character’s mind,
such as a charm or confusion spell. For all saving throws,
a success lessens the harmful effect, and scoring a critical
success usually means your character escapes unscathed.
Attacks, spells, hazards, and special abilities frequently
either deal damage to a character or impose one or more
conditions—and sometimes both. Damage is subtracted
from a creature’s Hit Points (HP)—a measure of health—
and when a creature is reduced to 0 HP, it falls unconscious
and may die! A combat encounter typically lasts until one
side has been defeated, and while this can mean retreat or
Introduction
1
11
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Skills
Feats
Equipment
Spells
The Age of
Lost OMENS
Playing the
Game
Game
mastering
Crafting
& Treasure
Appendix
