A
APPENDIX
623
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Skills
Feats
Equipment
Spells
The Age of
Lost OMENS
Playing the
Game
Game
mastering
Crafting
& Treasure
Appendix
to several hours. If you receive healing during this time,
you lose the unconscious condition and can act normally
on your next turn.
If you’re unconscious and have more than 1 Hit Point
(typically because you are asleep or unconscious due to
an effect), you wake up in one of the following ways.
Each causes you to lose the unconscious condition.
• You take damage, provided the damage doesn’t
reduce you to 0 Hit Points. If the damage reduces
you to 0 Hit Points, you remain unconscious and
gain the dying condition as normal.
• You receive healing, other than the natural healing
you get from resting.
• Someone shakes you awake with an Interact action.
• There’s loud noise going on around you—though
this isn’t automatic. At the start of your turn, you
automatically attempt a Perception check against
the noise’s DC (or the lowest DC if there is more
than one noise), waking up if you succeed. If
creatures are attempting to stay quiet around you,
this Perception check uses their Stealth DCs. Some
magical effects make you sleep so deeply that they
don’t allow you to attempt this Perception check.
• If you are simply asleep, the GM decides you wake
up either because you have had a restful night’s
sleep or something disrupted that rest.
Undetected
When you are undetected by a creature, that creature
cannot see you at all, has no idea what space you occupy,
and can’t target you, though you still can be affected by
abilities that target an area. When you’re undetected by a
creature, that creature is flat-footed to you.
A creature you’re undetected by can guess which square
you’re in to try targeting you. It must pick a square and
attempt an attack. This works like targeting a hidden
creature (requiring a DC 11 flat check, as described on
page 466), but the flat check and attack roll are rolled in
secret by the GM, who doesn’t reveal whether the attack
missed due to failing the flat check, failing the attack roll,
or choosing the wrong square.
A creature can use the Seek action to try to find you, as
described on page 471.
Unfriendly
This condition reflects a creature’s disposition toward
a particular character, and it affects only creatures that
are not player characters. A creature that is unfriendly
to a character dislikes and specifically distrusts that
character. The unfriendly creature won’t accept Requests
from the character.
Unnoticed
If you are unnoticed by a creature, that creature has no
idea you are present at all. When you’re unnoticed, you’re
also undetected by the creature. This condition matters
for abilities that can be used only against targets totally
unaware of your presence.
Wounded
You have been seriously injured. If you lose the dying
condition and do not already have the wounded
condition, you become wounded 1. If you already
have the wounded condition when you lose the dying
condition, your wounded condition value increases by 1.
If you gain the dying condition while wounded, increase
your dying condition value by your wounded value.
The wounded condition ends if someone successfully
restores Hit Points to you with Treat Wounds, or if you
are restored to full Hit Points and rest for 10 minutes.
REDUNDANT CONDITIONS
You can have a given condition only once at a time. If
an effect would impose a condition you already have,
you now have that condition for the longer of the two
durations. The shorter-duration condition effectively
ends, though other conditions caused by the original,
shorter-duration effect might continue.
For example, let’s say you have been hit by a monster
that drains your vitality; your wound causes you to be
enfeebled 2 and flat-footed until the end of the monster’s
next turn. Before the end of that creature’s next turn, a
trap poisons you, making you enfeebled 2 for 1 minute. In
this case, the enfeebled 2 that lasts for 1 minute replaces
the enfeebled 2 from the monster, so you would be
enfeebled 2 for the longer duration. You would remain
flat-footed, since nothing replaced that condition, and it
still lasts only until the end of the monster’s next turn.
Any ability that removes a condition removes it
entirely, no matter what its condition value is or how
many times you’ve been affected by it. In the example
above, a spell that removes the enfeebled condition from
you would remove it entirely—the spell wouldn’t need to
remove it twice.
Redundant Conditions with Values
Conditions with different values are considered different
conditions. If you’re affected by a condition with a
value multiple times, you apply only the highest value,
although you might have to track both durations if one
has a lower value but lasts longer. For example, if you
had a slowed 2 condition that lasts 1 round and a slowed
1 condition that lasts for 6 rounds, you’d be slowed 2 for
the first round, and then you’d change to slowed 1 for
the remaining 5 rounds of the second effect’s duration. If
something reduces the condition value, it reduces it for
all conditions of that name affecting you. For instance, in
this example above, if something reduced your slowed
value by 1, it would reduce the first condition from the
example to slowed 1 and reduce the second to slowed 0,
removing it.
