SAMPLE DRUID
by an ongoing effect of the spell, such as the wall created by
wall of fire. A creature’s immunities are unaffected.
PLANT SHAPE
FEAT 10
DRUID
Prerequisites leaf order or Wild Shape
You can take the form of a plant creature. Add the forms
listed in plant form to your wild shape list; if you don’t
have wild shape, you can instead cast plant form once
per day, heightened to the highest spell level you can
cast. Whenever you’re polymorphed into another form
using wild shape, you gain resistance 5 to poison.
SIDE BY SIDE
FEAT 10
DRUID
Prerequisites Animal Companion
You and your animal companion fight in tandem, distracting
your foes and keeping them off balance. Whenever you and
your animal companion are adjacent to the same foe, you are
both flanking that foe with each other, regardless of your
actual positions.
12TH LEVEL
DRAGON SHAPE
FEAT 12
DRUID
Prerequisites Soaring Shape
You can take on the form of some of the world’s most fearsome
creatures. Add the forms listed in dragon form to your wild
shape list. Whenever you’re polymorphed into another form
using wild shape, you gain resistance 5 to your choice of acid,
cold, electricity, fire, or poison.
GREEN TONGUE
FEAT 12
DRUID
Prerequisites Green Empathy
You share a special kinship with all things green and living.
You (and your leshy familiar, if you have one) are constantly
under the effects of speak with plants. Most non-creature
plants recognize you as a druid of the leaf order and are
friendly to you.
PRIMAL FOCUS
FEAT 12
DRUID
Your connection to nature is particularly strong, and the
spirits of nature flock around you, helping you replenish your
focus. If you have spent at least 2 Focus Points since the last
time you Refocused, you recover 2 Focus Points when you
Refocus instead of 1.
PRIMAL SUMMONS
FEAT 12
DRUID
Prerequisites Call of the Wild
Whenever you summon an ally, you can empower it with
the elemental power of air, earth, fire, or water. You gain the
primal summons order spell.
LEAF DRUID
You’re a nurturing caretaker in tune with the
natural world and the magic of life. A little plant
creature called a leshy accompanies you.
ABILITY SCORES
Prioritize Wisdom. Take Dexterity and Constitution for
your defenses, and Charisma to be more diplomatic or
Strength if you want to deal more damage in melee.
SKILLS
Diplomacy, Medicine, Nature, Survival
ORDER
Leaf
FEATS
Call of the Wild (2nd), Woodland Stride (4th), Green
Empathy (6th), Plant Shape (10th), Green Tongue (12th)
PREPARED SPELLS
1st heal, summon plants and fungi; Cantrips detect magic,
know direction, light, stabilize, tanglefoot
Core Rulebook
138
