SPELLS AND
SPELLCASTING
Most classes can learn to cast a
few focus spells, but the bard,
cleric, druid, sorcerer, and wizard
all gain spellcasting—the ability
to cast a wide variety of spells.
If your character’s class grants
spells, you should take time
during Step 7 to learn about the
spells they know and how to
cast them. The fourth page of the
character sheet provides space
to note your character’s magic
tradition and their proficiency
rank for spell attack rolls and
spell DCs. It also gives ample
space to record the spells in
your character’s repertoire or
spellbook, or that you prepare
frequently. Each class determines
which spells a character can
cast, how they are cast, and how
many they can cast in a day,
but the spells themselves and
detailed rules for spellcasting are
located in Chapter 7.
8
Step 8
Buy Equipment
At 1st level, your character has 15 gold pieces (150 silver pieces) to spend on
armor, weapons, and other basic equipment. Your character’s class lists the types
of weapons and armor with which they are trained (or better!). Their weapons
determine how much damage they deal in combat, and their armor influences their
Armor Class; these calculations are covered in more detail in Step 10. Don’t forget
essentials such as food and traveling gear! For more on the available equipment and
how much it costs, see Chapter 6.
CHARACTER SHEET
Once you’ve spent your character’s starting wealth, calculate any remaining gp, sp,
and cp they might still have and write those amounts in Inventory on the second
page. Record your character’s weapons in the Melee Strikes and Ranged Strikes
sections of the first page, depending on the weapon, and the rest of their equipment
in the Inventory section on your character sheet’s second page. You’ll calculate
specific numbers for melee Strikes and ranged Strikes with the weapons in Step 9
and for AC when wearing that armor in Step 10.
9
Step 9
Calculate Modifiers
With most of the big decisions for your character made, it’s time to calculate the
modifiers for each of the following statistics. If your proficiency rank for a statistic is
trained, expert, master, and legendary, your bonus equals your character’s level plus
another number based on the rank (2, 4, 6, and 8, respectively). If your character is
untrained, your proficiency bonus is +0.
Perception
Your character’s Perception modifier measures how alert they are. This modifier is
equal to their proficiency bonus in Perception plus their Wisdom modifier. For more
about Perception, see page 448.
Saving Throws
For each kind of saving throw, add your character’s Fortitude, Reflex, or Will
proficiency bonus (as appropriate) plus the ability modifier associated with that
kind of saving throw. For Fortitude saving throws, use your character’s Constitution
modifier. For Reflex saving throws, use your character’s Dexterity modifier. For Will
saving throws, use your character’s Wisdom modifier. Then add in any bonuses or
penalties from abilities, feats, or items that always apply (but not modifiers, bonuses,
or penalties that apply only in certain situations). Record this number on the line for
that saving throw.
Melee Strikes and Ranged Strikes
Next to where you’ve written your character’s melee and ranged weapons, calculate
the modifier to Strike with each weapon and how much damage that Strike deals. The
modifier for a Strike is equal to your character’s proficiency bonus with the weapon plus
an ability modifier (usually Strength for melee Strikes and Dexterity for ranged Strikes).
You also add any item bonus from the weapon and any other permanent bonuses or
penalties. You also need to calculate how much damage each weapon’s Strike deals.
Melee weapons usually add your character’s Strength modifier to damage rolls, while
ranged weapons might add some or all of your character’s Strength modifier, depending
on the weapon’s traits. See the weapon entries in Chapter 6 for more information.
Introduction
1
27
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Skills
Feats
Equipment
Spells
The Age of
Lost OMENS
Playing the
Game
Game
mastering
Crafting
& Treasure
Appendix
