SAMPLE ROGUE
SCOUT’S WARNING [free-action]
FEAT 4
ROGUE
Trigger You are about to roll a Perception or Survival check
for initiative.
You visually or audibly warn your allies of danger, granting
them each a +1 circumstance bonus to their initiative rolls.
Depending on whether you use gestures or call out, this action
gains either the visual or auditory trait, respectively.
6TH LEVEL
GANG UP
FEAT 6
ROGUE
You and your allies harry an opponent in concert. Any enemy is
flat-footed against your melee attacks due to flanking as long as
the enemy is within both your reach and your ally’s. Your allies
must still flank an enemy for it to be flat-footed to them.
LIGHT STEP
FEAT 6
ROGUE
You aren’t bothered by tricky footing. When you Stride or Step,
you can ignore difficult terrain.
SKIRMISH STRIKE [one-action]
FEAT 6
FLOURISH
ROGUE
Your feet and weapon move in tandem. Either Step and then
Strike, or Strike and then Step.
TWIST THE KNIFE [one-action]
FEAT 6
ROGUE
Requirements Your last action was a melee Strike that dealt
sneak attack damage to a flat-footed target.
After stabbing your opponent in a weak spot, you tear the
wound open. You deal persistent bleed damage to the target
equal to your number of sneak attack damage dice.
8TH LEVEL
BLIND-FIGHT
FEAT 8
ROGUE
Prerequisites master in Perception
Your battle instincts make you more aware of concealed and
invisible opponents. You don’t need to succeed at a flat check to
target concealed creatures. You’re not flat-footed to creatures
that are hidden from you (unless you’re flat-footed to them for
reasons other than the hidden condition), and you need only a
successful DC 5 flat check to target a hidden creature.
While you’re adjacent to an undetected creature of your
level or lower, it is instead only hidden from you.
DELAY TRAP [reaction]
FEAT 8
ROGUE
Trigger A trap within your reach is triggered.
You can jam the workings of a trap to delay its effects. Attempt
a Thievery check to Disable a Device on the trap; the DC to do
so is increased by 5, and the effects are as follows.
THIEF
Furtive and swift, you pick locks, find secret doors
and traps, and collect all the best loot.
ABILITY SCORES
Prioritize Dexterity. Constitution improves your health and
Wisdom helps you notice traps.
SKILLS
Acrobatics, Arcana, Athletics, Crafting, Deception,
Diplomacy, Society, Stealth, Thievery
ROGUE’S RACKET
Thief
STARTING FEAT
Nimble Dodge
HIGHER-LEVEL FEATS
Quick Draw (2nd), Skirmish Strike (6th), Sneak Savant (10th),
Spring from the Shadows (12th), Implausible Infiltration (18th)
Core Rulebook
186
