BOUNTY HUNTER
BACKGROUND
Bringing in lawbreakers lined your pockets. Maybe you had an
altruistic motive and sought to bring in criminals to make the
streets safer, or maybe the coin was motivation enough. Your
techniques for hunting down criminals transfer easily to the
life of an adventurer.
Choose two ability boosts. One must be to Strength or
Wisdom, and one is a free ability boost.
You’re trained in the Survival skill and the Legal Lore skill.
You gain the Experienced Tracker skill feat.
CHARLATAN
BACKGROUND
You traveled from place to place, peddling false fortunes and
snake oil in one town, pretending to be royalty in exile to seduce
a wealthy heir in the next. Becoming an adventurer might be
your next big scam or an attempt to put your talents to use for a
greater cause. Perhaps it’s a bit of both, as you realize that after
pretending to be a hero, you’ve become the mask.
Choose two ability boosts. One must be to Intelligence or
Charisma, and one is a free ability boost.
You’re trained in the Deception skill and the Underworld
Lore skill. You gain the Charming Liar skill feat.
CRIMINAL
BACKGROUND
As an unscrupulous independent or as a member of an
underworld organization, you lived a life of crime. You might
have become an adventurer to seek redemption, to escape the
law, or simply to get access to bigger and better loot.
Choose two ability boosts. One must be to Dexterity or
Intelligence, and one is a free ability boost.
You’re trained in the Stealth skill and the Underworld Lore
skill. You gain the Experienced Smuggler skill feat.
DETECTIVE
BACKGROUND
You solved crimes as a police inspector or took jobs for
wealthy clients as a private investigator. You might have
become an adventurer as part of your next big mystery,
but likely it was due to the consequences or aftermath of
a prior case.
Choose two ability boosts. One must be to Intelligence or
Wisdom, and one is a free ability boost.
You’re trained in the Society skill and the Underworld Lore
skill. You gain the Streetwise skill feat.
EMISSARY
BACKGROUND
As a diplomat or messenger, you traveled to lands far and
wide. Communicating with new people and forming alliances
were your stock and trade.
Choose two ability boosts. One must be to Intelligence or
Charisma, and one is a free ability boost.
You’re trained in the Society skill and a Lore skill related
to one city you’ve visited often. You gain the Multilingual
skill feat.
ENTERTAINER
BACKGROUND
Through an education in the arts or sheer dogged practice,
2
Ancestries & backgrounds
61
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Skills
Feats
Equipment
Spells
The Age of
Lost OMENS
Playing the
Game
Game
mastering
Crafting
& Treasure
Appendix
