This benefit lasts until the weapon is removed from the
creature. An adjacent creature or the target can remove the
weapon with 2 Interact actions.
SHATTER DEFENSES [one-action]
FEAT 6
FIGHTER
PRESS
Requirements A frightened creature is in your melee reach.
Your offense exploits your enemy’s fear. Make a melee Strike
against a frightened creature. If you hit and deal damage, the
target becomes flat-footed until its frightened condition ends.
If the target was already flat-footed to you when you damaged
it with this Strike, it can’t reduce its frightened value below 1
until the start of your next turn.
SHIELD WARDEN
FEAT 6
FIGHTER
Prerequisites shield block
You use your shield to protect your allies. When you have a
shield raised, you can use your Shield Block reaction when
an attack is made against an ally adjacent to you. If you do,
the shield prevents that ally from taking damage instead of
preventing you from taking damage, following the normal
rules for Shield Block.
TRIPLE SHOT
FEAT 6
FIGHTER
Prerequisites Double Shot
You can quickly fire multiple shots with greater control. When
you use Double Shot, you can make the attacks against the
same target. You can add an additional action to Double Shot
to make three ranged Strikes instead of two. If you do, the
penalty is –4. All attacks count toward your multiple attack
penalty, but the penalty doesn’t increase until after you’ve
made all of them.
8TH LEVEL
BLIND-FIGHT
FEAT 8
FIGHTER
Prerequisites master in Perception
Your battle instincts make you more aware of concealed
and invisible opponents. You don’t need to succeed at a flat
check to target concealed creatures. You’re not flat-footed
to creatures that are hidden from you (unless you’re flat-
footed to them for reasons other than the hidden condition),
and you need only a successful DC 5 flat check to target a
hidden creature.
While you’re adjacent to an undetected creature of your
level or lower, it is instead only hidden from you.
DUELING RIPOSTE [reaction]
FEAT 8
FIGHTER
Prerequisites Dueling Parry
Trigger A creature within your reach critically fails a Strike
against you.
Requirements You are benefiting from Dueling Parry.
You riposte against your flailing enemy. Make a melee Strike
against or attempt to Disarm the triggering creature.
FELLING STRIKE [two-actions]
FEAT 8
FIGHTER
Your attack can ground an airborne foe. Make a Strike. If it
hits and deals damage to a flying target, the target falls up to
120 feet. The fall is gradual enough that if it causes the target
to hit the ground, the target takes no damage from the fall. If
the attack is a critical hit, the target can’t Fly, Leap, levitate,
or otherwise leave the ground until the end of your next turn.
INCREDIBLE AIM [two-actions]
FEAT 8
CONCENTRATE
FIGHTER
By spending a moment to focus, you can ensure your attack
strikes true. Make a ranged weapon Strike. On this Strike, you
gain a +2 circumstance bonus to the attack roll and ignore the
target’s concealed condition.
MOBILE SHOT STANCE [one-action]
FEAT 8
FIGHTER
STANCE
Your shots become nimble and deadly. While you’re in this
stance, your ranged Strikes don’t trigger Attacks of Opportunity
or other reactions that are triggered by a ranged attack.
If you have Attack of Opportunity, you can use it with a
loaded ranged weapon you’re wielding. The triggering creature
must be within 5 feet of you for you to do so.
POSITIONING ASSAULT [two-actions]
FEAT 8
FIGHTER
FLOURISH
Requirements You are wielding a two-handed melee weapon
and your target is within your reach.
With punishing blows, you force your opponent into position.
Make a Strike with the required weapon. If you hit, you move
the target 5 feet into a space in your reach. This follows the
forced movement rules found on page 475.
QUICK SHIELD BLOCK 
FEAT 8
FIGHTER
Prerequisites shield block, Reactive Shield
You can bring your shield into place with hardly a thought. At
the start of each of your turns, you gain an additional reaction
that you can use only to Shield Block.
SUDDEN LEAP [two-actions]
FEAT 8
FIGHTER
You make an impressive leap and swing while you soar. Make
a Leap, High Jump, or Long Jump and attempt one melee Strike
at any point during your jump. Immediately after the Strike,
you fall to the ground if you’re in the air, even if you haven’t
reached the maximum distance of your jump. If the distance
you fall is no more than the height of your jump, you take no
damage and land upright.
When attempting a High Jump or Long Jump during a
Sudden Leap, determine the DC using the Long Jump DCs, and
increase your maximum distance to double your Speed.
149
3
CLASSES
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Skills
Feats
Equipment
Spells
The Age of
Lost OMENS
Playing the
Game
Game
mastering
Crafting
& Treasure
Appendix
