corner of a square within the range of the effect, spreading
in all directions to a specified radius. For instance, when
you cast fireball, it detonates at the corner of a square
within 500 feet of you and creates a 20-foot burst, meaning
it extends out 20 feet in every direction from the corner of
the square you chose, affecting each creature whose space
(or even one square of its space) is within the burst.
Cone
A cone shoots out from you in a quarter circle on the grid.
When you aim a cone, the first square of that cone must
share an edge with your space if you’re aiming orthogonally,
or it must touch a corner of your space if you’re aiming
diagonally. If you’re Large or larger, the first square can
run along the edge of any square of your space. You can’t
aim a cone so that it overlaps your space. The cone extends
out for a number of feet, widening as it goes, as shown in
the Areas diagram. For instance, when a green dragon uses
its breath weapon, it breathes a cone of poisonous gas that
originates at the edge of one square of its space and affects
a quarter-circle area 30 feet on each edge.
If you make a cone originate from someone or
something else, follow these same rules, with the first
square of the cone using an edge or corner of that creature
or object’s space instead of your own.
Emanation
An emanation issues forth from each side of your space,
extending out to a specified number of feet in all directions.
For instance, the bless spell’s emanation radiates 5 or more
feet outward from the caster. Because the sides of a target’s
space are used as the starting point for the emanation, an
emanation from a Large or larger creature affects a greater
overall area than that of a Medium or smaller creature.
Line
A line shoots forth from you in a straight line in a direction
of your choosing. The line affects each creature whose
space it overlaps. Unless a line effect says otherwise, it is
5 feet wide. For example, the lightning bolt spell’s area is
a 60-foot line that’s 5 feet wide.
Line of Effect
When creating an effect, you usually need an unblocked
path to the target of a spell, the origin point of an effect’s
area, or the place where you create something with a spell
or other ability. This is called a line of effect. You have line
of effect unless a creature is entirely behind a solid physical
barrier. Visibility doesn’t matter for line of effect, nor do
portcullises and other barriers that aren’t totally solid. If
you’re unsure whether a barrier is solid enough, usually
a 1-foot-square gap is enough to maintain a line of effect,
though the GM makes the final call.
In an area effect, creatures or targets must have line of
effect to the point of origin to be affected. If there’s no
line of effect between the origin of the area and the target,
the effect doesn’t apply to that target. For example, if
there’s a solid wall between the origin of a fireball and
a creature that’s within the burst radius, the wall blocks
the effect—that creature is unaffected by the fireball and
doesn’t need to attempt a save against it. Likewise, any
ongoing effects created by an ability with an area cease
to affect anyone who moves outside of the line of effect.
Line of Sight
Some effects require you to have line of sight to your target.
As long as you can precisely sense the area (as described
in Perception on page 464) and it is not blocked by a
solid barrier (as described in Cover on pages 476–477),
you have line of sight. An area of darkness prevents line
of sight if you don’t have darkvision, but portcullises and
other obstacles that aren’t totally solid do not. If you’re
unsure whether a barrier is solid enough to block line of
sight, usually a 1-foot-square gap is enough to maintain
line of sight, though the GM makes the final call.
Afflictions
Diseases and poisons are types of afflictions, as are curses
and radiation. An affliction can infect a creature for a long
time, progressing through different and often increasingly
debilitating stages. The level of an affliction is the level of
the monster, hazard, or item causing the affliction or, in the
case of a spell, is listed in the affliction entry for that spell.
Format
Whether appearing in a spell, as an item, or within a creature’s
stat block, afflictions appear in the following format.
Name and Traits
The affliction’s name is given first, followed by its traits in
parentheses—including the trait for the type of affliction
(curse, disease, poison, and so forth). If the affliction
needs to have a level specified, it follows the parentheses,
followed by any unusual details, such as restrictions on
removing the conditions imposed by an affliction.
Saving Throw
When you’re first exposed to the affliction, you must
attempt a saving throw against it. This first attempt to
stave off the affliction is called the initial save. An affliction
usually requires a Fortitude save, but the exact save and its
DC are listed after the name and type of affliction. Spells
that can poison you typically use the caster’s spell DC.
On a successful initial saving throw, you are unaffected
by that exposure to the affliction. You do not need to
attempt further saving throws against it unless you are
exposed to the affliction again.
If you fail the initial saving throw, after the affliction’s
onset period elapses (if applicable), you advance to stage 1
of the affliction and are subjected to the listed effect. On
a critical failure, after its onset period (if applicable), you
457
9
PLAYING THE GAME
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Skills
Feats
Equipment
Spells
The Age of
Lost OMENS
Playing the
Game
Game
mastering
Crafting
& Treasure
Appendix
