Type clear quartz; Level 14; Price 3,800 gp
Type selenite; Level 15; Price 7,000 gp
Scrying is DC 36 and gives you the benefits of see invisibility
on the target.
Type moonstone; Level 16; Price 7,500 gp
Scrying is DC 37 and gives you the benefits of mind reading
on the target, using the same save DC.
Type peridot; Level 17; Price 12,500 gp
Scrying is DC 39 and gives you the benefits of
telepathy for communicating with the target.
Type obsidian; Level 19; Price 32,000 gp
Scrying is DC 41 and gives you the benefits of
true seeing for anything you watch through it.
DECANTER OF ENDLESS WATER
ITEM 7
CONJURATION
 MAGICAL
 WATER
Price 320; Bulk L
This item looks like an ordinary glass flask full of water.
The stopper can’t be removed unless you speak one of
the item’s three command words, each of which causes
water to pour forth in a different way. Pulling the stopper
straight out creates fresh water, and rotating it as you pull
creates salt water. Any effect of the decanter lasts until the
decanter is plugged (with its own stopper, a finger, or the like).
Activate [one-action] command, Interact; Effect Speaking “stream,”
you cause water to pour out at a rate of 1 gallon per round.
Activate [one-action] command, Interact; Effect Speaking
“fountain,” you cause water to pour out in a 5-foot-long
stream at a rate of 5 gallons per round.
Activate [one-action] command, Interact; Effect Speaking “geyser,”
you cause a powerful deluge of water to erupt at a rate
of 15 gallons per round. You can direct the stream at a
creature, subjecting it to the effects of hydraulic
push (spell attack roll +15). You can repeat this
once per round as long as the geyser continues,
spending an Interact action to direct the geyser
each time.
EVERBURNING TORCH
ITEM 1
EVOCATION
 LIGHT
 MAGICAL
Price 15 gp
Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk L
An everburning torch is one of the most common
applications of permanent magic. This torch sheds light
constantly, requiring no oxygen and generating no heat.
The flame can be covered or hidden, but can’t be smothered
or quenched.
HOLY PRAYER BEADS
ITEM 5+
UNCOMMON
 DIVINE
 HEALING
 NECROMANCY
 POSITIVE
Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk —
This strand of ordinary-looking prayer beads glows with a
soft light and becomes warm to the touch the first time you
cast a divine spell while holding it. When you do, the prayer
beads become attuned to your deity, changing their form
and iconography to prominently incorporate your deity’s
religious symbol and iconography. The beads don’t transform
or function for an evil spellcaster.
Whenever you cast a divine spell from your own spell slots
while holding the prayer beads, you recover 1 Hit Point; this
is a positive healing effect. If the spell you cast was a healing
spell, you can grant this additional healing to one of the
spell’s targets instead of yourself.
Activate Cast a Spell; Effect Cast bless or heal,
each once per day.
Type standard; Level 5; Price 160 gp
Type greater; Level 11; Price 1,400 gp
You recover 1d4 Hit Points instead of 1 Hit Point
when casting divine spells from your spell slots.
Change the beads’ list of spells to the 4th-level
versions of bless, divine wrath (matching one
component of your deity’s alignment), heal, neutralize
poison, and remove disease. You can cast each of these
once per day.
Craft Requirements You have a spellcasting class
feature with the divine tradition.
HORN OF BLASTING
ITEM 9
EVOCATION
 SONIC
Price 700 gp
Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk L
A horn of blasting is a bright brass trumpet. It can
be played as an instrument, granting a +2 item
bonus to your Performance check.
Activate [one-action] Interact; Frequency once per round;
Effect When you activate the horn by blowing into it with
destructive intent, you create a blast note targeting
one creature or object within 30 feet. The blast deals
3d6 sonic damage. (DC 28 basic Fortitude save).
Activate [two-actions] Interact; Frequency once per
day; Effect You can blow even louder to create
an intense blast wave in a 30-foot cone that
deals 8d6 sonic damage. Each creature
attempts a DC 28 Fortitude save with
the following effects.
Critical Success The creature takes
no damage.
Success The creature takes half damage.
Failure The creature takes full damage and is deafened for
2d6 rounds.
HORN OF FOG
ITEM 6
CONJURATION
 MAGICAL
 WATER
Price 230 gp
Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk 1
This large ram’s horn perpetually glistens with tiny droplets of
water, much like condensation.
Activate [two-actions] Interact; Frequency once per hour; Effect You
activate the horn by blowing deeply into it, causing it to issue
forth a low blast and cast a 2nd-level obscuring mist spell. You
can Dismiss the mist at any time by blowing a second note on
the horn using an Interact action.
573
11
Crafting & Treasure
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Skills
Feats
Equipment
Spells
The Age of
Lost OMENS
Playing the
Game
Game
mastering
Crafting
& Treasure
Appendix
