Runes
Most magic weapons and armor gain their enhancements
from potent eldritch runes etched into them. These runes
allow for in-depth customization of items.
Runes must be physically engraved on items through a
special process to convey their effects. They take two forms:
fundamental runes and property runes. Fundamental
runes offer the most basic and essential benefits: a weapon
potency rune adds a bonus to a weapon’s attack rolls,
and the striking rune adds extra weapon damage dice. An
armor potency rune increases the armor’s item bonus to
AC, and the resilient rune grants a bonus to the wearer’s
saving throws. Property runes, by contrast, grant more
varied effects—typically powers that are constant while
the armor is worn or that take effect each time the weapon
is used, such as a rune that grants energy resistance or one
that adds fire damage to a weapon’s attacks.
The number of property runes a weapon or armor can
have is equal to the value of its potency rune. A +1 weapon
can have one property rune, but it could hold another
if the +1 weapon potency rune were upgraded to a +2
weapon potency rune. Since the striking and resilient runes
are fundamental runes, they don’t count against this limit.
An item with runes is typically referred to by the value of
its potency rune, followed by any other fundamental runes,
then the names of any property runes, and ends with the
name of the base item. For example, you might have a +1
longsword or +2 greater resilient fire-resistant chain mail.
Rune-etched armor and weapons have the same Bulk
and general characteristics as the non-magical version
unless noted otherwise. The level of an item with runes
etched onto it is equal to the highest level among the base
item and all runes etched on it; therefore, a +1 striking
mace (a 4th-level item) with a disrupting rune (a 5th-level
rune) would be a 5th-level item.
Each rune can be etched into a specific type of armor or
weapon, as indicated in the Usage entry of the rune’s stat
block. Explorer’s clothing can have armor runes etched on
it even though it’s not armor, but because it’s not in the
light, medium, or heavy armor category, it can’t have runes
requiring any of those categories.
Investiture
If a suit of armor has any runes, it has the invested trait,
requiring you to invest it to get its magical benefits.
Rune Formulas
The Price of a rune’s formula is the same as the Price of a
formula for an item of the same level; it can be acquired in
the same way as an item formula (described on page 293).
The Etching Process
Etching a rune on an item follows the same process as
using the Craft activity to make an item. You must have
the formula for the rune, the item you’re adding the rune to
must be in your possession throughout the etching process,
and you must meet any special Craft Requirements of the
rune. The rune has no effect until you complete the Craft
activity. You can etch only one rune at a time.
Transferring Runes
You can transfer runes between one item and another,
including a runestone (page 571). This also uses the Craft
activity. This lets you either move one rune from one item
to another or swap a rune on one item with a rune on the
other item. To swap, the runes must be of the same form
(fundamental or property).
If an item can have two or more property runes, you
decide which runes to swap and which to leave when
transferring. If you attempt to transfer a rune to an item
that can’t accept it, such as transferring a melee weapon
rune to a ranged weapon, you get an automatic critical
failure on your Crafting check. If you transfer a potency
rune, you might end up with property runes on an item
that can’t benefit from them. These property runes go
dormant until transferred to an item with the necessary
potency rune or until you etch the appropriate potency
rune on the item bearing them.
The DC of the Crafting check to transfer a rune is
determined by the item level of the rune being transferred,
and the Price of the transfer is 10% of the rune’s Price,
unless transferring from a runestone, which is free. If you’re
swapping, use the higher level and higher Price between the
two runes to determine these values. It takes 1 day (instead
of the 4 days usually needed to Craft) to transfer a rune or
swap a pair of runes, and you can continue to work over
additional days to get a discount, as usual with Craft.
Fundamental Runes
Four fundamental runes produce the most essential magic
of protection and destruction: armor potency and resilient
runes for armor, and weapon potency and striking runes for
weapons. A potency rune is what makes a weapon a magic
weapon (page 599) or armor magic armor (page 556).
An item can have only one fundamental rune of each
type, though etching a stronger rune can upgrade an
existing rune to the more powerful version (as described
in each rune’s entry). As you level up, you typically
alternate between increasing an item’s potency rune and
its striking or resilient rune when you can afford to.
Fundamental Rune	 Etched Onto	 Benefit
Armor potency
Armor
Increase item bonus to AC


and determine maximum


number of property runes
Resilient
Armor
Grant item bonus to saves
Weapon potency
Weapon
Grant an item bonus to


attack rolls and determine


maximum number of


property runes
Striking
Weapon
Increase weapon damage


dice
Core Rulebook
580
