Shortbow: This smaller bow is made of a single piece
of wood and favored by skirmishers and cavalry.
Shortsword: These blades come in a variety of shapes
and styles, but they are typically 2 feet long.
Shuriken: This “throwing star” is a small piece of flat
metal with sharp edges, designed to be flung with a flick
of the wrist.
Sickle: Originally a farming tool used for reaping
grain, this one-handed weapon has a short wooden
handle ending in a curved blade, sometimes sharpened
on both sides.
Sling: Little more than a leather cup attached
to a pair of straps, a sling can be used to fling
smooth stones or sling bullets at a range.
Sling Bullet: These are small metal balls,
typically either iron or lead, designed to be used
as ammunition in slings.
Spear: A long metal shaft ending with a metal
spike, a spear can be used one-handed as a melee
weapon and can be thrown.
Spiked Chain: This 4‑foot‑long length of chain is
covered with barbs and has spikes on one or both ends.
Some feature metal hoops used as handgrips.
Spiked Gauntlet: Providing the same defensive
function as a standard gauntlet, this version has a
group of spikes protruding from the knuckles to
deliver piercing damage with a punch.
Staff: This long piece of wood can aid in walking
and deliver a mighty blow.
Starknife: From a central metal ring, four
tapering metal blades extend like points on
a compass rose. When gripping a starknife
from the center, the wielder can use it as a melee
weapon. It can also be thrown short distances.
Temple Sword: This heavy blade is favored by
guardians of religious sites. It has a distinctive,
crescent-shaped blade that seems to be a mix of a
sickle and sword. It often has holes drilled into
the blade or the pommel so that bells or other
holy trinkets can be affixed to the weapon as
an aid for prayer or mediation.
Trident: This three-pronged, spear-like weapon
typically has a 4-foot shaft. Like a spear, it can be
wielded with one hand or thrown.
War Flail: This large flail has a long shaft
connected to a shorter piece of stout wood
or metal that’s sometimes inlaid with spikes.
Warhammer: This weapon has a wooden
shaft ending in a large, heavy metal head. The
head of the hammer might be single-sided
or double-sided, but it’s always capable of
delivering powerful bludgeoning blows.
Whip: This long strand of thick leather,
often braided, delivers a painful but nonlethal
slash at a distance, usually accompanied by a
distinctive cracking sound.
Mace: With a stout haft and a heavy metal head, a
mace is sturdy and allows its wielder to deliver powerful
blows and dent armor.
Main-Gauche: This parrying dagger features a robust
guard to protect the wielder’s hand.
Maul: Mauls are massive warhammers that must be
swung with two hands.
Morningstar: This weapon has a short shaft ending in
a metal ball studded with spikes.
Nunchaku: The nunchaku is constructed of two
wooden or metal bars connected by a short length of
rope or chain.
Orc Knuckle Dagger: This stout, metal
blade of orc design has a horizontal basket
hilt with blades jutting from each end, or sometimes
one blade like that of a katar.
Orc Necksplitter: This single-bladed bearded axe has
a jagged blade that’s perfect for separating bone from
tendon and cartilage.
Pick: A pick designed solely for combat
has a sturdy wooden shaft and a heavy,
pointed head to deliver devastating blows.
Ranseur: This polearm is a long trident with
a central prong that’s longer than the other two.
Rapier: The rapier is a long and thin piercing
blade with a basket hilt. It is prized among many
as a dueling weapon.
Sai: This piercing dagger is a metal spike flanked by a
pair of prongs that can be used to trap an enemy’s weapon.
Sap: A sap has a soft wrapping around a
dense core, typically a leather sheath around
a lead rod. Its head is wider than its grip to
disperse the force of a blow, as the weapon’s
purpose is to knock out its victim rather than to
draw blood.
Sawtooth Saber: The signature weapon of the
Red Mantis assassins, this curved blade is serrated
like a saw, hence the name.
Scimitar: This one-handed curved blade is
sharp on one side.
Scythe: Derived from a farming tool used
to mow down long grains and cereals, this weapon has
a long wooden shaft with protruding handles, capped
with a curved blade set at a right angle.
Shield Bash: A shield bash is not actually a
weapon, but a maneuver in which you thrust or
swing your shield to hit your foe with an
impromptu attack.
Shield Boss: Typically a round,
convex, or conical piece of thick metal
attached to the center of a shield, a
shield boss increases the bludgeoning damage of a
shield bash.
Shield Spikes: These metal spikes are strategically
placed on the defensive side of the shield to deal
piercing damage with a shield bash.
Core Rulebook
286
