SAMPLE ALCHEMIST
ENDURING ALCHEMY
FEAT 4
ALCHEMIST
You’ve learned how to make your personal energy last just
a little bit longer when quickly brewing ad hoc concoctions.
When using Quick Alchemy to create an alchemical tool or
elixir, that tool or elixir remains potent until the end of your
next turn, instead of losing its potency at the start of your
next turn.
6TH LEVEL
COMBINE ELIXIRS [free-action]
FEAT 6
ADDITIVE 2
ALCHEMIST
Frequency once per round
Trigger You use Quick Alchemy to craft an alchemical item
that has the elixir trait and is at least 2 levels lower than
your advanced alchemy level.
You’ve discovered how to mix two elixirs into a single hybrid
concoction. You can spend 2 additional batches of infused
reagents to add a second elixir to the one you’re crafting.
The second elixir must also be at least 2 levels lower than
your advanced alchemy level, and the combination elixir is
an alchemical item two levels higher than the higher of the
two elixirs’ levels. When this combination elixir is consumed,
both the constituent elixirs take effect. For example, you can
combine two elixirs of life to create a combined elixir that
heals twice the normal amount, or you can combine a lesser
darkvision elixir with a lesser eagle-eye elixir to both gain
darkvision and find secret doors.
DEBILITATING BOMB [free-action]
FEAT 6
ADDITIVE 2
ALCHEMIST
Frequency once per round
Trigger You use Quick Alchemy to craft an alchemical
bomb that is at least 2 levels lower than your advanced
alchemy level.
Your bombs impose additional effects on your enemies.
You mix a substance into the bomb that causes one of the
following: dazzled, deafened, flat-footed, or a –5-foot status
penalty to Speeds. If the attack with that bomb hits, the
target must succeed at a Fortitude saving throw or suffer
that effect until the start of your next turn. Use your class
DC for this saving throw (even if someone else throws
the bomb).
DIRECTIONAL BOMBS
FEAT 6
ALCHEMIST
You can lob bombs with great force and a precise trajectory to
angle the splash in a cone spraying in a single direction. When
throwing an alchemical bomb with the splash trait, instead of
splashing all squares adjacent to the target, you can treat the
target’s space as the first affected square of a 15-foot cone
directed away from you, potentially allowing you to avoid
allies and splash deeper into enemy lines. If the target takes
up more than a single square, the target’s square closest to
you is the first affected square of the cone.
BOMBER
You can mix an explosive out of just about anything!
ABILITY SCORES
Prioritize Intelligence and Dexterity. Constitution helps
you survive explosions gone wrong, and Wisdom
prevents you from bombing the wrong target.
SKILLS
Acrobatics, Arcana, Crafting, Deception, Intimidation,
Society, Stealth, Thievery
RESEARCH FIELD
Bomber
STARTING FEAT
Quick Bomber
HIGHER-LEVEL FEATS
Smoke Bomb (2nd), Calculated Splash (4th), Directional
Bombs (6th), Sticky Bomb (8th), Expanded Splash (10th),
Mega Bomb (20th)
Core Rulebook
78
