VENTRILOQUISM
SPELL 1
AUDITORY
ILLUSION
Traditions arcane, divine, occult, primal
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal
Duration 10 minutes
Whenever you speak or make any other sound vocally, you
can make your vocalization seem to originate from somewhere
else within 60 feet, and you can change that apparent location
freely as you vocalize. Any creature that hears the sound can
attempt to disbelieve your illusion.
Heightened (2nd) The spell’s duration increases to 1 hour,
and you can also change the tone, quality, and other aspects
of your  voice. Before a creature can attempt to disbelieve
your illusion, it must actively attempt a Perception check or
otherwise use actions to interact with the sound.
VIBRANT PATTERN
SPELL 6
ILLUSION
INCAPACITATION
VISUAL
Traditions arcane, occult
Cast [two-actions] material, somatic
Range 120 feet; Area 10-foot burst
Saving Throw Will; Duration sustained up to 1 minute
You create a pattern of lights that pulses with intensity.
Creatures are dazzled while inside the pattern.
In addition, a creature must attempt a Will saving throw
if it’s inside the pattern when you cast it, enters the pattern,
ends its turn within the pattern, or uses a Seek or Interact
action on the pattern. A creature currently blinded by the
pattern doesn’t need to attempt new saving throws.
Success The creature is unaffected.
Failure The creature is blinded by the pattern. If it exits
the pattern, it can attempt a new save to recover from
the blinded condition at the end of each of its turns, to a
maximum duration of 1 minute.
Critical Failure The creature is blinded for 1 minute.
VISIONS OF DANGER
SPELL 7
AUDITORY
ILLUSION
VISUAL
Traditions occult
Cast [three-actions] material, somatic, verbal
Range 500 feet; Area 30-foot burst
Saving Throw Will; Duration 1 minute
An illusion of horrific creatures fills the spell’s area. The
creatures look like Tiny swarming monsters with a specific
appearance of your choice, such as Hellish flies or animated
saw blades. The burst deals 8d8 mental damage to each
creature that’s inside the burst when it’s created, enters
the burst, or starts its turn inside the burst. A creature that
critically succeeds at its will save can immediately attempt to
disbelieve the illusion. A creature that tries to Interact with
the monsters or observes one with a Seek action can attempt
to disbelieve the illusion. Creatures that disbelieve the illusion
take no damage from the illusion thereafter.
Heightened (+1) The mental damage increases by 1d8.
381
7
SPELLS
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Skills
Feats
Equipment
Spells
The Age of
Lost OMENS
Playing the
Game
Game
mastering
Crafting
& Treasure
Appendix
