always add a proficiency bonus to each save. Your class
might give a different proficiency to each save, but you’ll
be trained at minimum. Some circumstances and spells
might give you circumstance or status bonuses to saves,
and you might find resilient armor or other magic items
that give an item bonus.
Fortitude saving throws allow you to reduce the effects
of abilities and afflictions that can debilitate the body.
They use your Constitution modifier and are calculated
as shown in the formula below.
Fortitude save result = d20 roll + Constitution
modifier + proficiency bonus + other bonuses +
penalties
Reflex saving throws measure how well you can
respond quickly to a situation and how gracefully you
can avoid effects that have been thrown at you. They use
your Dexterity modifier and are calculated as shown in
the formula below.
Reflex save result = d20 roll + Dexterity modifier +
proficiency bonus + other bonuses + penalties
Will saving throws measure how well you can resist
attacks to your mind and spirit. They use your Wisdom
modifier and are calculated as shown in the formula below.
Will save result = d20 roll + Wisdom modifier +
proficiency bonus + other bonuses + penalties
Sometimes you’ll need to know your DC for a given
saving throw. The DC for a saving throw is 10 + the total
modifier for that saving throw.
Most of the time, when you attempt a saving throw,
you don’t have to use your actions or your reaction.
You don’t even need to be able to act to attempt saving
throws. However, in some special cases you might have
to take an action to attempt a save. For instance, you can
try to recover from the sickened condition by spending an
action to attempt a Fortitude save.
Basic Saving Throws
Sometimes you will be called on to attempt a basic saving
throw. This type of saving throw works just like any
other saving throw—the “basic” part refers to the effects.
For a basic save, you’ll attempt the check and determine
whether you critically succeed, succeed, fail, or critically
fail like you would any other saving throw. Then one of
the following outcomes applies based on your degree of
success—no matter what caused the saving throw.
Critical Success You take no damage from the spell, hazard, or
effect that caused you to attempt the save.
Success You take half the listed damage from the effect.
Failure You take the full damage listed from the effect.
Critical Failure You take double the listed damage from the effect.
Skill Checks
Pathfinder has a variety of skills, from Athletics to
Medicine to Occultism. Each grants you a set of related
actions that rely on you rolling a skill check. Each skill
has a key ability score, based on the scope of the skill
in question. For instance, Athletics deals with feats of
physical prowess, like swimming and jumping, so its key
ability score is Strength. Medicine deals with the ability
to diagnose and treat wounds and ailments, so its key
ability score is Wisdom. The key ability score for each
skill is listed in Chapter 4: Skills. No matter which
skill you’re using, you calculate a check for it using the
following formula.
Skill check result = d20 roll + modifier of the
skill’s key ability score + proficiency bonus + other
bonuses + penalties
You’re unlikely to be trained in every skill. When
using a skill in which you’re untrained, your proficiency
bonus is +0; otherwise, it equals your level plus 2 for
trained, or higher once you become expert or better.
The proficiency rank is specific to the skill you’re using.
Aid from another character or some other beneficial
situation may grant you a circumstance bonus. A status
bonus might come from a helpful spell or magical effect.
Sometimes tools related to the skill grant you an item
bonus to your skill checks. Conversely, unfavorable
situations might give you a circumstance penalty to your
skill check, while harmful spells, magic, or conditions
might also impose a status penalty. Using shoddy or
makeshift tools might cause you to take an item penalty.
Sometimes a skill action can be an attack, and in these
cases, the skill check might take a multiple attack
penalty, as described on page 446.
When an ability calls for you to use the DC for a
specific skill, you can calculate it by adding 10 + your
total modifier for that skill.
FORTUNE AND MISFORTUNE EFFECTS
Fortune and misfortune effects can alter how you roll
your dice. These abilities might allow you to reroll a
failed roll, force you to reroll a successful roll, allow you
to roll twice and use the higher result, or force you to roll
twice and use the lower result.
You can never have more than one fortune and more
than one misfortune effect come into play on a single roll.
For instance, if an effect lets you roll twice and use the
higher roll, you can’t then use Halfling Luck (a fortune
effect) to reroll if you fail. If multiple fortune effects would
apply, you have to pick which to use. If two misfortune
effects apply, the GM decides which is worse and applies it.
If both a fortune effect and a misfortune effect would
apply to the same roll, the two cancel each other out, and
you roll normally.
449
9
PLAYING THE GAME
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Skills
Feats
Equipment
Spells
The Age of
Lost OMENS
Playing the
Game
Game
mastering
Crafting
& Treasure
Appendix
