SPEAKING
As long as you can act, you can also speak. You don’t
need to spend any type of action to speak, but because a
round represents 6 seconds of time, you can usually speak
at most a single sentence or so per round. Special uses
of speech, such as attempting a Deception skill check to
Lie, require spending actions and follow their own rules.
All speech has the auditory trait. If you communicate in
some way other than speech, other rules might apply. For
instance, using sign language is visual instead of auditory.
not trigger reactions that can be triggered by actions with the
manipulate trait (such as Attack of Opportunity).
If you want to prepare to Release something outside of your
turn, use the Ready activity.
SEEK [one-action]
CONCENTRATE
 SECRET
You scan an area for signs of creatures or objects. If you’re
looking for creatures, choose an area you’re scanning. If
precision is necessary, the GM can have you select a 30-foot
cone or a 15-foot burst within line of sight. You might take a
penalty if you choose an area that’s far away.
If you’re using Seek to search for objects (including secret
doors and hazards), you search up to a 10-foot square adjacent
to you. The GM might determine you need to Seek as an
activity, taking more actions or even minutes or hours if you’re
searching a particularly cluttered area.
The GM attempts a single secret Perception check for you
and compares the result to the Stealth DCs of any undetected
or hidden creatures in the area or the DC to detect each
object in the area (as determined by the GM or by someone
Concealing the Object). A creature you detect might remain
hidden, rather than becoming observed, if you’re using an
imprecise sense or if an effect (such as invisibility) prevents
the subject from being observed.
Critical Success If you were searching for creatures, any
undetected or hidden creature you critically succeeded
against becomes observed by you. If you were searching
for an object, you learn its location.
Success If you were searching for creatures, any undetected
creature you succeeded against becomes hidden from
you instead of undetected, and any hidden creature you
succeeded against becomes observed by you. If you were
searching for an object, you learn its location or get a clue
to its whereabouts, as determined by the GM.
SENSE MOTIVE [one-action]
CONCENTRATE
 SECRET
You try to tell whether a creature’s behavior is abnormal.
Choose one creature, and assess it for odd body language,
signs of nervousness, and other indicators that it might be
trying to deceive someone. The GM attempts a single secret
Perception check for you and compares the result to the
Deception DC of the creature, the DC of a spell affecting the
creature’s mental state, or another appropriate DC determined
by the GM. You typically can’t try to Sense the Motive of the
same creature again until the situation changes significantly.
Critical Success You determine the creature’s true intentions
and get a solid idea of any mental magic affecting it.
Success You can tell whether the creature is behaving normally,
but you don’t know its exact intentions or what magic might
be affecting it.
Failure You detect what a deceptive creature wants you to
believe. If they’re not being deceptive, you believe they’re
behaving normally.
Critical Failure You get a false sense of the creature’s intentions.
STAND [one-action]
MOVE
You stand up from prone.
STEP [one-action]
MOVE
Requirements Your Speed is at least 10 feet.
You carefully move 5 feet. Unlike most types of movement,
Stepping doesn’t trigger reactions, such as Attacks of Opportunity,
that can be triggered by move actions or upon leaving or entering
a square.
You can’t Step into difficult terrain (page 475), and you can’t
Step using a Speed other than your land Speed.
STRIDE [one-action]
MOVE
You move up to your Speed (page 463).
STRIKE [one-action]
ATTACK
You attack with a weapon you’re wielding or with an unarmed
attack, targeting one creature within your reach (for a
melee attack) or within range (for a ranged attack). Roll the
attack roll for the weapon or unarmed attack you are using, and
compare the result to the target creature’s AC to determine the
effect. See Attack Rolls on page 446 and Damage on page 450
for details on calculating your attack and damage rolls.
Critical Success As success, but you deal double damage (page 451).
Success You deal damage according to the weapon or unarmed
attack, including any modifiers, bonuses, and penalties you
have to damage.
TAKE COVER [one-action]
Requirements You are benefiting from cover, are near a feature
that allows you to take cover, or are prone.
You press yourself against a wall or duck behind an obstacle
to take better advantage of cover (page 477). If you would
have standard cover, you instead gain greater cover, which
provides a +4 circumstance bonus to AC; to Reflex saves
against area effects; and to Stealth checks to Hide, Sneak, or
otherwise avoid detection. Otherwise, you gain the benefits of
standard cover (a +2 circumstance bonus instead). This lasts
until you move from your current space, use an attack action,
become unconscious, or end this effect as a free action.
471
9
PLAYING THE GAME
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Skills
Feats
Equipment
Spells
The Age of
Lost OMENS
Playing the
Game
Game
mastering
Crafting
& Treasure
Appendix
