Your faith enhances your ability to remove conditions. When
you use Mercy, you can instead attempt to counteract the
blinded, deafened, sickened, or slowed conditions.
HEAL MOUNT
FEAT 8
CHAMPION
Prerequisites divine ally (steed)
Your devotion to your mount manifests as a surge of positive
energy. When you cast lay on hands on your mount, you can
restore 10 Hit Points, plus 10 for each heightened level.
QUICK BLOCK 
FEAT 8
CHAMPION
You can block with your shield instinctively. At the start of each
of your turns, you gain an additional reaction that you can use
only to perform a Shield Block.
SECOND ALLY 
FEAT 8
CHAMPION
Prerequisites divine ally
Your inner grace attracts the attention of a second protective
spirit. Choose a second type of divine ally and gain its benefits.
SENSE EVIL 
FEAT 8
CHAMPION
Prerequisites tenets of good
You sense evil as a queasy or foreboding feeling. When in the
presence of an aura of evil that is powerful or overwhelming
(page 328), you eventually detect the aura, though you might
not do so instantly, and you can’t pinpoint the location. This
acts as a vague sense, similar to humans’ sense of smell. An
evil creature using a disguise or otherwise trying to hide its
presence attempts a Deception check against your Perception
DC to hide its aura from you. If the creature succeeds at its
Deception check, it is then temporarily immune to your Sense
Evil for 1 day.
10TH LEVEL
DEVOTED FOCUS
FEAT 10
CHAMPION
Prerequisites devotion spells
Your devotion is strong enough to increase your focus to
incredible heights. If you have spent at least 2 Focus Points
since the last time you Refocused, you recover 2 Focus Points
when you Refocus instead of 1.
IMPOSING DESTRIER
FEAT 10
CHAMPION
Prerequisites divine ally (steed), Loyal Warhorse
Under your care, your mount has realized its innate potential.
The mount you gained through the divine ally class feature is
now a nimble or savage animal companion (page 214). During
an encounter, even if you don’t use the Command an Animal
action, your mount can still use 1 action on your turn to Stride
or Strike.
LITANY AGAINST SLOTH
FEAT 10
CHAMPION
Prerequisites devotion spells, tenets of good
You rail against the sin of sloth, turning a foe’s laziness against
it. You can cast the litany against sloth devotion spell. Increase
the number of Focus Points in your focus pool by 1.
RADIANT BLADE SPIRIT
FEAT 10
CHAMPION
Prerequisites divine ally (blade)
Your divine ally radiates power, enhancing your chosen
weapon. When you choose the weapon for your blade ally
during your daily preparations, add the following property
runes to the list of effects you can choose from: flaming and
any aligned properties (anarchic, axiomatic, holy, or unholy)
that match your cause’s alignment.
SHIELD OF RECKONING [reaction]
FEAT 10
CHAMPION
FLOURISH
Prerequisites champion’s reaction, divine ally (shield), tenets
of good, Shield Warden
Trigger A foe’s attack against an ally matches the trigger for
both your Shield Block reaction and your champion’s reaction.
When you shield your ally against an attack, you call upon
your power to protect your ally further. You use the Shield
Block reaction to prevent damage to an ally and also use your
champion’s reaction against the foe that attacked your ally.
12TH LEVEL
AFFLICTION MERCY
FEAT 12
CHAMPION
Prerequisites Mercy
The divine grace that flows through you grants reprieve from
an affliction. When you use Mercy, you can instead attempt to
counteract a curse, disease, or poison.
AURA OF FAITH
FEAT 12
CHAMPION
Prerequisites tenets of good
You radiate an aura of pure belief that imbues your attacks
and those of nearby allies with holy power. Your Strikes deal
an extra 1 good damage against evil creatures. Also, each
good-aligned ally within 15 feet gains this benefit on their first
Strike that hits an evil creature each round.
BLADE OF JUSTICE [two-actions]
FEAT 12
CHAMPION
Prerequisites paladin cause
You call upon divine power and make a weapon or unarmed
Strike against a foe you have witnessed harming an ally or
innocent. The Strike deals two extra weapon damage dice
if the target of your Strike is evil. Whether or not the target
is evil, the Strike applies all effects that normally apply on a
Retributive Strike (such as divine smite), and you can convert all
the physical damage from the attack into good damage.
113
3
CLASSES
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Skills
Feats
Equipment
Spells
The Age of
Lost OMENS
Playing the
Game
Game
mastering
Crafting
& Treasure
Appendix
