•	 One or more attacks specific to the battle form you
choose, which are the only attacks you can use. You’re
trained with them. Your attack modifier is +13, and your
damage bonus is +2. These attacks are Strength based
(for the purpose of the enfeebled condition). If your
unarmed attack modifier is higher, you can use it instead.
•	 Athletics modifier of +13, unless your own is higher.
You also gain specific abilities based on the form you choose:
•	 Ant Speed 30 feet, climb Speed 30 feet; Melee [one-action]
mandibles, Damage 2d6 bludgeoning.
•	 Beetle Speed 25 feet; Melee [one-action] mandibles, Damage
2d10 bludgeoning.
•	 Centipede Speed 25 feet, climb Speed 25 feet;
darkvision; Melee [one-action] mandibles, Damage 1d8 piercing
plus 1d4 persistent poison.
•	 Mantis Speed 40 feet; imprecise scent 30 feet; Melee
[one-action] foreleg, Damage 2d8 bludgeoning.
•	 Scorpion Speed 40 feet; darkvision, imprecise
tremorsense 60 feet; Melee [one-action] stinger, Damage 1d8
piercing plus 1d4 persistent poison; Melee [one-action] pincer
(agile), Damage 1d6 bludgeoning.
•	 Spider darkvision; Melee [one-action] fangs, Damage 1d6 piercing
plus 1d4 persistent poison; Melee [one-action] Speed 25 feet, climb
Speed 25 feet; Ranged [one-action] web (range increment 20 feet),
Damage entangles the target for 1 round.
Heightened (4th) Your battle form is Large, and your attacks
have 10-foot reach. You must have enough space to expand
into or the spell is lost. You instead gain 15 temporary HP,
attack modifier +16, damage bonus +6, and Athletics +16.
Heightened (5th) Your battle form is Huge, and your attacks
have 15-foot reach. You must have enough space to expand
into or the spell is lost. You instead gain 20 temporary HP,
attack modifier +18, damage bonus +2 and double damage
dice (including persistent damage), and Athletics +20.
INVISIBILITY
SPELL 2
ILLUSION
Traditions arcane, occult
Cast [two-actions] material, somatic
Range touch; Targets 1 creature
Duration 10 minutes
Cloaked in illusion, the target becomes invisible. This makes it
undetected to all creatures, though the creatures can attempt
to find the target, making it hidden to them instead (page
466). If the target uses a hostile action, the spell ends after
that hostile action is completed.
Heightened (4th) The spell lasts 1 minute, but it doesn’t end if
the target uses a hostile action.
INVISIBILITY SPHERE
SPELL 3
ILLUSION
Traditions arcane, occult
Cast [two-actions] material, somatic
Area 10-foot emanation; Targets you and any number of
creatures in range
Duration 10 minutes
You and all targets are invisible except to each other as long as
you remain within the spell’s area. If a creature made invisible
by this spell leaves the spell’s area, it becomes visible and
remains so even if it returns to the spell’s area. If any creature
made invisible by this spell uses a hostile action, the spell ends
after the hostile action is completed.
While exploring, it’s easy to move together slowly and
remain invisible. This is untenable in a battle, however. Once
an encounter begins, creatures remain invisible until at most
the end of the first round, at which point the spell ends.
Heightened (5th) The duration increases to 1 hour.
ITEM FACADE
SPELL 1
ILLUSION
VISUAL
Traditions arcane, occult
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal
Range touch; Targets 1 object no more than 10 feet by 10 feet
by 10 feet
Duration 1 hour
You make the target object look and feel as though it were
in much better or worse physical condition. When you cast
this spell, decide whether you want to make the object look
decrepit or perfect. An item made to look decrepit appears
broken and shoddy. An intact item made to look better
appears as though it’s brand new and highly polished or well
maintained. A broken item appears to be intact and functional.
Destroyed items can’t be affected by this spell. A creature that
Interacts with the item can attempt to disbelieve the illusion.
Heightened (2nd) The duration is 24 hours.
Heightened (3rd) The duration is unlimited.
JUMP
SPELL 1
MOVE
TRANSMUTATION
Traditions arcane, primal
Cast [one-action] somatic
Your legs surge with strength, ready to leap high and far. You
jump 30 feet in any direction without touching the ground. You
must land on a space of solid ground within 30 feet of you, or
else you fall after using your next action.
Heightened (3rd) The range becomes touch, the target
changes to one touched creature, and the duration becomes
1 minute, allowing the target to jump as described whenever
it takes the Leap action.
KNOCK
SPELL 2
TRANSMUTATION
Traditions arcane, occult
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal
Range 30 feet; Targets 1 door, lock, or container
Duration 1 minute
You make the target easier to open. Knock grants a +4 status
bonus to any creature that tries to open the target door, lock, or
container with an Athletics or a Thievery check. You can attempt
a Thievery check to open the target as part of casting knock, and
you add your level even if you’re untrained.
Knock counteracts lock.
347
7
SPELLS
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Skills
Feats
Equipment
Spells
The Age of
Lost OMENS
Playing the
Game
Game
mastering
Crafting
& Treasure
Appendix
