Bomb: Increase the radius of the bomb’s splash damage
(if any) to 10 feet.
Bow: If the target of the critical hit is adjacent
to a surface, it gets stuck to that surface by the
missile. The target is immobilized and must spend
an Interact action to attempt a DC 10 Athletics
check to pull the missile free; it can’t move from its
space until it succeeds. The creature doesn’t become
stuck if it is incorporeal, is liquid (like a water elemental
or some oozes), or could otherwise escape without effort.
Brawling: The target must succeed at a Fortitude save
against your class DC or be slowed 1 until the end of
your next turn.
Club: You knock the target away from you up to 10
feet (you choose the distance). This is forced movement
(page 475).
Dart: The target takes 1d6 persistent bleed damage.
You gain an item bonus to this bleed damage equal to
the weapon’s item bonus to attack rolls.
Flail: The target is knocked prone.
Hammer: The target is knocked prone.
Knife: The target takes 1d6 persistent bleed
damage. You gain an item bonus to this bleed damage
equal to the weapon’s item bonus to attack rolls.
Pick: The weapon viciously pierces the target, who
takes 2 additional damage per weapon damage die.
Polearm: The target is moved 5 feet in a direction
of your choice. This is forced movement (page 475).
Shield: You knock the target back from you 5 feet.
This is forced movement (page 475).
Sling: The target must succeed at a Fortitude save
against your class DC or be stunned 1.
Spear: The weapon pierces the target, weakening its
attacks. The target is clumsy 1 until the start of your
next turn.
Sword: The target is made off-balance by your
attack, becoming flat-footed until the start of your
next turn.
Weapon Descriptions
Each of the weapons listed in Tables 6–7 and 6–8 are
described below.
Alchemical Bomb: These bombs come in a variety
of types and levels of power, but no matter the variety,
you throw the bomb at the target and it explodes,
unleashing its alchemical blast.
Arrow: These projectiles are the ammunition for
bows. The shaft of an arrow is made of wood. It is
stabilized in flight by fletching at one end and bears a
metal head on the other.
Bastard
Sword:
This
broad-bladed
sword,
sometimes called the hand‑and‑a‑half sword, has a
longer grip so it can be held in one hand or used with
two hands to provide extra piercing or slashing power.
Battle Axe: These axes are designed explicitly as
weapons, rather than tools. They typically weigh less, with
a shaft reinforced with metal bands or bolts, and have
a sharper blade, making them ideal for chopping limbs
rather than wood.
Bolt: Shorter than traditional arrows but similar in
construction, bolts are the ammunition used by crossbows.
Blowgun: This long, narrow tube is used for shooting
blowgun darts, using only the power of a forcefully
exhaled breath.
Blowgun Dart: These thin, light darts are typically
made of hardwood and stabilized with fletching of
down or fur. They are often hollow so they can be
used to deliver poison.
Bo Staff: This strong but slender staff is tapered
at the ends and well balanced. It’s designed to be
an offensive and defensive weapon.
Clan Dagger: This broad dagger is carried by dwarves
as a weapon, tool, and designation of clan. Losing or
having to surrender a clan dagger is considered a mark
of embarrassment to most dwarves.
Club: This is a piece of stout wood shaped or
repurposed to bludgeon an enemy. Clubs can be
intricately carved pieces of martial art or as simple as
a tree branch or piece of wood.
Composite Longbow: This projectile weapon
is made from horn, wood, and sinew laminated
together to increase the power of its pull and the
force of its projectile. Like all longbows, its great size
also increases the bow’s range and power. You must
use two hands to fire it, and it cannot be used while
mounted. Any time an ability is specifically restricted
to a longbow, such as Erastil’s favored weapon, it also
applies to composite longbows unless otherwise stated.
Composite Shortbow: This shortbow is made from horn,
wood, and sinew laminated together to increase the power
of its pull and the force of its projectile. Its compact size and
power make it a favorite of mounted archers. Any time an
ability is specifically restricted to a shortbow, it also applies
to composite shortbows unless otherwise stated.
Crossbow: This ranged weapon has a bow-like
assembly mounted on a handled frame called a tiller.
The tiller has a mechanism to lock the bowstring in
place, attached to a trigger mechanism that releases
the tension and launches a bolt.
Dagger: This small, bladed weapon is held in one
hand and used to stab a creature in close combat. It
can also be thrown.
Dart: This thrown weapon is larger than an
arrow but shorter than a javelin. It typically has
a short shaft of wood ending in a metal tip and is
sometimes stabilized by feathers or fur.
Dogslicer: This short, curved, and crude makeshift
blade often has holes drilled into it to reduce its weight.
It’s a favored weapon of goblins.
Dwarven Waraxe: This favored weapon of the dwarves
has a large, ornate head mounted on a thick handle. This
powerful axe can be wielded with one hand or two.
Core Rulebook
284
