SAMPLE CLERIC
GOZREN
Following the Wind and the Waves, you protect the
beauty of nature in all its forms.
ABILITY SCORES
Prioritize Wisdom and Strength. Charisma increases your
divine font heal spells.
SKILLS
Athletics, Nature, Religion, Survival
DEITY
Gozreh (alignment: LN; divine font: heal)
DOCTRINE
Warpriest
HIGHER-LEVEL FEATS
Domain Initiate (water, 1st), Divine Weapon (6th)
PREPARED SPELLS
1st gust of wind, sanctuary, heal spells from divine font;
Cantrips detect magic, know direction, light, message, shield
of your domains (as listed in Table 8–2: Domains on page 441).
Increase the number of Focus Points in your focus pool by 1.
Special You can select this feat multiple times. Each time,
you must select a different advanced domain spell from a
domain for which you have an initial domain spell.
ALIGN ARMAMENT [one-action]
FEAT 8
CLERIC
DIVINE
EVOCATION
Prerequisites chaotic, evil, good, or lawful deity
Frequency once per round
You bring a weapon into metaphysical concordance with your
deity’s beliefs. When you select this feat, choose chaotic, evil,
good, or lawful. Your choice must match one of your deity’s
alignment components. This action has the trait corresponding
to the chosen alignment component.
When you use this action, you touch a weapon. For 1
round, that weapon deals an additional 1d6 damage of the
chosen type to creatures of the opposed alignment. For
example, if you chose good, the weapon would deal
an extra 1d6 good damage to evil creatures. If you
Align an Armament again, any previously aligned
armament loses its additional damage.
Special You can select this feat a second time,
choosing your deity’s other alignment component.
When you Align an Armament, you can choose either
alignment component.
CHANNELED SUCCOR 
FEAT 8
CLERIC
Prerequisites healing font
You can remove conditions with divine grace. You can sacrifice
one heal spell you’ve prepared in your extra slots from healing
font to cast one of the following spells instead: remove curse,
remove disease, remove paralysis, or restoration. The spell is
heightened to the same level as the heal spell you sacrificed.
CREMATE UNDEAD
FEAT 8
CLERIC
Your positive energy sets undead alight. When you use a heal
spell to damage undead, each undead that takes damage also
takes persistent fire damage equal to the spell’s level.
EMBLAZON ENERGY
FEAT 8
CLERIC
Prerequisites Emblazon Armament
With elemental forces, you make your emblazoned symbols
more potent. When you Emblazon an Armament, you can choose
from the following effects instead of the effects listed in that feat.
These effects have the same restrictions as the base options.
•	 Shield Choose acid, cold, electricity, fire, or sonic.
The wielder gain the shield’s circumstance bonus to
saving throws against that damage type and can use
Shield Block against damage of that type. The shield
also gains resistance to that damage type equal to
half your level if you have a domain spell with a trait
matching that type (such as fire).
Core Rulebook
124
