Weapon Statistics
The tables on pages 280–282 list the statistics for various
melee and ranged weapons that you can purchase, as well
as the statistics for striking with a fist (or another basic
unarmed attack). The tables present the following statistics.
All weapons listed in this chapter have an item level of 0.
Damage
This entry lists the weapon’s damage die and the type of
damage it deals: B for bludgeoning, P for piercing, or S
for slashing.
Damage Dice
Each weapon lists the damage die used for its damage
roll. A standard weapon deals one die of damage, but a
magical striking rune can increase the number of dice
rolled, as can some special actions and spells. These
additional dice use the same die size as the weapon or
unarmed attack’s normal damage die.
Counting Damage Dice
Effects based on a weapon’s number of damage dice
include only the weapon’s damage die plus any extra dice
from a striking rune. They don’t count extra dice from
abilities, critical specialization effects, property runes,
weapon traits, or the like.
Increasing Die Size
When an effect calls on you to increase the size of your
weapon damage dice, instead of using its normal weapon
damage dice, use the next larger die, as listed below (so if
you were using a d4, you’d use a d6, and so on). If you are
already using a d12, the size is already at its maximum.
You can’t increase your weapon damage die size more
than once.
1d4 ➞ 1d6 ➞ 1d8 ➞ 1d10 ➞ 1d12
Range
Ranged and thrown weapons have a range increment.
Attacks with these weapons work normally up to
that distance. Attack rolls beyond a weapon’s range
increment take a –2 penalty for each additional multiple
of that increment between you and the target. Attacks
beyond the sixth range increment are impossible.
For example, a shortbow takes no penalty against a
target up to 60 feet away, a –2 penalty against a target
beyond 60 feet but up to 120 feet away, and a –4 penalty
against a target beyond 120 feet but up to 180 feet away,
and so on, up to 360 feet.
Reload
While all weapons need some amount of time to get into
position, many ranged weapons also need to be loaded and
reloaded. This entry indicates how many Interact actions
it takes to reload such weapons. This can be 0 if drawing
ammunition and firing the weapon are part of the same
action. If an item takes 2 or more actions to reload, the
GM determines whether they must be performed together
as an activity, or you can spend some of those actions
during one turn and the rest during your next turn.
An item with an entry of “—” must be drawn to be
thrown, which usually takes an Interact action just like
drawing any other weapon. Reloading a ranged weapon
and drawing a thrown weapon both require a free hand.
Switching your grip to free a hand and then to place your
hands in the grip necessary to wield the weapon are both
included in the actions you spend to reload a weapon.
Bulk
This entry gives the weapon’s Bulk. A weapon’s Bulk is
increased or decreased if it’s sized for creatures that aren’t
Small or Medium size, following the rules on page 295.
Hands
Some weapons require one hand to wield, and others
require two. A few items, such as a longbow, list 1+ for
its Hands entry. You can hold a weapon with a 1+ entry
in one hand, but the process of shooting it requires using
a second to retrieve, nock, and loose an arrow. This means
you can do things with your free hand while holding the
SELECTING WEAPONS
Characters who focus on combat need to carefully
consider their choice of weapons, evaluating whether
they want to fight in melee or at range, the weapons’
damage potential, and the special features of various
weapons. Characters who are primarily spellcasters
usually just need to pick a backup weapon in the best
category they’re trained or better in.
When selecting weapons, start by identifying the
weapon types you’re trained or better in. You should then
compare weapons within these types to determine which
ones you will have the highest melee or ranged attack
modifier with. It’s usually considered best practice to
select both a melee and ranged weapon during character
creation so you can contend with a broader variety of
foes and situations.
Weapon Categories
Weapons fall into broad categories depending on how
much damage they deal and what traits they have.
Martial weapons generally deal more damage than simple
weapons, and advanced weapons generally have more
advantageous traits than martial weapons with the same
damage. Generally, you’ll want to select weapons that deal
more damage, but if you’re a highly skilled combatant, you
might want to pick a weapon with interesting traits, even
if it has a lower weapon damage die. You can also purchase
multiple weapons within your budget, allowing you to
switch between them for different situations.
EQUIPMENT
6
279
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Skills
Feats
Equipment
Spells
The Age of
Lost OMENS
Playing the
Game
Game
mastering
Crafting
& Treasure
Appendix
