costs 10 additional feet of movement. This additional
cost is not increased when moving diagonally. You can’t
Step into difficult terrain.
Movement you make while you are jumping ignores the
terrain you’re jumping over. Some abilities (such as flight
or being incorporeal) allow you to avoid the movement
reduction from some types of difficult terrain. Certain
other abilities let you ignore difficult terrain on foot;
such an ability also allows you to move through greater
difficult terrain at the normal movement cost as for
difficult terrain, though it wouldn’t let you ignore greater
difficult terrain unless the ability specifies otherwise.
Hazardous Terrain
Hazardous terrain damages you whenever you move
through it. An acid pool and a pit of burning embers are
both examples of hazardous terrain. The amount and
type of damage depend on the specific hazardous terrain.
Narrow Surfaces
A narrow surface is so precariously thin that you need to
Balance (see Acrobatics on page 240) or risk falling. Even
on a success, you are flat-footed on a narrow surface.
Each time you are hit by an attack or fail a save on a
narrow surface, you must succeed at a Reflex save (with
the same DC as the Acrobatics check to Balance) or fall.
Uneven Ground
Uneven ground is an area unsteady enough that you need
to Balance (see Acrobatics on page 240) or risk falling
prone and possibly injuring yourself, depending on the
specifics of the uneven ground. You are flat-footed on
uneven ground. Each time you are hit by an attack or
fail a save on uneven ground, you must succeed at a
Reflex save (with the same DC as the Acrobatics check to
Balance) or fall prone.
Inclines
An incline is an area so steep that you need to Climb
using the Athletics skill in order to progress upward.
You’re flat-footed when Climbing an incline.
Flanking
When you and an ally are flanking a foe, it has a harder
time defending against you. A creature is flat-footed
(taking a –2 circumstance penalty to AC) to creatures that
are flanking it.
To flank a foe, you and your ally must be on opposites
sides or corners of the creature. A line drawn between
the center of your space and the center of your ally’s
space must pass through opposite sides or opposite
corners of the foe’s space. Additionally, both you and
the ally have to be able to act, must be wielding melee
weapons or able to make an unarmed attack, can’t be
under any effects that prevent you from attacking, and
must have the enemy within reach. If you are wielding
a reach weapon, you use your reach with that weapon
for this purpose.
Seoni
Flanking
1.	 Valeros and Kyra are flanking the
ogre because they can draw a line
to each other that passes through
opposite sides of the ogre’s space.
The ogre is flat-footed to them, taking
a –2 circumstance penalty to its AC.
2.	Merisiel isn’t flanking the ogre
because she can’t draw a line to
Valeros or Kyra that passes through
opposite sides of the ogre’s space,
and the ogre is not in Seoni’s reach.
3.	The hobgoblin and ogre flank Seoni,
since she is within reach for both, and
they can draw a line between them
that passes through opposite sides
of her space. If the ogre didn’t have
10 feet of reach, the two creatures
wouldn’t flank her.
3
1
2
Valeros
Merisiel
Kyra
Ogre
Hobgoblin
Core Rulebook
476
