Each of the environments presented in this section uses
the terrain rules (which are summarized on page 514
and appear in full beginning on page 475) in different
ways, so be sure to familiarize yourself with those rules
before reading this section. Some environments refer to
the rules for climate (page 517) and natural disasters
(beginning on page 517). Many places have the traits of
multiple environments; a snow-covered mountain might
use both the arctic and mountain environments, for
example. For environmental features with effects based
on how tall or deep they are, those effects vary further
based on a creature’s size. For instance, a shallow bog
for a Medium creature might be a deep bog for smaller
creatures, and a deep bog for a Medium creature could
be only a shallow bog for a larger creature (and so
insignificant for a truly massive creature that it isn’t
even difficult terrain).
Table 10–12 lists the features of various environments
alphabetically for quick reference. The Proficiency DC
Band entry indicates a range of appropriate simple DCs
for that environmental feature, while also providing a
rough estimate of the danger or complexity of the feature.
Environmental Damage
Some environmental features or natural disasters deal
damage. Because the amount of damage can vary based
on the specific circumstances, the rules for specific
environments and natural disasters use damage categories
to describe the damage, rather than exact numbers.
Use Table 10–11 below to determine damage from an
environment or natural disaster. When deciding the exact
damage amount, use your best judgment based on how
extreme you deem the danger to be.
TABLE 10–11: ENVIRONMENTAL DAMAGE

Category
Damage

Minor
1d6–2d6

Moderate
4d6–6d6

Major
8d6–12d6

Massive
18d6–24d6
Aquatic
Aquatic environments are among the most challenging
for PCs short of other worlds and unusual planes. PCs in
an aquatic environment need a way to breathe (typically
a water breathing spell) and must usually Swim to
Environment
Primarily used during exploration, environment rules bring the locales your party
travels through to life. You’ll often be able to use common sense to adjudicate how
environments work, but you’ll need special rules for environments that really stand out.
move, though a PC who sinks to the bottom can walk
awkwardly, using the rules for greater difficult terrain.
Characters in aquatic environments make frequent use
of the aquatic combat (page 478) and drowning and
suffocation rules (page 478).
Currents and Flowing Water
Ocean currents, flowing rivers, and similar moving water
are difficult terrain or greater difficult terrain (depending
on the speed of the water) for a creature Swimming against
the current. At the end of a creature’s turn, it moves a
certain distance depending on the current’s speed. For
instance, a 10-foot current moves a creature 10 feet in
the current’s direction at the end of that creature’s turn.
Visibility
It’s much harder to see things at a distance underwater
than it is on land, and it’s particularly difficult if the water
is murky or full of particles. In pure water, the maximum
visual range is roughly 240 feet to see a small object, and
in murky water, visibility can be reduced to only 10 feet
or even less.
Arctic
The main challenge in an arctic environment is the low
temperature, but arctic environments also contain ice
and snow. The disasters that most often strike in arctic
environments are avalanches, blizzards, and floods.
Ice
Icy ground is both uneven ground and difficult terrain, as
characters slip and slide due to poor traction.
Snow
Depending on the depth of snow and its composition,
most snowy ground is either difficult terrain or greater
difficult terrain. In denser snow, characters can attempt
to walk along the surface without breaking through, but
some patches might be loose or soft enough that they’re
uneven ground.
Desert
Desert encompasses sandy and rocky deserts as well
as badlands. Though tundra is technically a desert, it’s
classified as arctic, as the climate is the primary challenge
in such areas. Sandy deserts often have quicksand hazards
(page 526) and sandstorms.
Core Rulebook
512
