Vague Senses
A character also has many vague senses—ones that can
alert you that something is there but aren’t useful for
zeroing in on it to determine exactly what it is. The
most useful of these for a typical character is the sense
of smell. At best, a vague sense can be used to detect the
presence of an unnoticed creature, making it undetected.
Even then, the vague sense isn’t sufficient to make the
creature hidden or observed.
When one creature might detect another, the GM
almost always uses the most precise sense available.
Pathfinder’s rules assume that a given creature has
vision as its only precise sense and hearing as its only
imprecise sense. Some characters and creatures, however,
have precise or imprecise senses that don’t match this
assumption. For instance, a character with poor vision
might treat that sense as imprecise, an animal with the
scent ability can use its sense of smell as an imprecise
sense, and a creature with echolocation or a similar
ability can use hearing as a precise sense. Such senses are
often given special names and appear as “echolocation
(precise),” “scent (imprecise) 30 feet,” or the like.
Special Senses
While a human might have a difficult time making
creatures out in dim light, an elf can see those creatures
just fine. And though elves have no problem seeing on
a moonlit night, their vision cannot penetrate complete
darkness, whereas a dwarf’s can.
Special senses grant greater awareness that allows
a creature with these senses to either ignore or reduce
the effects of the undetected, hidden, or concealed
conditions (described in Detecting Creatures below)
when it comes to situations that foil average vision. The
following are a few examples of common special senses.
Darkvision and Greater Darkvision
A creature with darkvision or greater darkvision can
see perfectly well in areas of darkness and dim light,
though such vision is in black and white only. Some
forms of magical darkness, such as a 4th-level darkness
spell, block normal darkvision. A creature with greater
darkvision, however, can see through even these forms
of magical darkness.
Low-Light Vision
A creature with low-light vision can see in dim light as
though it were bright light, so it ignores the concealed
condition due to dim light.
Scent
Scent involves sensing creatures or objects by smell, and is
usually a vague sense. The range is listed in the ability, and
it functions only if the creature or object being detected
emits an aroma (for instance, incorporeal creatures usually
do not exude an aroma).
If a creature emits a heavy aroma or is upwind, the GM
can double or even triple the range of scent abilities used
to detect that creature, and the GM can reduce the range
if a creature is downwind.
Tremorsense
Tremorsense allows a creature to feel the vibrations
through a solid surface caused by movement. It is usually
an imprecise sense with a limited range (listed in the ability).
Tremorsense functions only if the detecting creature is on
the same surface as the subject, and only if the subject is
moving along (or burrowing through) the surface.
Detecting Creatures
There are three conditions that measure the degree
to which you can sense a creature: observed, hidden,
and undetected. However, the concealed and invisible
conditions can partially mask a creature, and the
unnoticed condition indicates you have no idea a creature
is around. In addition to the descriptions here, you can
find these conditions in the Conditions Appendix on
pages 618–623.
With the exception of invisible, these conditions are
relative to the viewer—it’s possible for a creature to be
observed to you but hidden from your ally. When you’re
trying to target a creature that’s hard to see or otherwise
sense, various drawbacks apply. Most of these rules apply
to objects you’re trying to detect as well as creatures.
DETECTING WITH OTHER SENSES
If a monster uses a sense other than vision, the GM can
adapt the variables that keep its foes from being detected
to equivalents that work with the monster’s senses. For
example, a creature that has echolocation might use
hearing as a primary sense. This could mean its quarry is
concealed in a noisy chamber, hidden in a great enough
din, or even invisible in the area of a silence spell.
Using Stealth with Other Senses
The Stealth skill is designed to use Hide for avoiding
visual detection and Avoid Notice and Sneak to avoid
being both seen and heard. For many special senses, a
player can describe how they’re avoiding detection by
that special sense and use the most applicable Stealth
action. For instance, a creature stepping lightly to avoid
being detected via tremorsense would be using Sneak.
In some cases, rolling a Dexterity-based Stealth
skill check to Sneak doesn’t make the most sense.
For example, when facing a creature that can detect
heartbeats, a PC trying to avoid being detected might
meditate to slow their heart rate, using Wisdom instead
of Dexterity as the ability modifier for the Stealth check.
When a creature that can detect you has multiple senses,
such as if it could also hear or see, the PC would use the
lowest applicable ability modifier for the check.
465
9
PLAYING THE GAME
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Skills
Feats
Equipment
Spells
The Age of
Lost OMENS
Playing the
Game
Game
mastering
Crafting
& Treasure
Appendix
