Heightening Spells
When you get spell slots of 2nd level and higher, you can
fill those slots with stronger versions of lower-level spells.
This increases the spell’s level, heightening it to match the
spell slot. Many spells have specific improvements when
they are heightened to certain levels.
Cantrips
A cantrip is a special type of spell that doesn’t use spell
slots. You can cast a cantrip at will, any number of times
per day. A cantrip is always automatically heightened to
half your level rounded up—this is usually equal to the
highest level of spell you can cast as a cleric. For example,
as a 1st-level cleric, your cantrips are 1st-level spells, and
as a 5th-level cleric, your cantrips are 3rd-level spells.
Divine Font
Through your deity’s blessing, you gain additional spells
that channel either the life force called positive energy or
its counterforce, negative energy. When you
prepare your spells each day, you can
prepare additional heal or harm spells,
depending on your deity. The divine
font spell your deity provides is listed in
the Divine Font entry for your deity on
pages 437–440; if both are listed, you can
choose between heal or harm. Once you
choose, you can’t change your choice short
of an ethical shift or divine intervention.
Healing Font: You gain additional spell
slots each day at your highest level of cleric spell slots.
You can prepare only heal spells (page 343) in these
slots, and the number of slots is equal to 1 plus your
Charisma modifier.
Harmful Font: You gain additional spell slots each
day at your highest level of cleric spell slots. You can
prepare only harm spells (page 343) in these slots,
and the number of slots is equal to 1 plus your
Charisma modifier.
Doctrine
Even among followers of the same deity, there
are numerous doctrines and beliefs, which
sometimes vary wildly between clerics. At 1st
level, you select a doctrine and gain the benefits
of its first doctrine. The doctrines presented in
this book are cloistered cleric and warpriest.
Each doctrine grants you initial benefits
at 1st level. At 3rd, 7th, 11th, 15th, and
19th levels, you gain the benefits granted by your
doctrine’s second, third, fourth, fifth, and final
doctrines respectively.
Cloistered Cleric
You are a cleric of the cloth, focusing on divine magic and
your connection to your deity’s domains.
First Doctrine (1st): You gain the Domain Initiate cleric
feat (page 121).
Second Doctrine (3rd): Your proficiency rank for
Fortitude saves increases to expert.
Third Doctrine (7th): Your proficiency ranks for divine
spell attack rolls and spell DCs increase to expert.
Fourth Doctrine (11th): You gain expert proficiency
with your deity’s favored weapon. When you
critically succeed at an attack roll
using that weapon, you apply
the weapon’s critical specialization
effect; use your divine spell DC
if necessary.
119
3
CLASSES
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Skills
Feats
Equipment
Spells
The Age of
Lost OMENS
Playing the
Game
Game
mastering
Crafting
& Treasure
Appendix
