Hero Points
Unlike Experience Points and treasure, which stay with a
character, Hero Points are granted and used on a per‑session
basis. At the start of a game session, you give out 1 Hero
Point to each player character. You can also give out more
Hero Points during the game, typically after a heroic
moment or accomplishment (see below). As noted on page
467, a player can spend 1 Hero Point for a reroll, or they
can spend all their Hero Points to recover when near death.
In a typical game, you’ll hand out about 1 Hero Point
during each hour of play after the first (for example, 3
extra points in a 4-hour session). If you want a more over-
the-top game, or if your group is up against incredible
odds and showing immense bravery, you might give them
out at a faster rate, like 1 every 30 minutes (6 over a
4-hour session). Try to ensure each PC has opportunities
to earn Hero Points, and avoid granting all of the Hero
Points to a single character.
Brave last stands, protecting innocents, and using a
smart strategy or spell to save the day could all earn a
character a Hero Point. Look for those moments when
everybody at the table celebrates or sits back in awe of a
character’s accomplishments; that’s your cue to issue that
character a Hero Point.
The party could also gain Hero Points for their
accomplishments throughout the game. For a moderate
or major accomplishment, consider giving out a Hero
Point as well. This point typically goes to a PC who was
instrumental in attaining that accomplishment.
Experience Points
As characters adventure, they earn Experience Points (XP).
These awards come from achieving goals, completing
social encounters, exploring new places, fighting monsters,
overcoming hazards, and other sorts of deeds. You have
a great deal of control over when the characters gain XP,
though the following guidelines are what you’re expected
to give out in a standard campaign.
Normally, when a player character reaches 1,000 XP
or more, they level up, reduce their XP by 1,000, and
start progressing toward the next level. Other means of
advancement are described in the Advancement Speeds
sidebar on page 509.
XP AWARDS
Experience Points are awarded for encounters, exploration,
and progress in an adventure. When the PCs face direct
opposition, such as a fight or a social conflict, the XP
earned is based on the level of the challenge the party
overcame. Characters can also gain XP from exploration,
such as finding secret areas, locating a hideout, enduring
a dangerous environment, or mapping an entire dungeon.
Any XP awarded goes to all members of the group. For
instance, if the party wins a battle worth 100 XP, they
each get 100 XP, even if the party’s rogue was off in a
vault stealing treasure during the battle. But if the rogue
collected a splendid and famous gemstone, which you’ve
decided was a moderate accomplishment worth 30 XP,
each member of the party gets 30 XP, too.
Adversaries and Hazards
Encounters with adversaries and hazards grant a set
amount of XP. When the group overcomes an encounter
with creatures or hazards, each character gains XP equal to
the total XP of the creatures and hazards in the encounter
(this excludes XP adjustments for different party sizes; see
Party Size on page 508 for details).
Trivial encounters don’t normally grant any XP, but
you might decide to award the same XP as for a minor or
moderate accomplishment for a trivial encounter that was
important to the story, or for an encounter that became
trivial because of the order in which the PCs encountered
it in a nonlinear adventure.
Accomplishments
Characters’ actions that move the story forward—like
securing a major alliance, establishing an organization,
or causing an NPC to have a change of heart—are
considered accomplishments and should be rewarded
with XP. Their significance determines the size of the
XP award. Determine whether the achievement was a
minor, moderate, or major accomplishment, and refer
to Table  10–8: XP Awards on page 508 to award an
appropriate amount of XP. Minor accomplishments
include all sorts of significant, memorable, or surprising
moments in the game. A moderate accomplishment
typically represents a goal that takes most of a session
to complete, and a major accomplishment is usually
the culmination of the characters’ efforts across many
sessions. Moderate and major accomplishments usually
come after heroic effort, so that’s an ideal time to also give
a Hero Point to one or more of the characters involved.
As mentioned earlier, it’s up to you how much XP to
give out for accomplishments. As a general guideline, in
a given game session, you’ll typically give several minor
awards, one or two moderate awards, and only one
major award, if any.
Rewards
In Pathfinder, player characters can receive three kinds of rewards for their heroic deeds:
Hero Points, which they can use to get out of sticky situations; Experience Points, which
they’ll use to level up; and treasure, including powerful magic items.
GAME MASTERING
507
10
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Skills
Feats
Equipment
Spells
The Age of
Lost OMENS
Playing the
Game
Game
mastering
Crafting
& Treasure
Appendix
