in the frozen reaches of Irrisen and beyond in the Crown of the World. The vourinoi
elves of Garund’s deserts are the most secretive of the elven ethnicities.
Gnomes
The first gnomes arrived on Golarion at some point after Earthfall from the
otherworldly dimension known as the First World, fleeing a terror whose nature
few can recall. Since that time, gnomes have transitioned fully to creatures of the
Material Plane, although they all live in fear of the life-threatening condition known
as bleaching. Feychild gnomes are the most widespread. Glimmer gnomes retain a
stronger tie to the First World, while others known as fell gnomes have embraced
the darker traditions of their fey heritage. Keenspark gnomes (jokingly referred to
as “sour gnomes”) seek to avoid the bleaching by exploring new innovations rather
than seeking new experiences or exploring the world.
Goblins
Although many adventurers might assume a goblin is a goblin, these scrappy and
creative people are as diverse as any other ancestry. The most widespread are the rasp
goblins, so named for the large numbers who have traditionally dwelled along the
rugged coastlines of Varisia’s west coast, a region known as the Rasp. Forest goblins
tend to be smaller than the other ethnicities and are located mostly in central Avistan.
Their numbers are only now beginning to recover from the horrors of the Goblinblood
Wars. The frost goblins of Irrisen’s eternal winter are unusual among their kind for their
propensity to grow blue fur on their bodies, while the monkey goblins of Mediogalti
Island are known for their prehensile tails and arboreal habitats.
Halflings
Many halflings have lived in the shadow of other societies for as long as they can
remember, living in much the same way as their neighboring cultures and adding
their own unique variations over time or as necessity demands. However, numerous
distinct halfling cultures exist outside of the context of other peoples and nations.
In some cases, these divisions were fueled by separation and circumstances, such as
the oppressed halflings of Cheliax who have been forced into slavery, and the Song’o
halflings of the Mwangi Expanse, who hid from all other cultures to avoid a similar
fate. Other halflings, such as the jaric, mihrini, othoban, and uhlam halflings, simply
formed their own traditions without the influence of humans and other creatures.
Regional Languages
These languages are uncommon outside the region of their genesis. A character hailing
from one of the regions listed below automatically has access to that language. In the
Inner Sea region, the language referred to as Common elsewhere in the rules is the same
as Taldane—a result of Taldor’s legacy of control and influence over the whole region.
Nearly every language listed here is spoken on the melting-pot streets of Absalom.
TABLE 8–1: REGIONAL LANGUAGES
Language	 Regions
Hallit
Irrisen, Mendev, Numeria, Realm of the Mammoth Lords, Sarkoris, Ustalav
Kelish
Katapesh, Kelesh, Osirion, Qadira
Mwangi
Mwangi Expanse, the Shackles, Thuvia, Vidrian
Osiriani
Geb, Katapesh, Mana Wastes, Nex, Osirion, Rahadoum, Thuvia
Shoanti
Hold of Belkzen, Varisia
Skald
Irrisen, Lands of the Linnorm Kings
Tien
Lands of the Linnorm Kings, Realm of the Mammoth Lords, Tian Xia
Varisian
Brevoy, the Gravelands, Nidal, Nirmathas, Ustalav, Varisia
Vudrani
Jalmeray, Katapesh, Nex, Vudra
DWARF
ELF
GNOME
HALFLING
Core Rulebook
432
GOBLIN
HALF-ELF
HALF-ORC
