Your animal companion has become cunning enough to become
specialized. Your animal companion gains one specialization of
your choice. (See the Animal Companion section on page 214.)
UBIQUITOUS SNARES
FEAT 16
RANGER
Prerequisites Snare Specialist
You can prepare a seemingly impossible number of snares in
advance, and you’re ready to spring them on unsuspecting foes.
Double the number of prepared snares from Snare Specialist.
18TH LEVEL
IMPOSSIBLE FLURRY [three-actions]
FEAT 18
FLOURISH
OPEN
RANGER
Requirements You are wielding two melee weapons, each in a
different hand.
You forgo precision to attack at an impossible speed. Make
three melee Strikes with each of the required weapons. All of
these Strikes take the maximum multiple attack penalty, as if
you had already made two or more attacks this turn.
IMPOSSIBLE VOLLEY [three-actions]
FEAT 18
RANGER
Requirements You are wielding a ranged weapon with the
volley trait and reload 0.
You fire a volley at all foes in an area. Make one Strike with a
–2 penalty against each enemy within a 10-foot-radius burst
centered at or beyond your weapon’s volley range. Roll the
damage only once for all targets.
Each attack counts toward your multiple attack penalty,
but do not increase your penalty until you have made all
your attacks.
MANIFOLD EDGE
FEAT 18
RANGER
Prerequisites hunter’s edge, masterful hunter
You’ve learned every possible edge to use against your foes.
When you use Hunt Prey, you can gain a hunter’s edge benefit
other than the one you selected at 1st level. If you do, you
don’t gain the additional benefit from masterful hunter.
MASTERFUL COMPANION
FEAT 18
RANGER
Prerequisites masterful hunter, Animal Companion
Your animal companion shares your incredible hunting skills,
allowing it to take down your shared prey with ease. When
you Hunt Prey, your animal companion gains the masterful
hunter benefit associated with your hunter’s edge, rather than
just your original hunter’s edge benefit.
PERFECT SHOT [three-actions]
FEAT 18
FLOURISH
RANGER
Requirements You are wielding a loaded ranged weapon with
reload 1 or more, and you have not reloaded your weapon
since your last turn.
After watching the motions of combat with incredible intensity
and precision, you fire at your prey at the perfect moment to
deliver maximum pain. Make a ranged Strike with the required
weapon against your hunted prey. If you hit, the Strike deals
maximum damage. After the Strike, your turn ends.
SHADOW HUNTER
FEAT 18
RANGER
Prerequisites Camouflage
You blend in to your surroundings so well that others have
trouble telling you apart from the terrain. While in natural
terrain, you’re always concealed from all foes if you choose to
be, except for your hunted prey.
20TH LEVEL
LEGENDARY SHOT
FEAT 20
RANGER
Prerequisites masterful hunter, legendary in Perception, Far Shot
You focus on your hunted prey, perceiving angles, air
resistance, and every variable that would affect your ranged
attack. If you have master proficiency with your ranged
weapon, you can ignore the penalty for attacking up to five
range increments away when attacking your hunted prey.
TO THE ENDS OF THE EARTH
FEAT 20
RANGER
Prerequisites legendary in Survival
Your ability to track your prey has surpassed explanation,
allowing you to trace your prey’s movements and predict its
location with ease. When you use Hunt Prey on a creature
within 100 feet, you can follow that creature’s movements,
allowing you to know the creature’s exact location no matter
how far away it becomes, as long as it remains your prey. You
must be legendary in Nature to track your prey’s location across
teleportation or planar travel. This feat gains the detection,
divination, and primal traits if you’re legendary in Nature.
TRIPLE THREAT
FEAT 20
RANGER
Prerequisites Shared Prey
You can divide your attention three ways when hunting. When
you use Hunt Prey, you can designate three creatures as prey,
designate two creatures as prey and share the effect with one
ally (as Shared Prey), or designate one creature as prey and
share the effect with two allies.
ULTIMATE SKIRMISHER
FEAT 20
RANGER
Prerequisites wild stride
You are so skilled at navigating the wild, your movement is
completely unaffected by terrain. You ignore the effects of
all difficult terrain, greater difficult terrain, and hazardous
terrain, and you don’t trigger traps and hazards that are
triggered by moving into an area (such as trip wires and
pressure plates), unless you want to.
177
3
CLASSES
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Skills
Feats
Equipment
Spells
The Age of
Lost OMENS
Playing the
Game
Game
mastering
Crafting
& Treasure
Appendix
