Usage affixed to a weapon; Bulk —
Activate [reaction] envision; Trigger A creature within your reach
uses a manipulate or move action, makes a ranged attack, or
leaves a square during a move action it’s using; Requirements
You are a master with the affixed weapon.
When you activate this resin-strengthened viper skull, you
make an Attack of Opportunity against the triggering creature.
If you have Attack of Opportunity, you can activate the
viper’s fang as a free action.
WOLF FANG
ITEM 1
CONSUMABLE
 EVOCATION
 MAGICAL
 TALISMAN
Price 4 gp
Usage affixed to armor; Bulk —
Activate [free-action] envision; Trigger
You successfully Trip a foe;
Requirements You are trained in Athletics.
This wolf canine is bound in a strip of leather and
tied to a buckle or strap of a suit of armor. When you
activate the fang, you deal bludgeoning damage equal to
your Strength modifier to the target of your Trip. If your
Trip would already deal physical damage that doesn’t
include an ability modifier, add your Strength modifier to
that damage.
Other Consumables
Though many consumables are grouped into
specific categories, such as potions and talismans, some
consumables don’t fit into those categories.
CANDLE OF TRUTH
ITEM 8
UNCOMMON
 CONSUMABLE
 ENCHANTMENT
 MAGICAL
 MENTAL
Price 75 gp
Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk —
Activate [one-action] Interact
This tapered candle has a golden wick that burns with white fire.
You activate the candle by lighting it, which causes creatures
within 10 feet of the candle to find it difficult to tell falsehoods.
Creatures in the area receive a –4 status penalty to Lie.
In addition, when first entering the affected area, each
creature (including you) must succeed at a DC 26 Will save or
be unable to tell any deliberate lies while within 10 feet of the
lit candle. This lasts for as long as the candle is lit. Once lit, the
candle burns for 10 minutes, and it cannot be extinguished.
DUST OF APPEARANCE
ITEM 6
CONSUMABLE
 DIVINATION
 MAGICAL
Price 50 gp
Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk —
Activate [one-action] Interact
Stored in a small reed, this powder looks like a fine metallic
dust. When you fling it in the air, it coats all creatures in a
10-foot burst centered on a point within 5 feet of you. For 1
minute, the coated creatures can’t be concealed or invisible,
nor can they benefit from mirror image or similar abilities
that create illusory duplicates. Any illusions in the area of
3rd level or lower are revealed as such, although this does
not end their effect.
DUST OF DISAPPEARANCE
ITEM 9
CONSUMABLE
 ILLUSION
 MAGICAL
Price 135 gp
Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk —
Activate [one-action] Interact
This powder shimmers like a thousand tiny motes of light.
Activating the dust by sprinkling it on yourself or a creature
within reach casts a 4th-level invisibility spell with a
duration of 1 minute on that creature. This invisibility can’t
be negated or seen through by any spell of 3rd level or
lower or any item of 5th level or lower.
ELEMENTAL GEM
ITEM 10
CONJURATION
 CONSUMABLE
 MAGICAL
Price 200 gp
Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk —
Activate [two-actions] command, Interact
You shout the name of an elemental lord and
dash this glassy gem against a hard surface
to activate it. It cracks open, casting a 5th-level
summon elemental spell to summon forth an
elemental you control as long as you spend an action
each round to Sustain the Activation.
This gem comes in four varieties: transparent for a living
whirlwind, light brown for a living landslide, reddish orange
for a living wildfire, and blue-green for a living waterfall.
FEATHER TOKEN
ITEM 1+
CONJURATION
 CONSUMABLE
 MAGICAL
Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk —
Activate [one-action] Interact
Each feather token appears to be a simple feather from some
exotic bird. The feather’s shaft, dipped in gold, bears a single
arcane rune. Activating a feather token causes it to transform
into another object, which then can be used as normal for that
object. Each feather can be activated only once, with most of
them permanently becoming the item in their description.
Type anchor; Level 7; Price 55 gp
This feather can be activated only on a boat. When activated,
this feather transforms into a massive anchor that causes the
boat to immediately stop. After 1 day, the anchor vanishes and
the boat can move as normal. The anchor is attached to the
boat by a magical chain of force, but the chain can be removed
by dispel magic or destroyed (Hardness 30, HP 40).
Type bird; Level 3; Price 8 gp
When activated, this token transforms into a small sparrow that
waits on your finger for you to relay a message up to 1 minute in
length, along with the name and rough location of a recipient.
The recipient must be someone you have met, and the location
must be somewhere you have visited. After receiving the
message, the bird flies off to deliver it, traveling at 30 miles
per hour and then searching for the target in the location you
provided. If the bird finds the target, it moves adjacent to them,
Core Rulebook
570
