Attack Rolls
When making an attack roll, determine the result by
rolling 1d20 and adding your attack modifier for the
weapon or unarmed attack you’re using. Modifiers for
melee and ranged attacks are calculated differently.
Melee attack modifier = Strength modifier (or
optionally Dexterity for a finesse weapon) +
proficiency bonus + other bonuses + penalties
Ranged attack modifier = Dexterity modifier +
proficiency bonus + other bonuses + penalties
Bonuses, and penalties apply to these rolls just like
with other types of checks. Weapons with potency runes
(page 581) add an item bonus to your attack rolls.
Multiple Attack Penalty
If you use an action with the attack trait more than once
on the same turn, your attacks after the first take a penalty
called a multiple attack penalty. Your second attack takes a
–5 penalty, and any subsequent attacks take a –10 penalty.
The multiple attack penalty doesn’t apply to attacks
you make when it isn’t your turn (such as attacks made as
part of a reaction). You can use a weapon with the agile
trait (page 282) to reduce your multiple attack penalty.
Damage Rolls
When the result of your attack roll with a weapon or
unarmed attack equals or exceeds your target’s AC, you
hit your target! Roll the weapon or unarmed attack’s
damage die and add the relevant modifiers, bonuses, and
penalties to determine the amount of damage you deal.
Calculate a damage roll as follows.
Melee damage roll = damage die of weapon or unarmed
attack + Strength modifier + bonuses + penalties
Ranged damage roll = damage die of weapon + Strength
modifier for thrown weapons + bonuses + penalties
Ranged weapons don’t normally add an ability modifier
to the damage roll, though weapons with the propulsive
trait (page 283) add half your Strength modifier (or your
full modifier if it is a negative number), and thrown
weapons add your full Strength modifier.
Magic weapons with striking, greater striking, or
major striking runes (page 581) add one or more weapon
damage dice to your damage roll. These extra dice are
the same die size as the weapon’s damage die. At higher
levels, most characters also gain extra damage from
weapon specialization.
Critical Hits
When you make an attack and roll a natural 20 (the
number on the die is 20), or if the result of your attack
exceeds the target’s AC by 10, you achieve a critical
success (also known as a critical hit).
If you critically succeed at a Strike, your attack deals
double damage (page 451). Other attacks, such as spell
attack rolls and some uses of the Athletics skill, describe
the specific effects that occur when their outcomes are
critical successes.
Unarmed Attacks
Almost all characters start out trained in unarmed
attacks. You can Strike with your fist or another body
part, calculating your attack and damage rolls in the
same way you would with a weapon. Unarmed attacks
can belong to a weapon group (page 280), and they
might have weapon traits (page 282). However, unarmed
attacks aren’t weapons, and effects and abilities that
work with weapons never work with unarmed attacks
unless they specifically say so.
Table 6–6: Unarmed Attacks lists the statistics for an
unarmed attack with a fist, though you’ll usually use the
same statistics for attacks made with any other parts
of your body. Certain ancestry feats, class features, and
spells give access to special, more powerful unarmed
attacks. Details for those unarmed attacks are provided
in the abilities that grant them.
Improvised Weapons
If you attack with something that wasn’t built to be a
weapon, such as a chair or a vase, you’re making an
attack with an improvised weapon. You take a –2 item
penalty to attack rolls with an improvised weapon.
The GM determines the amount and type of damage
the attack deals, if any, as well as any weapon traits the
improvised weapon should have.
Weapons
Most characters in Pathfinder carry weapons, ranging from mighty warhammers to graceful
bows to even simple clubs. Full details on how you calculate the bonuses, modifiers, and
penalties for attack rolls and damage rolls are given in Chapter 9 on page 446, but they’re
summarized here, followed by the rules for weapons and dozens of weapon choices.
Core Rulebook
278
