Class Features
You gain these abilities as a cleric. Abilities gained at
higher levels list requisite levels next to their names.
Ancestry and Background
In addition to the abilities provided by your class at 1st
level, you have the benefits of your selected ancestry and
background, as described in Chapter 2.
Initial Proficiencies
At 1st level, you gain a number of proficiencies that
represent your basic training, noted at the start of this class.
Deity
As a cleric, you are a mortal servitor of a deity you revere
above all others. The most common deities in Pathfinder
appear on pages 437–440, along with their alignments,
areas of concern, and the benefits you get for being a
cleric of that deity. Your alignment must be one allowed
by your deity, as listed in their entry. Your deity grants
you the trained proficiency rank in one skill and with
the deity’s favored weapon. If the favored weapon is
uncommon, you also get access to that weapon.
Your deity also adds spells to your spell list. You can
prepare these just like you can any spell on the divine spell
list, once you can prepare spells of their level as a cleric.
Some of these spells aren’t normally on the divine list, but
they’re divine spells if you prepare them this way.
Anathema
Acts fundamentally opposed to your deity’s alignment
or ideals are anathema to your faith. Learning or casting
spells, committing acts, and using items that are anathema
to your deity remove you from your deity’s good graces.
Casting spells with the evil trait is almost always
anathema to good deities, and casting good spells is
likewise anathema to evil deities; similarly, casting
chaotic spells is anathema to lawful deities, and casting
lawful spells is anathema to chaotic deities. A neutral
cleric who worships a neutral deity isn’t limited this
way, but their alignment might change over time if
they frequently cast spells or use abilities with a certain
alignment. Similarly, casting spells that are anathema to
the tenets or goals of your faith could interfere with your
connection to your deity. For example, casting a spell
to create undead would be anathema to Pharasma, the
goddess of death. For borderline cases, you and your GM
determine which acts are anathema.
If you perform enough acts that are anathema to your
deity, or if your alignment changes to one not allowed by
your deity, you lose the magical abilities that come from
your connection to your deity. The class features that you
lose are determined by the GM, but they likely include
your divine font and all divine spellcasting. These abilities
can be regained only if you demonstrate your repentance
by conducting an atone ritual (found on page 409).
Divine Spellcasting
Your deity bestows on you the power to cast divine spells.
You can cast divine spells using the Cast a Spell activity, and
you can supply material, somatic, and verbal components
when casting spells (see Casting Spells on page 302). Because
you’re a cleric, you can usually hold a divine focus (such as a
religious symbol) for spells requiring material components
instead of needing to use a spell component pouch.
At 1st level, you can prepare two 1st-level spells and
five cantrips each morning from the common spells on
the divine spell list in this book (page 309) or from other
divine spells to which you gain access. Prepared spells
remain available to you until you cast them or until you
prepare your spells again. The number of spells you can
prepare is called your spell slots.
As you increase in level as a cleric, the number of spells
you can prepare each day increases, as does the highest
level of spell you can cast, as shown in Table 3–9: Cleric
Spells per Day on page 120.
Some of your spells require you to attempt a spell
attack roll to see how effective they are, or your enemies
to roll against your spell DC (typically by attempting a
saving throw). Since your key ability is Wisdom, your
spell attack rolls and spell DCs use your Wisdom modifier.
Details on calculating these statistics appear on page 447.
TABLE 3–8: CLERIC ADVANCEMENT
Your
Level	 Class Features
1
Ancestry and background, initial proficiencies, deity,

divine spellcasting, divine font, doctrine
2
Cleric feat, skill feat
3
2nd-level spells, general feat, second doctrine, skill increase
4
Cleric feat, skill feat
5
3rd-level spells, ability boosts, alertness, ancestry

feat, skill increase
6
Cleric feat, skill feat
7
4th-level spells, general feat, skill increase, third doctrine
8
Cleric feat, skill feat
9
5th-level spells, ancestry feat, resolve, skill increase
10
Ability boosts, cleric feat, skill feat
11
6th-level spells, fourth doctrine, general feat,

lightning reflexes, skill increase
12
Cleric feat, skill feat
13
7th-level spells, ancestry feat, divine defense, skill

increase, weapon specialization
14
Cleric feat, skill feat
15
8th-level spells, ability boosts, fifth doctrine, general

feat, skill increase
16
Cleric feat, skill feat
17
9th-level spells, ancestry feat, skill increase
18
Cleric feat, skill feat
19
Final doctrine, general feat, miraculous spell, skill increase
20
Ability boosts, cleric feat, skill feat
Core Rulebook
118
