You gain a 1st-level metamagic wizard feat as a bonus
feat. Starting at 4th level, during your daily preparations,
you can gain a metamagic wizard feat of your choice that
has a level requirement of no more than half your level,
which you can use until your next daily preparations.
Spell Blending
You theorize that spell slots are a shorthand for an
underlying energy that powers all spellcasting, and
you’ve found a way to tinker with the hierarchy of spell
slots, combining them to fuel more powerful spells.
When you make your daily preparations, you can trade
two spell slots of the same level for a bonus spell slot of
up to 2 levels higher than the traded spell slots. You can
exchange as many spell slots as you have available.
Bonus spell slots must be of a level you can normally
cast, and each bonus spell slot must be of a different
spell level. You can also trade any spell slot for two
additional cantrips, though you cannot trade more
than one spell slot at a time for additional cantrips in
this way.
Spell Substitution
You don’t accept the fact that once spells are prepared,
they can’t be changed until your next daily preparation,
and you have uncovered a shortcut allowing you to
substitute new spells for those you originally prepared.
You can spend 10 minutes to empty one of your
prepared spell slots and prepare a different spell from
your spellbook in its place. If you are interrupted during
such a swap, the original spell remains prepared and can
still be cast. You can try again to swap out the spell later,
but you must start the process over again.
Wizard Feats
At 1st level and every even-numbered level thereafter, you
gain a wizard class feat. These feats begin on page 209.
Skill Feats
2nd
At 2nd level and every 2 levels thereafter, you gain
a skill feat. Skill feats can be found in Chapter 5 and
have the skill trait. You must be trained or better in the
corresponding skill to select a skill feat.
General Feats
3rd
At 3rd level and every 4 levels thereafter, you gain a
general feat. General feats are listed in Chapter 5.
Skill Increases
3rd
At 3rd level and every 2 levels thereafter, you gain a skill
increase. You can use this increase either to increase your
proficiency rank to trained in one skill you’re untrained
in, or to increase your proficiency rank in one skill in
which you’re already trained to expert.
At 7th level, you can use skill increases to increase
your proficiency rank to master in a skill in which you’re
SAMPLE SPELLBOOK
You can fill your spellbook with whichever spells you like,
but the list below covers a good selection of starter spells
for a 1st-level wizard. These are the exact spells found
in Structure and Interpretation of Arcane Magic, a basic
spellbook used by arcane academies and master wizards
to teach apprentices good habits in arcane research.
Cantrips: Acid splash, detect magic, electric arc, light,
mage hand, message, prestidigitation, ray of frost, shield,
and study aura.
1st Level: Burning hands, color spray, grease, mage
armor, and magic missile, plus one spell of your school if
you’re a specialist wizard.
Core Rulebook
206
