The empire of Taldor was historically the heart of the
Shining Kingdoms. In the early Age of Enthronement,
Taldor sent several Armies of Exploration to expand
the nation’s borders and colonize the surrounding lands.
Today, Taldor is but a shadow of its former glory, but after
a recent bout of internal strife, a progressive new empress
has claimed the crown, and Taldor may be on the path to
recover its old glory for the first time in centuries.
To the west, the democratic nation of Andoran stands
as a rising star on the international stage. Ever since the
province seceded from the nation of Cheliax, Andoran’s
military has helped to stem the flow of slavery, and its
heroes have stood tall against all manner of peril to the
common folk. But the future doesn’t look entirely bright
for Andoran, for with Cheliax’s recent upsets, rumors
flow that House Thrune may seek to reclaim control
of its wayward thrall. Given the looming threat of the
Whispering Tyrant, an all-out war between these two
powerful nations could be disastrous.
Northeast of Andoran sprawls the dwarven city-states
of the Five Kings Mountains. No strangers to war, both
against enemies and among themselves, the dwarves of the
Five Kings remain allies of Andoran but have their own
troubles that command most of their attention. To the
west of the dwarven realm, the rich and powerful nation
of Druma controls nearly half of the lake’s southern
shoreline and uses its position to bolster its coffers and
further the teachings of the Prophecies of Kalistrade,
a philosophy that teaches that wealth can be achieved
through adherence to strict and abstemious practices.
Northeast of Druma lie the forested elven lands
of Kyonin, one of Avistan’s oldest nations. This land
belonged to the elves long before Earthfall, but for
thousands of years after that devastation, they left their
realm abandoned. In that time, a powerful demon named
Treerazer seized control of the forest’s southern reaches,
corrupting the terrain into a swampy, desolate mire called
Tanglebriar. Although the elves have returned, they’ve
been unable to force Treerazer from their southern border.
Still farther east is the nation of Galt. Wracked for
decades by a self-perpetuating series of rebellions and
revolutions, this land has been torn apart from within
over and over. Its people are tired and desperate as they
continue to live what lives they can in the shadow of the
final blades—powerful magical guillotines that claim the
souls of those they decapitate. If any of the regions of the
Shining Kingdoms is poised for significant change in the
near future, it is surely revolution-wracked Galt.
Shining Kingdoms
THE AGE OF LOST OMENS
429
8
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Skills
Feats
Equipment
Spells
The Age of
Lost OMENS
Playing the
Game
Game
mastering
Crafting
& Treasure
Appendix
