EXPERIENCED PROFESSIONAL
FEAT 1
GENERAL
SKILL
Prerequisites trained in Lore
You carefully safeguard your professional endeavors to prevent
disaster. When you use Lore to Earn Income, if you roll a critical
failure, you instead get a failure. If you’re an expert in Lore, you
gain twice as much income from a failed check to Earn Income,
unless it was originally a critical failure.
EXPERIENCED SMUGGLER
FEAT 1
GENERAL
SKILL
Prerequisites trained in Stealth
You often smuggle things past the authorities. When the GM
rolls your Stealth check to see if a passive observer notices a
small item you have concealed, the GM uses the number rolled
or 10—whichever is higher—as the result of your die roll, adding it
to your Stealth modifier to determine your Stealth check result.
If you’re a master in Stealth, the GM uses the number rolled or
15, and if you’re legendary in Stealth, you automatically succeed
at hiding a small concealed item from passive observers. This
provides no benefits when a creature attempts a Perception
check while actively searching you for hidden items. Due to
your smuggling skill, you’re more likely to find more lucrative
smuggling jobs when using Underworld Lore to Earn Income.
EXPERIENCED TRACKER
FEAT 1
GENERAL
SKILL
Prerequisites trained in Survival
Tracking is second nature to you, and when necessary you
can follow a trail without pause. You can Track while moving
at full Speed by taking a –5 penalty to your Survival check.
If you’re a master in Survival, you don’t take the –5 penalty.
If you’re legendary in Survival, you no longer need to roll a
new Survival check every hour when tracking, though you still
need to roll whenever there are significant changes in the trail.
FASCINATING PERFORMANCE
FEAT 1
GENERAL
SKILL
Prerequisites trained in Performance
When you Perform, compare your result to the Will DC of one
observer. If you succeed, the target is fascinated by you for 1
round. If the observer is in a situation that demands immediate
attention, such as combat, you must critically succeed to fascinate
it and the Perform action gains the incapacitation trait. You must
choose which creature you’re trying to fascinate before you roll
your check, and the target is then temporarily immune for 1 hour.
If you’re an expert in Performance, you can fascinate up
to four observers; if you’re a master, you can fascinate up to
10 observers; and if you’re legendary, you can fascinate any
number of observers at the same time.
FAST RECOVERY
FEAT 1
GENERAL
Prerequisites Constitution 14
Your body quickly bounces back from afflictions. You regain
twice as many Hit Points from resting. Each time you succeed
at a Fortitude save against an ongoing disease or poison, you
reduce its stage by 2, or by 1 against a virulent disease or poison.
Each critical success you achieve against an ongoing disease or
poison reduces its stage by 3, or by 2 against a virulent disease
or poison. In addition, you reduce the severity of your drained
condition by 2 when you rest for a night instead of by 1.
FEATHER STEP
FEAT 1
GENERAL
Prerequisites Dexterity 14
You step carefully and quickly. You can Step into difficult terrain.
FLEET
FEAT 1
GENERAL
You move more quickly on foot. Your Speed increases by 5 feet.
FOIL SENSES
FEAT 7
GENERAL
SKILL
Prerequisites master in Stealth
You are adept at foiling creatures’ special senses and cautious
enough to safeguard against them at all times. Whenever you
use the Avoid Notice, Hide, or Sneak actions, you are always
considered to be taking precautions against special senses
(see the Detecting with Other Senses sidebar on page 465).
FORAGER
FEAT 1
GENERAL
SKILL
Prerequisites trained in Survival
While using Survival to Subsist, if you roll any result worse than
a success, you get a success. On a success, you can provide
subsistence living for yourself and four additional creatures,
and on a critical success, you can take care of twice as many
creatures as on a success.
Each time your proficiency rank in Survival increases, double
the number of additional creatures you can take care of on a
success (to eight if you’re an expert, 16 if you’re a master, or 32
if you’re legendary). You can choose to care for half the number
of additional creatures and provide a comfortable living instead
of subsistence living.
Multiple smaller creatures or creatures with significantly
smaller appetites than a human are counted as a single creature
for this feat, and larger creatures or those with significantly
greater appetites each count as multiple creatures. The GM
determines how much a non-human creature needs to eat.
GLAD-HAND
FEAT 2
GENERAL
SKILL
Prerequisites expert in Diplomacy
First impressions are your strong suit. When you meet
someone in a casual or social situation, you can immediately
attempt a Diplomacy check to Make an Impression on that
creature rather than needing to converse for 1 minute. You
take a –5 penalty to the check. If you fail or critically fail, you
can engage in 1 minute of conversation and attempt a new
check at the end of that time rather than accepting the failure
or critical failure result.
FEATS
5
261
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Skills
Feats
Equipment
Spells
The Age of
Lost OMENS
Playing the
Game
Game
mastering
Crafting
& Treasure
Appendix
