Skill Increases 
3rd
At 3rd level and every 2 levels thereafter, you gain a skill
increase. You can use this increase either to increase your
proficiency rank to trained in one skill you’re untrained
in, or to increase your proficiency rank in one skill in
which you’re already trained to expert.
At 7th level, you can use skill increases to increase
your proficiency rank to master in a skill in which you’re
already an expert, and at 15th level, you can use them to
increase your proficiency rank to legendary in a skill in
which you’re already a master.
Ability Boosts 
5th
At 5th level and every 5 levels thereafter, you boost four
different ability scores. You can use these ability boosts to
increase your ability scores above 18. Boosting an ability
score increases it by 1 if it’s already 18 or above, or by 2
if it starts out below 18.
Ancestry Feats 
5th
In addition to the ancestry feat you started with, you gain
an ancestry feat at 5th level and every 4 levels thereafter.
The list of ancestry feats available to you can be found in
your ancestry’s entry in Chapter 2.
Field Discovery 
5th
You learn a special discovery depending on your field.
Bomber: When using advanced alchemy to make
bombs during your daily preparations, you can use a
batch of reagents to create any three bombs instead of
just two of the same bomb.
Chirurgeon: When using advanced alchemy to make
elixirs of life during your daily preparations, you can
create three elixirs with each batch of reagents instead
of two.
Mutagenist: When using advanced alchemy to make
mutagens during your daily preparations, you can use a
batch of reagents to create any three mutagens instead of
just two of the same mutagen.
Alchemical Weapon Expertise
7th
You’ve trained to more effectively wield the weapons
you find in your lab. Your proficiency ranks for simple
weapons and alchemical bombs increase to expert.
Iron Will
7th
Your mental defenses are an iron fortress. Your proficiency
rank for Will saves increases to expert.
Perpetual Infusions 
7th
You have learned how to create perpetual alchemical
infusions that can provide a near-infinite supply of certain
simple items. You gain the ability to create two 1st-level
alchemical items using Quick Alchemy without spending a
batch of infused reagents. The items you can select depend
on your research field and must be in your formula book.
Chirurgeon
You use alchemy for medicinal purposes, healing
and protecting others across the lands.
ABILITY SCORES
Prioritize Intelligence and Wisdom. Constitution
increases your survivability, and Dexterity helps you
hit with ranged attacks when violence is necessary.
SKILLS
Crafting, Diplomacy, Medicine, Nature, Occultism,
Religion, Society, Survival
RESEARCH FIELD
Chirurgeon
STARTING FEAT
Alchemical Savant
HIGHER-LEVEL FEATS
Poison Resistance (2nd), Efficient Alchemy (4th),
Combine Elixirs (6th), Merciful Elixir (10th), Greater
Merciful Elixir (14th), Miracle Worker (18th), Craft
Philosopher’s Stone (20th)
Core Rulebook
74
SAMPLE ALCHEMIST
