(possible only if their mirror duplicate is dead), Thievery
DC 39 (master) to permanently disable the mirror once
all mirror duplicates are dead, or dispel magic (7th level;
counteract DC 32) to counteract the mirror for 1 minute and
prevent additional replacements during that time
AC 34; Fort +25, Ref +20
Hardness 1, HP 4 (BT 2), the mirror can’t be damaged while
any mirror duplicate is alive
Reflection of Evil [reaction] (arcane, conjuration, teleportation);
Trigger A non-evil creature is reflected in the mirror. Effect
The mirror absorbs the creature into the mirror, replacing it
with an evil mirror duplicate (DC 34 Reflex to avoid being
absorbed into the mirror), and rolls initiative.
Routine (1 action) The mirror absorbs another reflected
creature into the mirror and replaces it with a mirror
duplicate. Mirror duplicates attack on their own initiative,
using the same statistics as the original creature, but with
an evil alignment (changing only abilities that shift with the
alignment change). A mirror duplicate can spend 3 actions in
contact with the mirror to return to its original dimension and
release the creature it duplicated, but most mirror duplicates
prefer not to.
Reset The mirror is always ready to absorb creatures into the
other dimension. Ten minutes after a creature is sucked into
the mirror, if an ally doesn’t rescue the creature with Thievery,
it reaches the other dimension, where it might be captured or
killed. In the mirror dimension, it counts as a mirror duplicate,
so the denizens of the other dimension can’t destroy the
mirror on their side while the absorbed creature is there.
These dimensions are alternate realities, not planes, so even
rituals like plane shift can’t reach them.
BANSHEE’S SYMPHONY
HAZARD 18
COMPLEX
MAGICAL
TRAP
Stealth +30 (legendary)
Description A magically contagious wail of the banshee spell
is trapped in the larynx of an invisible, mummified elf.
Disable Thievery DC 42 (master) to pierce the invisible larynx
so precisely that the magic releases in a trickle before the
trap activates, Thievery DC 44 (legendary) three times to
deconstruct the larynx while the trap is active in such a
way that it tears the spell apart, or spell DC 38 (9th level) to
counteract the wail of the banshee before the trap activates
Scream [reaction] Trigger Three or more living creatures remain
within 100 feet of the trap for 6 seconds or longer. Effect
The trap releases an arcane wail of the banshee (DC 40) with
a 100-foot-radius emanation instead of 40 feet, targeting all
living creatures in the area, and rolls initiative.
Routine (1 action) The trap uses its action to force one random
creature that failed its save against wail of the banshee last
turn to emit a wail of the banshee with the same statistics as
the initial one. The creature wails even if it is dead or unable
to speak, no matter how far away from the trap it is. Unlike a
casting of the spell, the drained condition from this trap’s wail
of the banshee spells increases the targets’ drained condition
values. A creature that critically succeeds at any of its saves
can still be affected by the trap on future rounds, but can’t be
forced to wail by the trap.
Reset The trap ends when the trap is unable to make a
creature scream (usually because no creature failed its save
on the previous turn or because all creatures have critically
succeeded in the past). It then resets over 24 hours, as a new
scream builds up in the mummified larynx.
GAME MASTERING
529
10
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Skills
Feats
Equipment
Spells
The Age of
Lost OMENS
Playing the
Game
Game
mastering
Crafting
& Treasure
Appendix
