Price
If an item is available for purchase, a character can
typically buy it for the listed Price, and the character uses
this Price when they use the Craft activity to make the
item. If a character wants to sell an item, they can sell it
for half its Price (or full Price, if the item was made on
commission), assuming they’re able to find a buyer. The
GM determines whether a buyer is available.
Usage
An item’s stat block includes a Usage entry that indicates
whether a character must be holding or wearing the item
in order to use it, or whether she instead must have it
etched or affixed onto another item.
Held or Worn
If a character must wield the item to use it, this entry in
the item’s stat block lists the word “held” along with the
number of hands the character must use when wielding
the item, such as “held in 1 hand.” The rules for carrying
and using items are provided on page 271.
An item that needs to be worn to function lists “worn”
as its usage. This is followed by another word if the
character is limited to only one of that type of item. For
instance, a character can wear any number of rings, so the
entry for a ring would list only “worn.” However, if the
Usage entry were “worn cloak,” then a character couldn’t
wear another cloak on top of that one. It’s assumed that
items are meant to be worn by humanoids; any item
that can or must be worn by a different type of creature
either states this in its description or has the companion
trait. Most magic items a character must wear have the
invested trait, as described on page 531.
Affixed or Etched
Some items enhance other items. Talismans function
only if affixed to other items. They have a Usage
entry indicating the type or types of items to which a
character can attach them, such as “affixed to armor.”
Rules for affixing a talisman are on page 565.
Runes must be etched onto permanent items, such as
armor, weapons, or runestones (found on page 571) to
grant their benefit. Adding or transferring a rune takes
downtime to accomplish. The Usage entry indicates the
type or types of items a rune can be etched into, such
as “etched onto a weapon.” More information about
etching runes is on page 580.
Craft Requirements
An item might require the crafter to provide specific raw
materials, supply spells, have a certain alignment, or meet
other special requirements to Craft it. These appear in the
Craft Requirements entry of the stat block. Every item
also has default requirements. The crafter must provide
half the item’s Price in raw materials (as explained in
the Craft activity on page 244). In addition, creating
alchemical items requires the Alchemical Crafting feat
(page 258), creating magic items requires the Magical
Crafting feat (page 263), and crafting snares requires the
Snare Crafting feat (page 266). Finally, crafting higher-
level items requires greater proficiency in Crafting.
Unless stated otherwise, creating items of 9th level and
higher requires you to have the master proficiency rank
in Crafting, and items of 16th level and higher require
legendary Crafting.
NOTABLE ITEM TRAITS
The following traits apply to items. Some specific
categories of item have special traits—such as elixir or
scroll—described in their sections.
Alchemical: Alchemical items are powered by the
reactions of alchemical reagents. Alchemical items aren’t
magical, and they don’t radiate a magical aura. Characters
can Craft these items only if they have the Alchemical
Crafting feat (page 258).
Consumable: An item with this trait can be used only
once. Unless stated otherwise, it’s destroyed after activation,
though, part of it might be recoverable for other purposes.
For instance, while a potion is consumable, the vial it comes
in is not destroyed when you drink it. Consumable items
include alchemical items (page 543) as well as ammunition
oils, potions, scrolls, snares, talismans, and other magical
consumables (which begin on page 559).
When a character creates consumable items, she
can make them in batches of four, as described in
Consumables and Ammunition (page 245).
Focused: An item with this trait can give you an
additional Focus Point. This focus point is separate from
your focus pool and doesn’t count toward the cap on your
focus pool. You can gain this benefit only if you have a
focus pool, and there might be restrictions on how the
point can be used. You can’t gain more than 1 Focus
Point per day from focused items, no matter how many
focused items you have.
Invested: A character can wear only 10 magical items
that have the invested trait. None of the magical effects
of the item apply if the character hasn’t invested it,
though the character still gains any normal benefits from
wearing the physical item (like a hat keeping rain off a
character’s head).
Magical: Items with this trait are imbued with magical
energies. Each one radiates a magic aura infused with
its dominant school of magic (abjuration, conjuration,
divination, enchantment, evocation, illusion, necromancy,
or transmutation; these are described on pages 297–298).
A character can craft these items only if she has the
Magical Crafting feat (page 263).
Some items are closely tied to a particular tradition of
magic. In these cases, the item has the arcane, divine,
occult, or primal trait instead of the magical trait. Any of
these traits indicates that the item is magical.
535
11
Crafting & Treasure
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Skills
Feats
Equipment
Spells
The Age of
Lost OMENS
Playing the
Game
Game
mastering
Crafting
& Treasure
Appendix
