Heightened (4th) The spell effect emanates from the touched
creature, silencing all sound in or passing through a 10-
foot radius and preventing any auditory and sonic effects
in the affected area. While within the radius, creatures are
subject to the same effects as the target. Depending upon
the position of the effect, a creature might notice the lack
of sound reaching it (blocking off the noise coming from a
party, for example).
SLEEP
SPELL 1
ENCHANTMENT
INCAPACITATION
MENTAL
SLEEP
Traditions arcane, occult
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal
Range 30 feet; Area 5-foot burst
Saving Throw Will
Each creature in the area becomes drowsy and might fall
asleep. A creature that falls unconscious from this spell
doesn’t fall prone or release what it’s holding. This spell
doesn’t prevent creatures from waking up due to a successful
Perception check, limiting its utility in combat.
Critical Success The creature is unaffected.
Success The creature takes a –1 status penalty to Perception
checks for 1 round.
Failure The creature falls unconscious. If it’s still unconscious
after 1 minute, it wakes up automatically.
Critical Failure The creature falls unconscious. If it’s still
unconscious after 1 hour, it wakes up automatically.
Heightened (4th) The creatures fall unconscious for 1 round on
a failure or 1 minute on a critical failure. They fall prone and
release what they’re holding, and they can’t attempt Perception
checks to wake up. When the duration ends, the creature is
sleeping normally instead of automatically waking up.
SLOW
SPELL 3
TRANSMUTATION
Traditions arcane, occult, primal
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal
Range 30 feet; Targets 1 creature
Saving Throw Fortitude; Duration 1 minute
You dilate the flow of time around the target, slowing its actions.
Critical Success The target is unaffected.
Success The target is slowed 1 for 1 round.
Failure The target is slowed 1 for 1 minute.
Critical Failure The target is slowed 2 for 1 minute.
Heightened (6th) You can target up to 10 creatures.
SOLID FOG
SPELL 4
CONJURATION
WATER
Traditions arcane, primal
Cast [three-actions] material, somatic, verbal
Range 120 feet; Area 20-foot burst
Duration 1 minute
You conjure a bank of fog so thick it impedes movement as
well as sight. This functions as obscuring mist (page 355),
except that the area is also difficult terrain. You can Dismiss
the spell.
SOOTHE
SPELL 1
EMOTION
ENCHANTMENT
HEALING
MENTAL
Traditions occult
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal
Range 30 feet; Targets 1 willing living creature
Duration 1 minute
You grace the target’s mind, boosting its mental defenses
and healing its wounds. The target regains 1d10+4 Hit Points
when you Cast the Spell and gains a +2 status bonus to saves
against mental effects for the duration.
Heightened (+1) The amount of healing increases by 1d10+4.
SOUND BURST
SPELL 2
EVOCATION
SONIC
Traditions divine, occult
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal
Range 30 feet; Area 10-foot burst
Saving Throw Fortitude
A cacophonous noise blasts out, dealing 2d10 sonic damage.
Each creature must attempt a Fortitude save.
Critical Success The creature is unaffected.
Success The creature takes half damage.
Failure The creature takes full damage and is deafened for 1 round.
Critical Failure The creature takes double damage and is
deafened and stunned 1 for 1 minute.
Heightened (+1) The damage increases by 1d10.
SPEAK WITH ANIMALS
SPELL 2
DIVINATION
Traditions primal
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal
Duration 10 minutes
You can ask questions of, receive answers from, and use the
Diplomacy skill with animals. The spell doesn’t make them more
friendly than normal. Cunning animals are likely to be terse and
evasive, while less intelligent ones often make inane comments.
SPEAK WITH PLANTS
SPELL 4
DIVINATION
PLANT
Traditions primal
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal
Duration 10 minutes
You can ask questions of and receive answers from plants, but
the spell doesn’t make them more friendly or intelligent than
normal. Most normal plants have a distinctive view of the world
around them, so they don’t recognize details about creatures or
know anything about the world beyond their immediate vicinity.
Cunning plant monsters are likely to be terse and evasive, while
less intelligent ones often make inane comments.
SPECTRAL HAND
SPELL 2
NECROMANCY
Traditions arcane, occult
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal
Range 120 feet
Duration 1 minute
Core Rulebook
370
