described below, add traits (listed in parentheses) and
requirements to the activation. If you can’t provide the
components, you fail to Activate the Item.
•	 Command (auditory, concentrate)
•	 Envision (concentrate)
•	 Interact (manipulate)
•	 Cast a Spell
Activation Components
An item’s activate entry lists the components required to
activate its abilities. Each component adds certain traits
to the Activate an Item activity, and some components
have special requirements. The components that appear
in this book are listed below.
Command
This component is a specific utterance you must make
in a loud and strong voice. Activate an Item gains the
auditory and concentrate traits. You must be able to speak
to provide this component.
Envision
This component is a specific image or phenomenon you
need to imagine. Activate an Item gains the concentrate trait.
Interact
This component works like the Interact basic action.
Activate an Item gains the manipulate trait and requires
you to use your hands, just like with any Interact action.
Cast a Spell
If an item lists “Cast a Spell” after “Activate,” the activation
requires you to use the Cast a Spell activity (described on
page 302) to Activate the Item. This happens when the
item replicates a spell. You must have a spellcasting class
feature to Activate an Item with this activation component.
If the item can be used for a specific spell, the action icon
for that spell is provided. If it’s an item like a staff, which
can be used for many spells, the icon is omitted, and you
must refer to each spell to determine which actions you
must spend to Activate the Item to cast it.
In this case, Activate an Item gains all the traits from
the relevant components of the Cast a Spell activity.
Limited Activations
Some items can be activated only a limited number of
times per day, as described in the items. This limit is
independent of any costs for activating the item. The
limit resets during your daily preparations. The limit is
inherent to the item, so if an ability that can be used only
once per day is used, it doesn’t refresh if another creature
later invests or tries to activate the item.
Sustaining Activations
Some items, once activated, have effects that can be
sustained if you concentrate on them. This works much
ITEM CATEGORIES
Items are grouped into the following categories, shown
here with the page number where those items appear
and a brief description of the category.
•	 Alchemical Items (page 543) are powered by the
reactions of alchemical reagents. Almost all alchemical
items are consumable items that are used up when you
activate them. This category includes bombs, elixirs
(including mutagens), poisons, and alchemical tools.
•	 Ammunition (page 559), in Consumables, includes
different types of magical arrows, crossbow bolts, and
other types of ammunition.
•	 Apex Items (page 603) are a subcategory of worn
items of a high level that increase an ability score.
•	 Armor (page 555) includes the rules for basic magical
armor as well as special suits of armor.
•	 Companion Items (page 604) are a category of worn
items meant for animal companions and mounts.
•	 Consumables (page 559) are used up when you
activate them, and include ammunition, oils, potions,
scrolls, and talismans, among others. Categories of
items that are consumables but have specific rules,
such as alchemical items, are presented separately.
•	 Held Items (page 572) include a wide variety of items
you use with your hands. This doesn’t include more
narrow categories of held items, such as weapons.
•	 Materials (page 577) can be used to make items with
unique properties and other advantages.
•	 Oils (page 561) are consumables applied to the surface
of an object or person.
•	 Potions (page 562) are consumable magical liquids
you drink to activate.
•	 Runes (page 580) modify armor and weapons when
etched onto them. This section includes fundamental
runes for weapons (weapon potency and striking) and
armor (armor potency and resilient).
•	 Scrolls (page 564) are consumables that allow
spellcasters to cast more spells.
•	 Shields (page 586) include more durable shields and
ones with special magical powers.
•	 Snares (page 589) are single-use traps typically made
by rangers.
•	 Staves (page 592) provide flexible spellcasting options.
•	 Structures (page 596) include buildings, tents, and
other larger items.
•	 Talismans (page 565) are consumables that are affixed
to items and then activated for a one-time combat or
physical benefit.
•	 Wands (page 597) hold a spell of the crafter’s choice,
and can be used to repeatedly cast that spell.
•	 Weapons (page 599) include the rules for basic magical
weapons, weapons made from precious materials, and
specific magic weapons.
•	 Worn Items (page 603) consist of a vast collection of
clothing and other items you wear on your body.
533
11
Crafting & Treasure
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Skills
Feats
Equipment
Spells
The Age of
Lost OMENS
Playing the
Game
Game
mastering
Crafting
& Treasure
Appendix
