Additional Knowledge
Sometimes a character might want to follow up on a check
to Recall Knowledge, rolling another check to discover
more information. After a success, further uses of Recall
Knowledge can yield more information, but you should
adjust the difficulty to be higher for each attempt. Once a
character has attempted an incredibly hard check or failed
a check, further attempts are fruitless—the character has
recalled everything they know about the subject.
Creature Identification
A character who successfully identifies a creature learns
one of its best-known attributes—such as a troll’s
regeneration (and the fact that it can be stopped by acid
or fire) or a manticore’s tail spikes. On a critical success,
the character also learns something subtler, like a demon’s
weakness or the trigger for one of the creature’s reactions.
The skill used to identify a creature usually depends
on that creature’s trait, as shown on Table 10–7, but you
have leeway on which skills apply. For instance, hags are
humanoids but have a strong connection to occult spells
and live outside society, so you might allow a character to
use Occultism to identify them without any DC adjustment,
while Society is harder. Lore skills can also be used to identify
their specific creature. Using the applicable Lore usually has
an easy or very easy DC (before adjusting for rarity).
SENSE DIRECTION
Pick the most appropriate simple DC when someone uses
Survival to Sense Direction. This is usually the trained DC
in normal wilderness, expert in deep forest or underground,
master in featureless or tricky locations, or legendary in
weird or surreal environments on other planes.
SOCIAL SKILLS
When
a
character
uses
Deception,
Diplomacy,
Intimidation, or Performance to influence or impress
someone whose level or Will DC you don’t know, estimate
the level of the creature and use that DC. A commoner is
usually level 0 or 1. Don’t worry about being exact. It
often makes sense to adjust the DC based on the target’s
attitude for Deception, Diplomacy, or Performance,
making the DC easy for a friendly creature, very easy for
a helpful one, hard for an unfriendly one, or very hard
for a hostile one. You might adjust the DC further or
differently based on the PC’s goal; for instance, the DC to
Request something an indifferent NPC is fundamentally
opposed to might be incredibly hard or impossible, and
it might be easy to convince an unfriendly creature to do
something it already wants to do.
SUBSIST
A simple DC is usually sufficient for the Subsist action, with
a trained DC for a typical situation. Use the disposition of
the environment or city as a guide; an environment with
scarce resources or a city with little tolerance for transience
might require an expert or higher DC.
TRACK
Often when a PC uses Survival to Track, you can pick a
simple DC and adjust it based on the circumstances. For
example, an army is usually easy to track, so you could use
the untrained DC of 10. If the army marched through mud,
you could even adjust this down to DC 5. On the other
hand, if the party pursues a cunning survivalist using Cover
Tracks, you might use their Survival DC as the DC to Track.
TRAIN AN ANIMAL
Train Animal (page 268) allows PCs to teach animals
tricks. Use the level of the animal as the baseline; you can
adjust the DC up if the trick is especially difficult, or down
if the animal is especially domesticated, like a dog.
DETERMINING THE SCOPE OF LORE
Lore skills are one of the most specialized aspects of
Pathfinder, but they require GM oversight, particularly
in determining which Lore subcategories are acceptable
for characters to select. A Lore subcategory represents
a narrow focus, and thus it shouldn’t replace all or even
most of an entire skill, nor should it convey vast swaths
of information. For example, a single Lore subcategory
doesn’t cover all religions—that’s covered by the Religion
skill—but a character could have a Lore subcategory that
covers a single deity. One Lore subcategory won’t cover an
entire country or all of history, but it could cover a city, an
ancient civilization, or one aspect of a modern country, like
Taldan History Lore. A single Lore subcategory couldn’t
cover the entire multiverse, but it could cover a whole
plane other than the Material Plane.
TABLE 10–7: CREATURE IDENTIFICATION SKILLS

Creature Trait
Skills

Aberration
Occultism

Animal

Nature

Astral

Occultism

Beast

Arcana, Nature

Celestial

Religion

Construct

Arcana, Crafting

Dragon

Arcana

Elemental

Arcana, Nature

Ethereal

Occultism

Fey

Nature

Fiend

Religion

Fungus

Nature

Humanoid

Society

Monitor

Religion

Ooze

Occultism

Plant

Nature

Spirit

Occultism

Undead

Religion
Core Rulebook
506
