Treat a Poison for a creature, you can’t try again until after the
next time that creature attempts a save against the poison.
Critical Success You grant the creature a +4 circumstance
bonus to its next saving throw against the poison.
Success You grant the creature a +2 circumstance bonus to its
next saving throw against the poison.
Critical Failure Your efforts cause the creature to take a –2
circumstance penalty to its next save against the poison.
TREAT WOUNDS
EXPLORATION
HEALING
MANIPULATE
Requirements You have healer’s tools (page 290).
You spend 10 minutes treating one injured living creature
(targeting yourself, if you so choose). The target is then
temporarily immune to Treat Wounds actions for 1 hour, but
this interval overlaps with the time you spent treating (so a
patient can be treated once per hour, not once per 70 minutes).
The Medicine check DC is usually 15, though the GM might
adjust it based on the circumstances, such as treating a patient
outside in a storm, or treating magically cursed wounds. If you’re
an expert in Medicine, you can instead attempt a DC 20 check
to increase the Hit Points regained by 10; if you’re a master of
Medicine, you can instead attempt a DC 30 check to increase
the Hit Points regained by 30; and if you’re legendary, you can
instead attempt a DC 40 check to increase the Hit Points regained
by 50. The damage dealt on a critical failure remains the same.
If you succeed at your check, you can continue treating the
target to grant additional healing. If you treat them for a total
of 1 hour, double the Hit Points they regain from Treat Wounds.
The result of your Medicine check determines how many
Hit Points the target regains.
Critical Success The target regains 4d8 Hit Points, and its
wounded condition is removed.
Success The target regains 2d8 Hit Points, and its wounded
condition is removed.
Critical Failure The target takes 1d8 damage.
Nature (Wis)
You know a great deal about the natural world, and you
command and train animals and magical beasts. Even
if you’re untrained in Nature, you can use it to Recall
Knowledge (page 238).
•	 Recall Knowledge about fauna, flora, geography,
weather, the environment, creatures of natural origin
(like animals, beasts, fey, and plants), the First World,
the Material Plane, and the Elemental Planes.
COMMAND AN ANIMAL [one-action]
AUDITORY
CONCENTRATE
You issue an order to an animal. Attempt a Nature check
against the animal’s Will DC. The GM might adjust the DC if the
animal has a good attitude toward you, you suggest a course of
action it was predisposed toward, or you offer it a treat.
You automatically fail if the animal is hostile or unfriendly
to you. If the animal is helpful to you, increase your degree of
COMMANDED ANIMALS
Issuing commands to an animal doesn’t always go
smoothly. An animal is an independent creature with
limited intelligence. Most animals understand only the
simplest instructions, so you might be able to instruct
your animal to move to a certain square but not dictate
a specific path to get there, or command it to attack a
certain creature but not to make its attack nonlethal. The
GM decides the specifics of the action your animal uses.
The animal does what you commanded as soon as
it can, usually as its first action on its next turn. If you
successfully commanded it multiple times, it does what
you said in order. It forgets all commands beyond what it
can accomplish on its turn. If multiple people command
the same animal, the GM determines how the animal
reacts. The GM might also make the DC higher if someone
has already tried to Command the Animal that round.
success by one step. You might be able to Command an Animal
more easily with a feat like Ride (page 266).
Most animals know the Leap, Seek, Stand, Stride, and
Strike basic actions. If an animal knows an activity, such as a
horse’s Gallop, you can Command the Animal to perform the
activity, but you must spend as many actions on Command
an Animal as the activity’s number of actions. You can also
spend multiple actions to Command the Animal to perform
that number of basic actions on its next turn; for instance, you
could spend 3 actions to Command an Animal to Stride three
times or to Stride twice and then Strike.
Success The animal does as you command on its next turn.
Failure The animal is hesitant or resistant, and it does nothing.
Critical Failure The animal misbehaves or misunderstands,
and it takes some other action determined by the GM.
Nature Trained Actions
You must be trained in Nature to use it for the following
general skill actions (page 234).
•	 Identify Magic, particularly primal magic.
•	 Learn a Spell from the primal tradition.
Occultism (Int)
You know a great deal about ancient philosophies, esoteric
lore, obscure mysticism, and supernatural creatures. Even
if you’re untrained in Occultism, you can use it to Recall
Knowledge (page 238).
•	 Recall Knowledge about ancient mysteries; obscure
philosophies; creatures of occult significance (like
aberrations, spirits, and oozes); and the Positive
Energy, Negative Energy, Shadow, Astral, and
Ethereal Planes.
Occultism Trained Actions
You must be trained in Occultism to use it for the
following general skill actions (page 234).
4
Skills
249
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Skills
Feats
Equipment
Spells
The Age of
Lost OMENS
Playing the
Game
Game
mastering
Crafting
& Treasure
Appendix
