IMMOVABLE ROD
ITEM 9
MAGICAL
 TRANSMUTATION
Price 600 gp
Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk 1
This flat iron bar is almost completely nondescript, except for
one small button appearing on its surface.
Activate [one-action] Interact; You push the button to anchor the rod
in place. It doesn’t move, defying gravity if need be. If the
button is pushed again, the rod deactivates, ending
the anchoring magic. While anchored, the
rod can be moved only if 8,000 pounds of
pressure are applied to it or if a creature uses
Athletics to Force Open the rod with a DC of
40 (though most intelligent creatures can just
push the button to release the rod).
MAESTRO’S INSTRUMENT
ITEM 3+
ENCHANTMENT
 MAGICAL
Usage held in 2 hands; Bulk 1
A maestro’s instrument can be crafted in the form of
any variety of handheld musical instrument. A maestro’s
instrument grants you a +1 item bonus to Performance
checks while playing music with the instrument.
Activate [two-actions] Interact; Frequency once per day; Effect
You can play the instrument to produce the effects of a
charm spell.
Type lesser; Level 3; Price 60 gp
Type moderate; Level 10; Price 900 gp
The item bonus is +2, and the charm spell is 4th level.
Type greater; Level 18; Price 19,000 gp
The item bonus is +3, and the charm spell is 8th level.
Craft Requirements You must supply a casting of
charm of the appropriate level.
MARVELOUS MEDICINES
ITEM 12+
MAGICAL
 NECROMANCY
Usage held in 2 hands; Bulk 1
This set of healer’s tools contains a seemingly endless
supply of bandages, herbs, and healing items of impeccable
quality, granting you a +2 item bonus to Medicine checks.
Activate [one-action] Treat Poison or 8 hours (Treat Disease);
Effect You can activate the tools when you use them to
Treat Poison in order to produce the effects of neutralize
poison, or when you Treat Disease in order to produce the
effects of remove disease. Once these medicines have been
used to treat a patient’s poison or disease, they can’t be used
again to treat the same affliction for that patient.
Type standard; Level 12; Price 1,800 gp
Type greater; Level 18; Price 19,000 gp
The tools grant a +3 item bonus, and the spells are heightened
to 6th level.
POSSIBILITY TOME
ITEM 18
MAGICAL
 DIVINATION
Price 22,000 gp
Usage held in 2 hands; Bulk 2
An array of semiprecious stones is set into the ornate silver
and beaten copper cover of this thick and weighty tome. If
you open the book before it’s been activated, its vellum pages
are blank and pristine, but once activated, words dance and
swim onto the pages before your eyes.
Activate 10 minutes (envision, Interact); Effect As you flip
through the book, you think about a broad topic you want
to know more about. Choose one skill: Arcana, Crafting,
Medicine, Nature, Occultism, Religion, Society, or a single
subcategory of Lore. The book’s pages fill with
information about that skill, though only you can
see the information. While the pages are full,
you can spend an Interact action perusing the
book just before attempting a check to Recall
Knowledge with the chosen skill. This grants
you a +3 item bonus to the check, and if you
roll a critical failure, you get a failure instead.
The information within the book disappears after
24 hours or when the tome is activated again.
PRIMEVAL MISTLETOE
ITEM 6+
 PRIMAL
 TRANSMUTATION
Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk —
This sprig of berry-festooned holly and mistletoe doesn’t wilt
or rot. It can be used as a primal focus, and it also grants the
creature holding it a +1 item bonus to Nature checks.
Activate [two-actions] Interact; Frequency once per 10 minutes;
Effect You squeeze juice from one of the berries and smear
it onto a non-magical club or staff to cast shillelagh upon it.
Activate [two-actions] Interact; Frequency once per day; Effect You
can twine the sprig around the wrist of one hand and touch
a tree to cast tree shape upon yourself, except instead of a
becoming a tree, you become a vine on the touched tree.
Type standard; Level 6; Price 230 gp
Type greater; Level 14; Price 3,900 gp
The sprig grants a +2 bonus and can be activated in one
additional way:
Activate [two-actions] Interact; Frequency once per day; Effect You
plant the primeval mistletoe into an area of natural
earth or stone. Once planted, the plant immediately
sprouts into an area of holly bushes that don’t impede
movement and that pulse with positive energy, replicating
the effects of a field of life spell. This lasts for up to 1 minute,
as long as you continue to Sustain the Activation. When this
magic ends, the holly bushes revert back into the original
primeval mistletoe.
ROD OF NEGATION
ITEM 14
 ABJURATION
 MAGICAL
Price 4,300 gp
Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk 1
This long, plain, leaden rod can disrupt magic.
Activate [two-actions] Interact; Effect This rod emits a thin, gray
beam that negates a spell or magic item, casting a 6th-level
dispel magic spell with a counteract modifier of +23. Once
activated, the rod can’t be activated again for 2d6 hours.
Core Rulebook
574
