•	 AC = 15 + your level. Ignore your armor’s check penalty
and Speed reduction.
•	 Speed 10 feet.
•	 Weakness 5 to physical damage. (If you take physical
damage in this form, you take 5 additional damage.)
•	 Low-light vision and imprecise scent 30 feet.
•	 Acrobatics and Stealth modifiers of +10, unless your
own modifier is higher; Athletics modifier –4.
Heightened (4th) You can turn into a flying creature, such as a
bird, which grants you a fly Speed of 20 feet.
PHANTASMAL CALAMITY
SPELL 6
ILLUSION
MENTAL
Traditions arcane, occult
Cast [two‑actions] somatic, verbal
Saving Throw Will; Range 500 feet; Area 30-foot burst
A vision of apocalyptic destruction fills the mind of each
creature in the area. The vision deals 11d6 mental damage (basic
Will save). On a critical failure, the creature must also succeed
at a Reflex save or believe it’s trapped (stuck in a fissure, adrift
at sea, or some other fate in keeping with its vision). If it fails
the second save, it’s also stunned for 1 minute. It can attempt a
new Will save at the end of each of its turns, and on a success, it
disbelieves the illusion and recovers from the stunned condition.
Heightened (+1) The damage increases by 2d6.
PHANTASMAL KILLER
SPELL 4
DEATH
EMOTION
FEAR
ILLUSION
MENTAL
Traditions arcane, occult
Cast [two‑actions] somatic, verbal
Range 120 feet; Targets 1 living creature
Saving Throw Will
You create a phantasmal image of the most fearsome creature
imaginable to the target. Only the spell’s target can see the
killer, though you can see the vague shape of the illusion as
it races forth to attack. The effect of the killer is based on the
outcome of the target’s Will save.
Critical Success The target is unaffected.
Success The target takes 4d6 mental damage and is
frightened 1.
Failure The target takes 8d6 mental damage and is
frightened 2.
Critical Failure The target is so afraid it might die. It must
attempt a Fortitude save; if the target fails, it dies. On a
successful Fortitude save, the target takes 12d6 mental
damage, is fleeing until the end of its next turn, and is
frightened 4. This effect has the incapacitation trait.
Heightened (+1) The damage increases by 2d6 on a failure and
by 3d6 on a critical failure.
PHANTOM PAIN
SPELL 1
ILLUSION
MENTAL
NONLETHAL
Traditions occult
Cast [two‑actions] somatic, verbal
Range 30 feet; Targets 1 creature
Saving Throw Will; Duration 1 minute
Illusory pain wracks the target, dealing 2d4 mental damage
and 1d4 persistent mental damage. The target must attempt
a Will save.
Critical Success The target is unaffected.
Success The target takes full initial damage but no persistent
damage, and the spell ends immediately.
Failure The target takes full initial and persistent damage, and
the target is sickened 1. If the target recovers from being
sickened, the persistent damage ends and the spell ends.
Critical Failure As failure, but the target is sickened 2.
Heightened (+1) The damage increases by 2d4 and the
persistent damage by 1d4.
PHANTOM STEED
SPELL 2
CONJURATION
Traditions arcane, occult, primal
Cast 10 minutes (somatic, verbal)
Range 30 feet
Duration 8 hours
You conjure a Large, magical, equine creature that only you
(or another Medium or Small creature you choose) can ride.
The horse is clearly phantasmal in nature, has 20 AC and 10
Hit Points, and automatically fails all saves. If it’s reduced to
0 Hit Points, it disappears and the spell ends. The steed has
a Speed of 40 feet and can hold its rider’s body weight, plus
20 Bulk.
Heightened (4th) The steed has a Speed of 60 feet, can walk
on water, and ignores areas of natural difficult terrain.
Heightened (5th) The steed has a Speed of 60 feet, can walk
on water, and ignores areas of natural difficult terrain. It can
also air walk but must end its turn on solid ground or fall.
Heightened (6th) The steed can walk or fly at a Speed of 80
feet, can walk on water, and ignores natural difficult terrain.
PLANE SHIFT
SPELL 7
UNCOMMON
CONJURATION
TELEPORTATION
Traditions arcane, divine, occult, primal
Cast 10 minutes (focus, material, somatic, verbal)
Range touch; Targets 1 willing creature, or up to 8 willing
creatures joining hands
You and your allies traverse the barriers between planes of
existence. The targets move to another plane, such as the
Plane of Fire, the Shadow Plane, or the Abyss. You must have
specific knowledge of the destination plane and use a magic
tuning fork created from material from that plane as a focus
for the spell. While the tuning forks for most prominent planes
are uncommon, just like the spell plane shift, more obscure
planes and demiplanes often have rare tuning forks.
The spell is highly imprecise, and you appear 1d20×25 miles
from the last place one of the targets (of your choice) was
located the last time that target traveled to the plane. If it’s
the first time traveling to a particular plane for all targets, you
appear at a random location on the plane. Plane shift doesn’t
provide a means of return travel, though casting plane shift
again allows you to return to your previous plane unless there
are extenuating circumstances.
357
7
SPELLS
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Skills
Feats
Equipment
Spells
The Age of
Lost OMENS
Playing the
Game
Game
mastering
Crafting
& Treasure
Appendix
