surroundings and can move within the container and
speak, but it can’t use any other  actions. Destroying
the container kills the target rather than freeing it. This
form of imprisonment is also transmutation magic.
•	 Oubliette (10th level only) You entomb the target
in a state of suspended animation deep beneath the
surface of the ground and out of tune with reality so
that it can’t be reached by any means. You also prevent
divinations from revealing the location where the
imprisonment occurred. Powerful magic such as wish
can reveal the location of the imprisonment, but even
such magic can’t free the target from the oubliette;
only a 10th-level freedom ritual can do so.
Critical Success You imprison the target. You can either use a
form of imprisonment that usually requires 1 additional spell
level, or give any creatures trying to use a freedom ritual
to rescue the target a –2 circumstance penalty to checks
associated with that ritual.
Success You imprison the target.
Failure You fail to imprison the target.
Critical Failure You imprison yourself and the secondary casters
in the same way you intended to imprison the target.
Heightened (9th) You can use the object form of imprisonment
in addition to the other options, and you can target a creature
of up to 18th level. The base cost increases to 2,000 gp.
Heightened (10th) You can use the object and oubliette forms
of imprisonment in addition to the other options, and you can
target a creature of up to 20th level. The base cost increases
to 6,000 gp.
INVEIGLE
RITUAL 2
UNCOMMON
ENCHANTMENT
MENTAL
Cast 1 day; Cost rare oils worth a total value of 10 gp × the
target’s level
Primary Check Arcana (expert), Occultism (expert), or
Religion (expert)
Range 10 feet; Target 1 creature of a level no greater than
double the inveigle ritual’s level
Duration 1 year or until dismissed
You win over the target’s mind, causing it to see you as a close
and trusted friend and look upon your every suggestion as
reasonable. The target is helpful toward you, so it will go out
of its way to help you. As with any other helpful creature,
there are limits to what you can ask of it. If you ever ask
the target to do something completely against its nature or
needlessly harmful to the target or its interests, not only does
it refuse, but it also can attempt a Will save to end the effect
early. Because of the casting time and range, it’s generally
difficult to cast this ritual unless the target is willing (perhaps
convinced the ritual will have some other effect) or restrained.
If the creature is unwilling to accept the ritual, it can attempt
a Will save to negate the effect.
Critical Success The ritual succeeds and the target takes a –4
status penalty to Will saves to end the effect.
Success The ritual succeeds.
Failure The ritual fails.
Critical Failure The ritual fails and the target instead hates
you, becoming hostile to you for the duration.
Heightened (6th) You can use inveigle on a creature up to 1
mile away throughout the casting, as long as you have a lock
of hair, a drop of blood, or some other piece of the creature’s
body, which you mix into the oils used in the cost. The base cost
increases to 100 gp. The duration is shorter than normal, based
on how large a piece of the creature’s body you use. Blood, hair,
scales, and the like cause the ritual to last 1 week, while a hand
or other substantial body part causes the ritual to last 1 month.
LEGEND LORE
RITUAL 7
UNCOMMON
DIVINATION
Cast 1 day; Cost rare incense worth a total value of 300 gp;
Secondary Casters 2
Primary Check Occultism (master); Secondary Checks
Performance, Society
You attempt to learn useful legends about a particular
subject, which must be an important person, place, or thing.
If the subject is present, increase the degree of success of
your primary skill check by one step. If you have only vague
information about the subject before attempting the ritual,
decrease the degree of success of your primary skill check by
one step. These modifiers cancel each other out if you have a
subject present with little to no baseline information.
Critical Success You recite legends, tales, and lore about the
subject over the course of an hour after the ritual ends. The
information is mostly coherent, emphasizing more accurate
or useful legends over those exaggerated over time.
Success You recite mysterious legends, tales, and lore about
the subject over the course of an hour after the ritual ends.
These provide useful information for further inquiry but are
generally incomplete or enigmatic. As is the nature of legends,
you are likely to learn multiple contradictory versions.
Failure You fail to learn any useful legends.
Critical Failure Your mind becomes lost in the past. You can’t
sense or respond to anything in the present for 1 week except
to perform necessities like breathing and sleeping. When you
return, however, you can retrain one of your skills into a Lore
based on the knowledge of the past you were uncontrollably
viewing, as if you had spent 1 week retraining.
PLANAR ALLY
RITUAL 5
UNCOMMON
CONJURATION
Cast 1 day; Cost rare incense and offerings worth a total value
of 2 gp × the spell level × the target’s level; Secondary
Casters 2, must share your religion
Primary Check Religion (expert); Secondary Checks Diplomacy
Duration see text
You call upon your deity to grant you aid in the form of a
divine servitor of your deity’s choice of a level no greater than
double planar ally’s spell level. While performing this ritual,
the secondary casters entreat your deity, explaining what
sort of assistance you need and why you need it; if the task is
incredibly fitting to your deity, the GM can grant a circumstance
bonus to the secondary Diplomacy check or rule that the check
413
7
SPELLS
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Skills
Feats
Equipment
Spells
The Age of
Lost OMENS
Playing the
Game
Game
mastering
Crafting
& Treasure
Appendix
