Disabling a Hazard
The most versatile method for deactivating traps is the
Disable a Device action of the Thievery skill, though
most mechanical traps can also simply be smashed, and
magical traps can usually be counteracted. Environmental
hazards often can be overcome with Nature or Survival,
and haunts can often be overcome with Occultism or
Religion. The specific skill and DC required to disable
a hazard are listed in the hazard’s stat block. As with
detecting a hazard, disabling a hazard might require
a character to have a certain proficiency rank in the
listed skill.
A character must first detect a hazard (or have it pointed
out to them) to try to deactivate it. They can attempt to
deactivate a hazard whether or not it has already been
triggered, though some hazards no longer pose a danger
once their reactions have occurred, especially if there is
no way for them to be reset.
For most hazards, a successful check for the listed
skill against the DC in the stat block disables the hazard
without triggering it. Any other means of deactivating
the hazard are included in the hazard’s stat block, as are
any additional steps required to properly deactivate it.
A critical failure on any roll to disable a hazard triggers
it, including a critical failure on a roll to counteract a
magic hazard.
Some hazards require multiple successful checks to
deactivate, typically because they have a particularly
complicated component or have several discrete portions.
For hazards with a complex component, a critical success
on a check to disable the hazard counts as two successes
on a single component.
Damaging a Hazard
Rather than trying to carefully disable a hazard, a
character might just smash it. Damaging a mechanical
trap or another physical hazard works like damaging
objects: the hazard reduces the damage it takes by its
Hardness. In most cases, hitting the hazard also triggers
it, as explained in Attacking a Hazard below. If a
hazard’s Hit Points are reduced to its Broken Threshold
(BT) or lower, the hazard becomes broken and can’t
be activated, though it can still be repaired. If it’s
reduced to 0 HP, it’s destroyed and can’t be repaired.
(See page 272 in Chapter 6 for more information on
damaging objects.)
Hazards’ AC, applicable saving throw modifiers,
Hardness, HP, and BT are listed in their stat blocks. A
hazard that doesn’t list one of these statistics can’t be
affected by anything targeting that statistic. For example,
a hazard that has HP but no BT can’t be broken, but can
still be destroyed. Hazards are immune to anything an
object is immune to unless specifically noted otherwise,
and they can’t be targeted by anything that can’t target
objects. Some hazards may have additional immunities,
as well as resistances or weaknesses.
Attacking a Hazard
If someone hits a hazard—especially if it’s a mechanical
trap—they usually trigger it, though you might
determine otherwise in some cases. An attack that breaks
the hazard might prevent it from triggering, depending
on the circumstances. If the hazard has multiple parts,
breaking one part might still trigger the trap. For
example, if a trap has a trip wire in one location and
launches an attack from another location, severing the
trip wire could still trigger the attack. Destroying a
trap in one blow almost never triggers it. These rules
also apply to most damaging spells or other effects in
addition to attacks.
Repairing a Hazard
You might allow a character to repair a damaged hazard
to restore its functionality. You determine the specifics of
this, since it can vary by trap. The Repair action might be
insufficient if fixing the trap requires gathering scattered
components or the like. If the item has a Reset entry, the
character needs to do whatever is listed there, in addition
to repairing the damage.
Counteracting a Magical Hazard
Some magical hazards can be counteracted using dispel
magic and the counteracting rules found on page 458.
These hazards’ spell levels and counteract DCs are listed
in their stat block. Counteracting a hazard otherwise
works like using a skill check to disable the hazard.
Hazard Experience
Characters gain Experience Points for overcoming a
hazard, whether they disable it, avoid it, or simply endure
its attacks. If they trigger the same hazard later on, they
don’t gain XP for the hazard again. The XP values for
hazards of different levels also appear on page 508, but
are repeated here for convenience. The XP for a complex
hazard is equal to the XP for a monster of the same level,
and the XP for a simple hazard is one-fifth of that. Hazards
of a lower level than the party’s level – 4 are trivial and
award no XP.
TABLE 10–14: HAZARD XP


XP Award

Level
Simple Hazard	 Complex Hazard
	 Party level – 4
2 XP
10 XP
	 Party level – 3
3 XP
15 XP
	 Party level – 2
4 XP
20 XP
	 Party level – 1
6 XP
30 XP
	 Party level
8 XP
40 XP
	 Party level + 1
12 XP
60 XP
	 Party level + 2
16 XP
80 XP
	 Party level + 3
24 XP
120 XP
	 Party level + 4
30 XP
150 XP
GAME MASTERING
521
10
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Skills
Feats
Equipment
Spells
The Age of
Lost OMENS
Playing the
Game
Game
mastering
Crafting
& Treasure
Appendix
