armaments, and you’ve developed unparalleled skill with
your favorite weapons. Your proficiency ranks for simple
and martial weapons increase to master. Your proficiency
rank for advanced weapons increases to expert.
You can select one weapon group and increase your
proficiency ranks to legendary for all simple and martial
weapons in that weapon group, and to master for all
advanced weapons in that weapon group.
Evasion
15th
You’ve learned to move quickly to avoid explosions, a
dragon’s breath, and worse. Your proficiency rank for
Reflex saves increases to master. When you roll a success
on a Reflex save, you get a critical success instead.
Greater Weapon Specialization
15th
Your damage from weapon specialization increases to 4
with weapons and unarmed attacks in which you’re an
expert, 6 if you’re a master, and 8 if you’re legendary.
Improved Flexibility
15th
Your extensive experience gives you even greater ability
to adapt to each day’s challenges. When you use combat
The list of ancestry feats available to you can be found in
your ancestry’s entry in Chapter 2.
Fighter Weapon Mastery
5th
Hours spent training with your preferred weapons,
learning and developing new combat techniques, have
made you particularly effective with your weapons of
choice. Choose one weapon group. Your proficiency rank
increases to master with the simple and martial weapons
in that group, and to expert with the advanced weapons
in that group. You gain access to the critical specialization
effects (page 283) of all weapons for which you have
master proficiency.
Battlefield Surveyor
7th
Whether taking stock of an enemy army or simply standing
guard, you excel at observing your foes. Your proficiency
rank for Perception increases to master. In addition, you
gain a +2 circumstance bonus to Perception checks for
initiative, making you faster to react during combat.
Weapon Specialization
7th
You’ve learned how to inflict greater injuries with the
weapons you know best. You deal 2 additional damage
with weapons and unarmed attacks in which you are an
expert. This damage increases to 3 if you’re a master, and to
4 if you’re legendary.
Combat Flexibility
9th
Through your experience in battle, you can prepare your
tactics to suit different situations. When you make your
daily preparations, you gain one fighter feat of 8th level
or lower that you don’t already have. You can use that
feat until your next daily preparations. You must meet all
of the feat’s other prerequisites.
Juggernaut
9th
Your body is accustomed to physical hardship and
resistant to ailments. Your proficiency rank for Fortitude
saves increases to master. When you roll a success on a
Fortitude save, you get a critical success instead.
Armor Expertise
11th
You have spent so much time wearing armor that you know
how to make the most of its protection. Your proficiency
rank for light, medium, and heavy armor, as well as for
unarmored defense, increase to expert. You gain the armor
specialization effects of medium and heavy armor.
Fighter Expertise
11th
You’ve practiced your techniques to make them harder
to resist. Your proficiency rank for your fighter class DC
increases to expert.
Weapon Legend
13th
You’ve learned fighting techniques that apply to all
KEY TERMS
You’ll see the following key terms in many fighter
class features.
Flourish: Actions with this trait are special techniques
that require too much exertion for you to perform
frequently. You can use only 1 action with the flourish
trait per turn.
Open: These maneuvers work only as the first salvo in
the attacks you make on your turn. You can use an action
with the open trait only if you haven’t used an action with
the attack or open trait yet this turn.
Press: Actions with this trait allow you to follow up
earlier attacks. An action with the press trait can be
used only if you are currently affected by a multiple
attack penalty.
Some actions with the press trait also grant an effect
on a failure. The effects that are added on a failure don’t
apply on a critical failure. If your press action succeeds,
you can choose to apply the failure effect instead. (For
example, you may wish to do this when an attack deals
no damage due to resistance.) Because a press action
requires a multiple attack penalty, you can’t use one when
it’s not your turn, even if you use the Ready activity.
Stance: A stance is a general combat strategy that
you enter by using an action with the stance trait, and
you remain in for some time. A stance lasts until you get
knocked out, until its requirements (if any) are violated,
until the encounter ends, or until you enter a new stance,
whichever comes first. After you take an action with the
stance trait, you can’t take another one for 1 round. You
can enter or be in a stance only in encounter mode.
143
3
CLASSES
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Skills
Feats
Equipment
Spells
The Age of
Lost OMENS
Playing the
Game
Game
mastering
Crafting
& Treasure
Appendix
