Class Features
You gain these abilities as a bard. Abilities gained at higher
levels list the requisite levels next to the features’ names.
Ancestry and Background
In addition to the abilities provided by your class at 1st
level, you have the benefits of your selected ancestry and
background, as described in Chapter 2.
Initial Proficiencies
At 1st level you gain a number of proficiencies, representing
your basic training. These are noted at the start of this class.
Occult Spellcasting
You draw upon magic from esoteric knowledge. You can
cast occult spells using the Cast a Spell activity, and you
can supply material, somatic, and verbal components when
casting spells (see Casting Spells on page 302). Because
you’re a bard, you can usually play an instrument for
spells requiring somatic or material components, as long
as it takes at least one of your hands to do so. If you use
an instrument, you don’t need a spell component pouch or
another hand free. You can usually also play an instrument
for spells requiring verbal components, instead of speaking.
Each day, you can cast up to two 1st-level spells. You
must know spells to cast them, and you learn them via the
spell repertoire class feature. The number of spells you can
cast each day is called your spell slots.
As you increase in level as a bard, your number of spells
per day increases, as does the highest level of spells you can
cast, as shown on Table 3–6: Bard Spells per Day on page 98.
Some of your spells require you to attempt a spell attack
roll to see how effective they are, or have your enemies
roll against your spell DC (typically by attempting a saving
throw). Since your key ability is Charisma, your spell
attack rolls and spell DCs use your Charisma modifier.
Details on calculating these statistics appear on page 447.
Heightening Spells
When you get spell slots of 2nd level and higher, you can fill
those slots with stronger versions of lower-level spells. This
increases the spell’s level to match the spell slot. You must
have a spell in your spell repertoire at the level you want to
cast in order to heighten it to that level. Many spells have
specific improvements when they are heightened to certain
levels (page 299). The signature spells class feature lets you
heighten certain spells freely.
Cantrips
Some of your spells are cantrips. A cantrip is a special type
of spell that doesn’t use spell slots. You can cast a cantrip at
will, any number of times per day. A cantrip is automatically
heightened to half your level rounded up, which equals the
highest level of spell you can cast as a bard. For example, as
a 1st-level bard, your cantrips are 1st-level spells, and as a
5th-level bard, your cantrips are 3rd-level spells.
Spell Repertoire
The collection of spells you can cast is called your spell
repertoire. At 1st level, you learn two 1st-level occult spells
of your choice and five occult cantrips of your choice. You
choose these from the common spells from the occult list
(page 311) or from other occult spells to which you have
access. You can cast any spell in your spell repertoire by
using a spell slot of an appropriate spell level.
You add to this spell repertoire as you increase in level.
Each time you get a spell slot (see Table 3–6), you add a
spell to your spell repertoire of the same level. At 2nd level,
you select another 1st-level spell; at 3rd level, you select
two 2nd-level spells, and so on. When you add spells, you
might add a higher-level version of a spell you already
have, so you can cast a heightened version of that spell.
Though you gain them at the same rate, your spell slots
and the spells in your spell repertoire are separate. If a
feat or other ability adds a spell to your spell repertoire,
it wouldn’t give you another spell slot, and vice versa.
TABLE 3–5: BARD ADVANCEMENT
Your
Level	 Class Features
1
Ancestry and background, initial proficiencies,

occult spellcasting, spell repertoire, composition

spells, muse
2
Bard feat, skill feat
3
2nd-level spells, general feat, lightning reflexes,

signature spells, skill increase
4
Bard feat, skill feat
5
3rd-level spells, ability boosts, ancestry feat,

skill increase
6
Bard feat, skill feat
7
4th-level spells, expert spellcaster, general feat,

skill increase
8
Bard feat, skill feat
9
5th-level spells, ancestry feat, great fortitude,

resolve, skill increase
10
Ability boots, bard feat, skill feat
11
6th-level spells, bard weapon expertise, general feat,

skill increase, vigilant senses
12
Bard feat, skill feat
13
7th-level spells, ancestry feat, light armor expertise,

skill increase, weapon specialization
14
Bard feat, skill feat
15
8th-level spells, ability boosts, general feat, master

spellcaster, skill increase
16
Bard feat, skill feat
17
9th-level spells, ancestry feat, greater resolve,

skill increase
18
Bard feat, skill feat
19
General feat, legendary spellcaster, magnum opus,

skill increase
20
Ability boosts, bard feat, skill feat
Core Rulebook
96
