•	 Snake Speed 20 feet, climb Speed 20 feet, swim
Speed 20 feet; Melee [one-action] fangs, Damage 2d4 piercing
plus 1d6 poison.
Heightened (3rd) You instead gain 10 temporary HP, AC =
17 + your level, attack modifier +14, damage bonus +5, and
Athletics +14.
Heightened (4th) Your battle form is Large and your attacks have
10-foot reach. You must have enough space to expand into or the
spell is lost. You instead gain 15 temporary HP, AC = 18 + your
level, attack modifier +16, damage bonus +9, and Athletics +16.
Heightened (5th) Your battle form is Huge and your attacks
have 15-foot reach. You must have enough space to expand
into or the spell is lost. You instead gain 20 temporary HP,
AC = 18 + your level, attack modifier +18, damage bonus +7
and double the number of damage dice, and Athletics +20.
ANIMAL MESSENGER
SPELL 2
ENCHANTMENT
MENTAL
Traditions primal
Cast 1 minute (material, somatic, verbal)
Range 120 feet
Duration until delivered
You offer a gift of food, and an ordinary Tiny wild animal
within range approaches to eat it. You imprint the image,
direction, and distance of an obvious place or landmark well
known to you within the animal. Optionally, you can attach
a small object or note up to light Bulk to it. The animal does
its best to reach the destination; if it makes it there, it waits
nearby until the duration expires, allowing other nonhostile
creatures to approach it and remove the attached object.
If there are no Tiny wild animals in range, the spell is lost.
ANIMAL VISION
SPELL 3
DIVINATION
MENTAL
Traditions primal
Cast 1 minute (material, somatic, verbal)
Range 120 feet; Targets 1 animal
Duration 1 hour
You tap into the target’s senses, allowing you to see, hear, and
otherwise sense whatever it senses for the spell’s duration. If
the target wishes to prevent you from doing so, it can attempt
a Will save, negating the spell on a success, but most animals
don’t bother to do so. While tapping into the target’s senses,
you can’t use your own body’s senses, but you can change
back and forth from your body’s senses to the target’s senses
using a single action, which has the concentrate trait.
ANT HAUL
SPELL 1
TRANSMUTATION
Traditions arcane, primal
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal
Range touch; Targets 1 creature
Duration 8 hours
You reinforce the target’s musculoskeletal system to bear more
weight. The target can carry 3 more Bulk than normal before
becoming encumbered and up to a maximum of 6 more Bulk.
ANTIMAGIC FIELD
SPELL 8
RARE
ABJURATION
Traditions arcane, divine, occult
Cast [three-actions] material, somatic, verbal
Area 10-foot emanation
Duration sustained up to 1 minute
You repel all magic from the target area, preventing spells
and other magic from functioning. Spells can’t penetrate the
area, magic items cease to function within it, and no one
inside can cast spells or use magic abilities. Likewise, spells—
such as dispel magic—can’t affect the field itself unless they
are of a higher level. Magic effects resume the moment they
pass outside the field. For example, a ray fired from one side
of the field could target a creature on the other side (as long
as caster and target are both outside the field). A summoned
creature winks out of existence but reappears if the field
moves or ends. Invested magic items cease to function, but
they remain invested and resume functioning when they exit
the field; the ability boost from an apex item isn’t suppressed
within the field. Spells of a higher level than the antimagic
field overcome its effects, and can even be cast by a creature
within the field.
The field disrupts only magic, so a +3 longsword still
functions as a longsword. Magically created creatures (such
as golems) function normally within an antimagic field.
AUGURY
SPELL 2
DIVINATION
PREDICTION
Traditions divine, occult
Cast 10 minutes (material, somatic, verbal)
You gain a vague glimpse of the future. During the casting of
this spell, ask about the results of a particular course of action.
The spell can predict results up to 30 minutes into the future
and reveals the GM’s best guess among the following outcomes:
•	 Weal The results will be good.
•	 Woe The results will be bad.
•	 Weal and Woe The results will be a mix of good and bad.
•	 Nothing There won’t be particularly good or bad results.
The GM rolls a secret DC 6 flat check. On a failure, the result
is always “nothing.” This makes it impossible to tell whether a
“nothing” result is accurate. If anyone asks about the same topic
as the first casting of augury during an additional casting, the GM
uses the secret roll result from the first casting. If circumstances
change, though, it’s possible to get a different result.
AVATAR
SPELL 10
POLYMORPH
TRANSMUTATION
Traditions divine
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal
Duration 1 minute
You transform into an avatar of your deity, assuming a Huge
battle form. You must have space to expand or the spell is lost.
You have hands in this battle form and can take manipulate
actions. You can Dismiss this spell.
You gain the following statistics and abilities regardless of
which deity’s battle form you assume:
Core Rulebook
318
