The Spotlight
As you run the game, keep track of who has the spotlight.
It can be easy to keep attention on the most outgoing
player or character, but you need to check in with all the
players. If a player hasn’t contributed in some time, stop
and ask, “What’s your character doing at this point?” If
the player’s not sure, add a detail or nonplayer character
to the scene that the player might find interesting.
Distractions and Interruptions
Maintaining the players’ attention keeps a game moving
and leads to memorable moments when everyone’s in the
same zone. Too many interruptions break the flow. This
is fine in moderation. Distractions become a problem if
they’re too frequent, as they cause people to miss things
and make misinformed decisions as the session becomes
disconnected. Yet every game includes breaks—sometimes
intentional, sometimes not—and digressions. Finding the
right balance of diversions for your group is essential.
A game is a social gathering, so there’s definitely a place
for conversation that’s not directly related to playing the
game. These interruptions become a problem if they’re too
frequent, or if people are talking over others. If a player
repeatedly interrupts you or other people or undercuts
every crucial moment of the game with a joke, talk to them
about limiting their comments to appropriate times. Often,
all you need to do is hold up your hand or otherwise
indicate that the player is talking out of turn to delay them
until after you or another speaker finishes talking.
Phones and other mobile devices are another major
source of distraction. Banning them entirely is often
impractical—many players use apps to roll dice or manage
their character sheets, or they need to answer texts from
their partner, check in on a work project, or otherwise
stay connected with people who rely on them. However,
you can set ground rules against using a device for
anything that’s not time-sensitive or game-related, such
as refreshing social media, checking the score of a hockey
game, playing a mobile game, or answering a non-urgent
text. You can relax these rules for players when their
characters are “offstage.” If a player’s character isn’t in a
scene, that might be a good time for the player to use a
mobile device.
ADJUDICATING THE RULES
As the GM, you are responsible for solving any rules
disputes. Remember that keeping your game moving is
more important than being 100% correct. Looking up
rules at the table can slow the game down, so in many
cases it’s better to make your best guess rather than scour
the book for the exact rule. (It can be instructive to look
those rules up during a break or after the session, though!)
To make calls on the fly, use the following guidelines,
which are the same principles the game rules are based on.
You might want to keep printouts of these guidelines and
the DC guidelines (page 503) for quick reference.
•	 If you don’t know how long a quick task takes, go
with 1 action, or 2 actions if a character shouldn’t be
able to perform it three times per round.
•	 If you’re not sure what action a task uses, look for
the most similar basic action. If you don’t find one,
make up an undefined action (page XXX) adding
any necessary traits (usually attack, concentrate,
manipulate, or move).
•	 When two sides are opposed, have one roll against
the other’s DC. Don’t have both sides roll (initiative
is the exception to this rule). The character who
rolls is usually the one acting (except in the case of
saving throws).
•	 If an effect raises or lowers chances of success, grant a
+1 circumstance bonus or a –1 circumstance penalty.
•	 If you’re not sure how difficult a significant
challenge should be, use the DC for the party’s level.
•	 If you’re making up an effect, creatures should be
incapacitated or killed on only a critical success
(or for a saving throw, on a critical failure).
•	 If you don’t know what check to use, pick the most
appropriate skill. If no other skill applies to a check
to Recall Knowledge, use an appropriate Lore skill
(usually at an untrained proficiency rank).
•	 Use the characters’ daily preparations as the time
to reset anything that lasts roughly a day.
•	 When
a
character
accomplishes
something
noteworthy that doesn’t have rules for XP, award
them XP for an accomplishment (10 to 30 XP, as
described on page 507).
•	 When the PCs fail at a task, look for a way they
might fail forward, meaning the story moves
OFF-SESSION GAMING
Session play with a full group isn’t the only way to play
Pathfinder. Finding opportunities to expand on the game
outside of its regular schedule can keep your group
engaged between sessions.
You can get together with a single player to run a
mini-session for their character, covering a mission that’s
important to their story but doesn’t concern the rest
of the group. You and the players can work out what
their characters do during solid stretches of downtime
via e-mail or chat messages. You can also give players
opportunities to collaborate on details of the story,
like having a player design a heraldic symbol for the
adventuring group or map out their home base. You might
even decide to award a Hero Point at the next session to
a player for events that happened outside a session.
Some events aren’t suitable for handling outside of
sessions. Any event that strongly affects a character
whose player isn’t present should be handled at the
table when everyone can attend. It’s also helpful to
recap events that took place outside of the session for all
characters so no one feels excluded or lost.
GAME MASTERING
491
10
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Skills
Feats
Equipment
Spells
The Age of
Lost OMENS
Playing the
Game
Game
mastering
Crafting
& Treasure
Appendix
