RUNNING A SESSION
During a session, you’re in charge of keeping the game’s
action moving, managing the different modes of play,
fielding questions, and making rules decisions. You’ll also
want to keep a rough eye on the time, so you can end
when most convenient for the group.
You’re the interface between the rules and the
imagined world you and the other players share. They
will ask you questions, and they’ll act based on their own
assumptions. It’s up to you to establish what’s true in the
world, but you don’t do this unilaterally. You’re informed
by the setting’s backstory, your preparations, and the
suggestions and assumptions the other players bring to the
table. Keep in mind that until you announce something,
your own plans are subject to change. For example, if you
originally intended the owner of a tavern to be kindly and
well-intentioned, but a player misreads her and invents
an interesting conspiracy theory regarding her intentions
that sounds fun, you might convert the tavern owner into
an agent of evil after all.
You’ll also determine when PCs and foes need to attempt
checks, as well as the consequences of those rolls. This
comes up most often outside of encounters, as encounters
are more regimented about when checks happen and how
they are resolved. In an encounter, a player can usually
determine their own character’s turn, with you chiming in
only to say whether an attack hits or if something in the
environment requires a character to attempt a check.
STARTING A SESSION
Once everyone is ready, get everyone’s attention and
cover the following topics. These are in a rough order
that you can change based on your group’s style or a
session’s needs.
•	 Recap what happened during the previous sessions.
•	 Establish where the characters are at the beginning
of this session. Have they been resting since their
last challenge? Are they in a hallway, preparing
to raid the next room of a dungeon? Tell players
whether their characters had time to rest or
recover since the last session.
•	 Remind players that they each have 1 Hero Point
at the start of the session (page 507).
•	 Establish goals. The players should have an idea
of what they want to do next. Reestablish any
goals the group already had, then let the players
weigh in on whether these goals still apply, and
on whether there’s anything else they hope
to accomplish in this session.
•	 Commence adventuring! Decide which mode of
play you’re going to start in, then lead off with a
verbal prompt to get the action started. You might
ask a question related to a particular character, have
everyone immediately roll initiative as a monster
attacks, or briefly describe the environment and
sensations that surround the player characters,
allowing them to react.
Core Rulebook
490
