TABLE 10–8: XP AWARDS

Accomplishment
XP Award

Minor
10 XP

Moderate*
30 XP

Major*
80 XP
* Typically earns a Hero Point as well.

Adversary Level
XP Award

Party level – 4
10 XP

Party level – 3
15 XP

Party level – 2
20 XP

Party level – 1
30 XP

Party level
40 XP

Party level + 1
60 XP

Party level + 2
80 XP

Party level + 3
120 XP

Party level + 4
160 XP






XP Award

Hazard Level
Simple Hazard
Complex Hazard

Party level – 4
2 XP
10 XP

Party level – 3
3 XP
15 XP

Party level – 2
4 XP
20 XP

Party level – 1
6 XP
30 XP

Party level
8 XP
40 XP

Party level + 1
12 XP
60 XP

Party level + 2
16 XP
80 XP

Party level + 3
24 XP
120 XP

Party level + 4
32 XP
160 XP
PARTY SIZE
The rules for advancement assume a group of four PCs.
The rules for encounters (page 489) describe how to
accommodate groups of a different size, but the XP awards
don’t change—always award the amount of XP listed for a
group of four characters. You usually won’t need to make
many adjustments for a differently sized group outside of
encounters. Be careful of providing too many ways to get
accomplishment XP when you have a large group, though,
since they can pursue multiple accomplishments at once,
which can lead to the PCs leveling up too fast.
GROUP PARITY AND PARTY LEVEL
It’s recommended that you keep all the player characters
at the same XP total. This makes it much easier to know
what challenges are suitable for your players. Having
characters at different levels can mean weaker characters
die more easily and their players feel less effective, which
in turn makes the game less fun for those players.
If you choose not to keep the whole group at the same
character level, you’ll need to select a party level to determine
your XP budget for encounters. Choose the level you think
best represents the party’s ability as a whole. Use the highest
level if only one or two characters are behind, or an average
if everyone is at a different level. If only one character is
two or more levels ahead, use a party level suitable for the
lower-level characters, and adjust the encounters as if there
were one additional PC for every 2 levels the higher-level
character has beyond the rest of the party.
Party members who are behind the party level gain
double the XP other characters do until they reach the
party’s level. When tracking individually, you’ll need to
decide whether party members get XP for missed sessions.
Treasure
As the GM, it’s your job to distribute treasure to the player
characters. Treasure appears throughout an adventure,
and the PCs obtain it by raiding treasure hoards, defeating
foes who carry valuable items or currency, getting paid
for successful quests, and any other way you can imagine.
This section provides guidelines for distributing treasure
in a typical Pathfinder campaign, but you always have
the freedom to assign extra treasure for a high‑powered
game, less treasure for a gritty survival horror adventure,
or any amount in between.
TREASURE BY LEVEL
Table 10–9: Party Treasure by Level on the next page shows
how much treasure you should give out over the course of a
level for a group of four PCs. The Total Value column gives
an approximate total value of all the treasure, in case you
want to spend it like a budget. The next several columns
provide suggestions for breaking down that total into
permanent items, which the PCs keep and use for a long
time; consumables, which are destroyed after being used
once; and currency, which includes coins, gems, and other
valuables primarily spent to acquire items or services. The
final column gives the amount of currency to add for each
PC beyond four in the group; use this only if you have more
than four characters in the game. (Different Party Sizes on
page 510 provides more guidance on this.)
For instance, between the time your PCs reach 3rd
level and the time they reach 4th level, you should give
them the treasure listed in the table for 3rd level, worth
approximately 500 gp: two 4th-level permanent items, two
3rd-level permanent items, two 4th-level consumables, two
3rd-level consumables, two 2nd-level consumables, and
120 gp worth of currency.
When assigning 1st-level permanent items, your best
options are armor, weapons, and other gear from Chapter 6
worth between 10 and 20 gp. The treasure listed in the row
for 20th level represents a full level’s worth of adventures,
even though there is no way to reach 21st level.
Some creature entries in the Pathfinder Bestiary list
treasure that can be gained by defeating an individual
creature; this counts toward the treasure for any given level.
Published adventures include a suitable amount of treasure
throughout the adventure, though you should still monitor
the party’s capabilities as the PCs progress through the
adventure to make sure they don’t end up behind.
Core Rulebook
508
