GENIUS MUTAGEN
FEAT 16
ALCHEMIST
Specialized tweaks to your formula that supplements your
genius considerably broaden the benefits you gain from
cognitive mutagens. When you’re affected by a cognitive
mutagen you created, you also gain the mutagen’s item bonus
to Deception, Diplomacy, Intimidation, Medicine, Nature,
Performance, Religion, and Survival checks. In addition, you
can communicate telepathically with creatures within 60 feet
with whom you share a language. The communication is two-
way once you establish it, so a creature you contact can also
communicate with you.
PERSISTENT MUTAGEN
FEAT 16
ALCHEMIST
Prerequisites Extend Elixir
You’ve trained your physical form to remain stable within the
a given altered state. Once per day, when you consume an
alchemical item with the infused and mutagen traits that you
have crafted, you can retain its effects until the next time you
make your daily preparations instead of its normal duration.
18TH LEVEL
IMPROBABLE ELIXIRS
FEAT 18
ALCHEMIST
Your mastery of alchemical secrets enables you to replicate
effects most believe can be achieved only via magic. Select
a number of potions equal to your Intelligence modifier
(minimum 1) of 9th level or lower. You gain formulas to
Craft these potions as alchemical items with the elixir
trait. When Crafting these alchemical elixirs, you can
substitute alchemical reagents for an equal value of magical
components, and you can use alchemist’s tools instead of
any other required tool kits. Other than that, the formula
does not change. Once you’ve chosen the potion formulas,
they can’t be changed.
MINDBLANK MUTAGEN
FEAT 18
ALCHEMIST
With a minor adjustment of ratios in the formula for your
serene mutagen, you gain mental protections. When you’re
affected by a serene mutagen you created, detection,
revelation, and scrying effects of 9th level or lower detect
nothing from you or your possessions and auras. For instance,
detect magic would still detect other magic in the area, but not
any magic on you.
MIRACLE WORKER
FEAT 18
ALCHEMIST
Frequency once every 10 minutes
Your alchemical mastery can resuscitate the recently slain.
You can administer a true elixir of life to a creature who has
been dead for no more than 2 rounds. When you do, that
creature is immediately returned to life with 1 Hit Point and
becomes wounded 1.
PERFECT DEBILITATION
FEAT 18
ALCHEMIST
You have perfected the formulas for bombs that impede your
enemies. When you use Debilitating Bomb, your target avoids
the condition the bomb imposes only if it critically succeeds
at its saving throw.
20TH LEVEL
CRAFT PHILOSOPHER’S STONE
FEAT 20
ALCHEMIST
Your research has paid off, culminating in the legendary
philosopher’s stone. You learn the formula for the philosopher’s
stone (page 554) and can add it to your formula book.
MEGA BOMB [one-action]
FEAT 20
ADDITIVE 3
ALCHEMIST
Prerequisites Expanded Splash
Requirements You are holding an infused alchemical bomb
you crafted, with a level at least 3 lower than your advanced
alchemy level.
You add an incredibly powerful additive to a held bomb to
create a mega bomb, greatly increasing its area and power.
You use an Interact action to throw the mega bomb, rather
than Strike, and you don’t make an attack roll. The mega
bomb affects creatures in a 30-foot-radius burst, centered
within 60 feet of you. The bomb deals damage as if each
creature were the primary target, with a basic Reflex save.
On a failed save, a creature also takes any extra effects that
affect a primary target (such as flat-footed from bottled
lightning). While all targets in the area take splash damage
as primary targets, there is no further splash beyond that
area. If your next action after creating a mega bomb isn’t an
Interact action to throw it, the mega bomb denatures and
loses all effects.
PERFECT MUTAGEN
FEAT 20
ALCHEMIST
You have enhanced the formulas for your mutagens, aligning
them perfectly to your physiology. When under the effect of a
mutagen you crafted, you do not suffer its drawback.
SAMPLE FORMULA BOOK
You can choose any 1st-level common alchemical items
for your formula book, but the list below contains a good
selection of starter formulas. A beginner’s book with these
formulas called The Fundamentals of Alchemy has become
popular among mainstream alchemists by staying away
from controversial topics like mutagens, though it has
drawn criticism from fringe alchemists for guiding fledgling
alchemists away from more innovative experiments.
Alchemical Item Formulas: Lesser acid flask, lesser
alchemist’s fire, lesser antidote, lesser antiplague, lesser
cheetah’s elixir, lesser elixir of life, lesser tanglefoot
bag, lesser smokestick.
81
3
CLASSES
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Skills
Feats
Equipment
Spells
The Age of
Lost OMENS
Playing the
Game
Game
mastering
Crafting
& Treasure
Appendix
