MONITORING SPELL DURATIONS
Spell durations are approximate values that codify the
vagaries and eccentricities of magic into a convenient
number. However, that doesn’t mean you can set your
watch by a spell with a 1-hour duration. This is one of
the reasons the passage of time outside of encounters is
in your hands and isn’t as precise as encounter rounds.
If a question arises about whether a spell has expired,
you make the call. You shouldn’t be punitive, but you also
shouldn’t treat characters like they move with clockwork
precision and perfect efficiency between encounters.
There are two times these durations matter most: when
players try to fit multiple encounters within the duration
of a spell, and when they want to use a spell before a fight
and keep it in effect during the encounter.
Multiple Encounters
A 1-minute spell should last for multiple encounters only if
the encounters happen in very close proximity (usually in
two adjoining rooms) and if the PCs go directly from one
fight to the next without leaving encounter mode. If they
want to stop and heal, or if the party debates whether to go
on, the process takes enough time that the spell runs out.
Be more generous with spells lasting 10 minutes or
more. A 10-minute spell easily lasts for one encounter and
could continue for another if the locations are close. A
1-hour spell usually lasts for several encounters.
Before a Fight
Casting advantageous spells before a fight (sometimes
called “pre-buffing”) gives the characters a big advantage,
since they can spend more combat rounds on offensive
actions instead of preparatory ones. If the players have the
drop on their foes, you usually can let each character cast
one spell or prepare in some similar way, then roll initiative.
Casting preparatory spells before combat becomes
a problem when it feels rote and the players assume it
will always work—that sort of planning can’t hold up in
every situation! In many cases, the act of casting spells
gives away the party’s presence. In cases where the PCs’
preparations could give them away, you might roll for
initiative before everyone can complete their preparations.
you should usually offer the choice of that roll or
Perception and let the player decide. Don’t do this if it’s
absolutely clear another kind of check matters more sense
than Perception, such as when the character is sneaking
up on enemies and should definitely use Stealth.
You can allow a player to make a case that they should
use a different skill than Perception, but only if they
base it on something they’ve established beforehand. For
example, if in the prelude to the attack, Merisiel’s player
had said, “I’m going to dangle down off the chandelier to
get the drop on them,” you could let them use Acrobatics
for their initiative roll. If they just said, “Hey, I want to
attack these guys. Can I use Acrobatics?” without having
established a reason beforehand, you probably shouldn’t
allow it.
Character Placement
When calling for initiative for a combat encounter, you’ll
need to decide where the participants in the encounter
go on the battle map. Use the party’s order, described on
page 497, as a base. You can move forward characters
who are using Stealth to get into position, putting them
in a place they could reasonably have moved up to before
having a chance to be detected. Consult with each player
to make sure their position makes sense to both of you.
RESTING
Characters require 8 hours of sleep each day. Though
resting typically happens at night, a group gains the
same benefits for resting during the day. Either way,
they can gain the benefits of resting only once every 24
hours. A character who rests for 8 hours recovers in the
following ways:
•	 The character regains Hit Points equal to their
Constitution modifier (minimum 1) multiplied
by their level. If they rest without any shelter or
comfort, you might reduce this healing by half (to a
minimum of 1 HP).
•	 The character loses the fatigued condition.
•	 The character reduces the severity of the doomed
and drained conditions by 1.
•	 Most spellcasters need to rest before they regain
their spells for the day.
A group in exploration mode can attempt to rest, but
they aren’t entirely safe from danger, and their rest might
be interrupted. The 8 hours of rest do not need to be
consecutive, however, and after an interruption, characters
can go back to sleep.
Sleeping in armor results in poor rest and causes a
character to wake up fatigued. If a character would have
recovered from fatigue, sleeping in armor prevents it.
If a character goes more than 16 hours without going
to sleep, they become fatigued.
Taking long-term rest for faster recovery is part of
downtime and can’t be done during exploration. See
page 502 for these rules.
Watches and Surprise Attacks
Adventuring parties usually put a few people on guard to
watch out for danger while the others rest. Spending time
on watch also interrupts sleep, so a night’s schedule needs
to account for everyone’s time on guard duty. Table 10–3:
Watches and Rest on the next page indicates how long the
group needs to set aside for rest, assuming everyone gets a
rotating watch assignment of equal length.
If a surprise encounter would occur during rest, you
can roll a die to randomly determine which character is
on watch at the time. All characters roll initiative; sleeping
characters typically roll Perception with a –4 status penalty
GAME MASTERING
499
10
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Skills
Feats
Equipment
Spells
The Age of
Lost OMENS
Playing the
Game
Game
mastering
Crafting
& Treasure
Appendix
