Bomber: Choose two of the following formulas: lesser
acid flask, lesser alchemist’s fire, lesser bottled lightning,
lesser liquid ice, lesser tanglefoot bag, lesser thunderstone.
Chirurgeon: Lesser antidote and lesser antiplague.
Mutagenist: Choose two of the following formulas:
lesser bestial mutagen, lesser bullheaded mutagen, lesser
cognitive mutagen, lesser juggernaut mutagen, lesser
quicksilver mutagen, lesser silvertongue mutagen.
Alchemical Expertise 
9th
Constant practice has increased the effectiveness of your
concoctions. Your proficiency rank for your alchemist
class DC increases to expert.
Alertness 
9th
You remain alert to threats around you. Your proficiency
rank for Perception increases to expert.
Double Brew 
9th
You know your formulas so well that you can concoct
two items at once. When using the Quick Alchemy
action, instead of spending one batch of infused reagents
to create a single item, you can spend up to two batches
of infused reagents to make up to two alchemical items
as described in that action. These items do not have to
be the same.
Juggernaut 
11th
Your body has become accustomed to physical hazards
and resistant to pathogens and ailments. Your proficiency
rank for Fortitude saves increases to master. When you
roll a success on a Fortitude save, you get a critical
success instead.
Perpetual Potency 
11th
Your perpetual infusions improve, allowing you to use
Quick Alchemy to create more powerful items with no
cost. The items you can select depend on your research
field and must be in your formula book.
Bomber: The moderate versions of the bombs you
chose for perpetual infusions.
Chirurgeon: Moderate antidote and antiplague.
Mutagenist: The moderate versions of the mutagens you
chose for perpetual infusions.
Greater Field Discovery 
13th
You learn an incredible discovery that advances your
understanding of your field.
Bomber: You can increase the splash on your bombs
to damage creatures within 10 feet, or 15 feet if you have
Expanded Splash.
Chirurgeon: When you use Quick Alchemy to create
any type of elixir of life, the creature drinking the
elixir gains the maximum Hit Points possible for that
elixir, instead of rolling to determine the number of Hit
Points regained.
Mutagenist: If you imbibe another mutagen while
you are under the effects of a mutagen that you created,
you can gain the benefits and the drawbacks of both
mutagens at once, despite the fact that they both have
the polymorph trait and would not normally function
together. If you come under the effects of any further
mutagens while benefiting from two mutagens, you lose
the benefit of one of the former mutagens of your choice,
while retaining the drawbacks of all the mutagens. If
you are under the effects of two mutagens and you come
under the effect of a non-mutagen polymorph effect,
you lose the benefits of the mutagens while retaining the
drawbacks of both.
Light Armor Expertise 
13th
You’ve learned how to dodge while wearing light or
no armor. Your proficiency ranks for light armor and
unarmored defense increase to expert.
Weapon Specialization 
13th
You’ve learned how to inflict greater injuries with the
weapons you know best. You deal 2 additional damage
with weapons and unarmed attacks in which you are an
expert. This damage increases to 3 if you’re a master, and
to 4 if you’re legendary.
Alchemical Alacrity 
15th
Your comfort in concocting items is such that you can
create three at a time. When using the Quick Alchemy
action, you can spend up to three batches of infused
reagents to make up to three alchemical items as
described in that action. These items do not have to be
the same.
KEY TERMS
You’ll see the following key terms in many alchemist
abilities.
Additive: Feats with the additive trait allow you
to spend actions to add special substances to bombs
or elixirs. You can add only one additive to a single
alchemical item, and attempting to add another spoils
the item. You can typically use actions with the additive
trait only when you’re creating an infused alchemical
item, and some can be used only with the Quick Alchemy
action. The additive trait is always followed by a level,
such as additive 2. An additive adds its level to the level
of the alchemical item you’re modifying; the result is the
new level of the mixture. The mixture’s item level must be
no higher than your advanced alchemy level.
Infused: You created an alchemical item with the
infused trait using your infused reagents, and it has a
limited time before it becomes inert. Any nonpermanent
effects from your infused alchemical items, with the
exception of afflictions such as slow-acting poisons, end
when you make your daily preparations again.
75
3
CLASSES
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Skills
Feats
Equipment
Spells
The Age of
Lost OMENS
Playing the
Game
Game
mastering
Crafting
& Treasure
Appendix
