•	 You must first try to redeem those who commit
evil acts, rather than killing them or meting out
punishment. If they then continue on a wicked path,
you might need to take more extreme measures.
•	 You must show compassion for others, regardless
of their authority or station.
Liberator (Chaotic Good)
You’re committed to defending the freedom of others.
You gain the Liberating Step champion’s reaction and
the lay on hands devotion spell. After the tenets of good,
add these tenets:
•	 You must respect the choices others make over their
own lives, and you can’t force someone to act in a
particular way or threaten them if they don’t.
•	 You must demand and fight for others’ freedom to
make their own decisions. You may never engage
in or countenance slavery or tyranny.
Deific Weapon
You zealously bear your deity’s favored weapon. If it’s
uncommon, you gain access to it. If it’s a simple weapon,
increase the damage die by one step (d4 to d6, d6 to d8,
d8 to d10, d10 to d12).
Champion’s Reaction
Your cause gives you a special reaction: Retributive
Strike for paladin, Glimpse of Redemption for
redeemer, or Liberating Step for liberator.
RETRIBUTIVE STRIKE [reaction]
CHAMPION
Trigger An enemy damages your ally, and both are within
15 feet of you.
You protect your ally and strike your foe. The ally gains
resistance to all damage against the triggering damage
equal to 2 + your level. If the foe is within reach, make a
melee Strike against it.
GLIMPSE OF REDEMPTION [reaction]
CHAMPION
Trigger An enemy damages your ally, and
both are within 15 feet of you.
Your foe hesitates under the weight of sin as
visions of redemption play in their mind’s eye. The
foe must choose one of the following options:
•	 The ally is unharmed by the triggering damage.
•	 The ally gains resistance to all damage against
the triggering damage equal to 2 + your level.
After the damaging effect is applied, the enemy
becomes enfeebled 2 until the end of its next turn.
LIBERATING STEP [reaction]
CHAMPION
Trigger An enemy damages, Grabs, or Grapples your ally, and
both are within 15 feet of you.
You free an ally from restraint. If the trigger was an ally
taking damage, the ally gains resistance to all damage
against the triggering damage equal to 2 + your level. The
ally can attempt to break free of effects grabbing, restraining,
immobilizing, or paralyzing them. They either attempt a new
save against one such effect that allows a save, or attempt
to Escape from one effect as a free action. If they can move,
the ally can Step as a free action, even if they didn’t need
to escape.
107
3
CLASSES
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Skills
Feats
Equipment
Spells
The Age of
Lost OMENS
Playing the
Game
Game
mastering
Crafting
& Treasure
Appendix
