Winter clothing allows you to negate the damage from
severe environmental cold and reduce the damage from
extreme cold to that of severe cold.
Compass: A compass helps you Sense Direction or
navigate, provided you’re in  a location with uniform
magnetic fields. Without a compass, you take a –2 item
penalty to these checks (similar to using a shoddy item).
A lensatic compass gives you a +1
item bonus to these checks.
Crowbar: When Forcing Open
an object that doesn’t have an
easy grip, a crowbar makes
it easier to gain the necessary
leverage. Without
a
crowbar,
prying something open takes a
–2 item penalty to the Athletics
check to Force Open (similar to
using a shoddy item). A levered
crowbar grants you a +1 item bonus
to Athletics checks to Force Open
anything that can be pried open.
Disguise Kit: This small wooden box contains
cosmetics, false facial hair, spirit gum, and a few simple
wigs. You usually need a disguise kit to set up a disguise in
order to Impersonate someone using the Deception skill.
An elite disguise kit adds a +1 item bonus to relevant
checks. If you’ve crafted a large number of disguises, you
can replenish your cosmetics supply with replacement
cosmetics suitable for the type of your disguise kit.
Fishing Tackle: This kit include a collapsible fishing
pole, fishhooks, line, lures, and a fishing net. Professional
fishing tackle grants a +1 item bonus to checks to fish.
Flint and Steel: Flint and steel are useful in creating a
fire if you have the time to catch a spark, though using
them is typically too time-consuming to be practical
during an encounter. Even in ideal conditions, using flint
and steel to light a flame requires using at least 3 actions,
and often significantly longer.
Formula Book: A formula book holds the formulas
necessary to make items other than the common
equipment from this chapter; alchemists typically get one
for free. Each formula book can hold the formulas for
up to 100 different items. Formulas can also appear on
parchment sheets, tablets, and almost any other medium;
there’s no need for you to copy them into a specific book
as long as you can keep them on hand to reference them.
Grappling Hook: You can throw a grappling hook
with a rope tied to it to make a climb easier. To anchor a
grappling hook, make an attack roll with the secret trait
against a DC depending on the target, typically at least
DC 20. On a success, your hook has a firm hold, but
on a critical failure, the hook seems like it will hold but
actually falls when you’re partway up.
Healer’s Tools: This kit of bandages, herbs, and suturing
tools is necessary for Medicine checks to Administer
First Aid, Treat Disease, Treat Poison, or Treat Wounds.
Expanded healer’s tools provide a +1 item bonus to such
checks. When you carry the tools from place to place, you
keep many of the components handy on your person, in
pockets or bandoliers.
Holly and Mistletoe: Plants of supernatural significance
provide
a
primal
focus
for
primal
spellcasters, such as druids, when using
certain abilities and casting some spells.
A bundle of holly and mistletoe must
be held in one hand to use it. Other
primal foci exist for druids focused
on other aspects of nature.
Lantern: A lantern sheds
bright light and requires 1 pint
of oil to function for 6 hours.
A bull’s-eye lantern emits its
light in a 60‑foot cone (and
dim light in the next 60 feet).
A hooded lantern sheds light
in a 30‑foot radius (and dim light
in the next 30 feet) and is equipped
with shutters, which you can close to block the light.
Closing or opening the shutters takes an Interact action.
Lock: Picking a poor lock requires two successful DC
15 Thievery checks, a simple lock requires three successful
DC  20 Thievery checks, an average lock requires four
successes at DC 25, a good lock requires five successes at
DC 30, and a superior lock six successes at DC 40.
Magnifying Glass: This quality handheld lens gives you
a +1 item bonus to Perception checks to notice minute
details of documents, fabric, and the like.
Manacles: You can manacle someone who is willing or
otherwise at your mercy as an exploration activity taking
10–30 seconds depending on the creature’s size and how
many manacles you apply. A two-legged creature with its
legs bound takes a –15-foot circumstance penalty to its
Speeds, and a two-handed creature with its wrists bound
has to succeed at a DC 5 flat check any time it uses a
manipulate action or else that action fails. This DC may
be higher depending on how tightly the manacles constrain
the hands. A creature bound to a stationary object is
immobilized. For creatures with more or fewer limbs, the
GM determines what effect manacles have, if any. Freeing
a creature from poor manacles requires two successful
DC 17 Thievery checks, simple manacles requires three
successes at DC 22, average manacles require four successes
at DC 27, good manacles require five successes at DC 32,
and superior manacles require six successes at DC 42.
Material Component Pouch: This pouch contains
material components for those spells that require them.
Though the components are used up over time, you can
refill spent components during your daily preparations.
Musical Instrument: Handheld instruments include
bagpipes, a small set of chimes, small drums, fiddles and
viols, flutes and recorders, small harps, lutes, trumpets,
and similarly sized instruments. The GM might rule that
Core Rulebook
290
