Evocation
Evocations capture magical energy and then shape it to
harm your foes or protect your allies. Evocation spells
often have a trait that comes from the type of damage
they deal, such as acid, cold, fire, force, or sonic.
Illusion
Illusions create the semblance of something real, fooling
the eyes, ears, and other senses. They almost always have
the mental trait, and depending on how the illusion is
perceived, they might also have the auditory or visual trait.
Necromancy
Necromancy spells harness the power of life and death.
They can sap life essence or sustain creatures with
life-saving  healing. Necromancy spells often have the
curse, death, healing, negative, or positive traits.
Transmutation
Transmutation spells make alterations to or transform
the physical form of a creature or object. The morph and
polymorph traits appear primarily in transmutation spells.
Spell Slots
Characters of spellcasting classes can cast a certain
number of spells each day; the spells you can cast in a
day are referred to as spell slots. At 1st level, a character
has only a small number of 1st-level spell slots per day,
but as you advance in level, you gain more spell slots and
new slots for higher-level spells. A spell’s level indicates its
overall power, from 1 to 10.
Prepared Spells
If you’re a prepared spellcaster—such as a cleric, druid, or
wizard—you must spend time each day preparing spells for
that day. At the start of your daily preparations, you select
a number of spells of different spell levels determined by
your character level and class. Your spells remain prepared
until you cast them or until you prepare spells again.
Each prepared spell is expended after a single casting,
so if you want to cast a particular spell more than once in
a day, you need to prepare that spell multiple times. The
exceptions to this rule are spells with the cantrip trait;
once you prepare a cantrip, you can cast it as many times
as you want until the next time you prepare spells. See
page 300 for more information on cantrips.
You might gain an ability that allows you to swap
prepared spells or perform other aspects of preparing
spells at different times throughout the day, but only your
daily preparation counts for the purpose of effects that
last until the next time you prepare spells.
Spontaneous Spells
If you’re a spontaneous spellcaster—such as a bard or
a sorcerer—you choose which spell you’re using a spell
SPELL ATTACK ROLL AND SPELL DC
Many spells allow creatures to defend themselves using
either their AC or a saving throw. Two statistics govern
how potent your spells are against these defenses: your
spell attack roll and your spell DC. When recording these
on your character sheet, add together only the numbers
that always apply—usually just your ability modifier and
proficiency bonus.
Spell attack roll = your spellcasting ability modifier +
proficiency bonus + other bonuses + penalties
Spell DC = 10 + your spellcasting ability modifier +
proficiency bonus + other bonuses + penalties
A spell attack roll is like other attack rolls, so any bonuses
or penalties that apply to all your attack rolls should be
included in your calculation. For instance, the +1 status
bonus from the bless spell would benefit your spell ray just
like it could an arrow. However, note that the spell attack roll
doesn’t gain any bonuses or penalties that apply specifically
to weapon attacks or unarmed attacks. The multiple attack
penalty applies to spell attacks, so it’s usually a bad idea to
cast a spell that has a spell attack roll if you’ve already made
an attack that turn.
As with other checks and DCs, bonuses can increase the
result of your spell attack roll or your spell DC, and penalties
can decrease the result of your spell attack roll or your spell
DC. See pages 444–445 in Chapter 9: Playing the Game for
more information about modifiers, bonuses, and penalties.
DISBELIEVING ILLUSIONS
Sometimes illusions allow an affected creature a chance
to disbelieve the spell, which lets the creature effectively
ignore the spell if it succeeds at doing so. This usually
happens when a creature Seeks or otherwise spends
actions to engage with the illusion, comparing the result
of its Perception check (or another check or saving throw,
at the GM’s discretion) to the caster’s spell DC. Mental
illusions typically provide rules in the spell’s description
for disbelieving the effect (often allowing the affected
creature to attempt a Will save).
If the illusion is visual, and a creature interacts with
the illusion in a way that would prove it is not what
it seems, the creature might know that an illusion is
present, but it still can’t ignore the illusion without
successfully disbelieving it. For instance, if a character
is pushed through the illusion of a door, they will know
that the door is an illusion, but they still can’t see
through it. Disbelieving an illusion makes it and those
things it blocks seem hazy and indistinct, so even in the
case where a visual illusion is disbelieved, it may, at the
GM’s discretion, block vision enough to make those on
the other side concealed..
Core Rulebook
298
