mask’s bonus; Effect You change the mask’s character and
reroll the Performance check, using the second result.
PHYLACTERY OF FAITHFULNESS
ITEM 9+
DIVINATION
 DIVINE
 INVESTED
Usage worn circlet; Bulk L
This tiny box holds a fragment of religious scripture
sacred to a particular deity. The box is worn by affixing
it to a leather cord and tying it around your head
just above your brow. You don’t gain any benefit
from the phylactery if you don’t worship the
affiliated deity. The phylactery grants you
religious wisdom, which manifests as a +2
item bonus to Religion checks. Just before you
perform an action that would be anathema to the
phylactery’s deity, the phylactery warns you of the
potential transgression in time for you to change
your mind.
Activate [one-action] envision; Frequency once per day; Effect You
ask for guidance about a particular course of action, gaining
the effects of an augury spell.
Type phylactery of faithfulness; Level 9; Price 680 gp
Type greater phylactery of faithfulness; Level 17; Price
13,000 gp
The phylactery grants a +3 item bonus, and you can activate
it once every 30 minutes.
Craft Requirements You worship the phylactery’s deity.
RING OF CLIMBING
ITEM 12
INVESTED
 MAGICAL
 TRANSMUTATION
Price 1,750 gp
Usage worn; Bulk —
Claw-like prongs on his thick golden band bears extend to
dig deep into sheer surfaces when you are Climbing. This
ring grants you a climb Speed equal to half your land Speed.
Penalties to your Speed (including those from your armor)
apply before halving.
RING OF COUNTERSPELLS
ITEM 10
UNCOMMON
 ABJURATION
 INVESTED
 MAGICAL
Price 925 gp
Usage worn; Bulk —
This ornate silver ring bears two competing geometric designs
of brightly colored and wildly clashing inlaid gemstones. A
spellcaster can cast a single spell into this ring as long as no
spell is currently stored within, expending the normal time,
costs, and so forth to Cast the Spell. The spell’s effect doesn’t
occur; the spell’s power is instead stored within the ring.
When you invest a ring of counterspells, you immediately
know the name and level of the spell stored inside, if any. A
ring of counterspells found as treasure has a 50% chance of
having a spell stored in it. The GM determines that spell.
Activate [reaction] envision; Trigger You are targeted by or within
the area of the spell stored within the ring; Effect You can
attempt to counteract the triggering spell, using the level of
the spell stored in the ring and a counteract modifier of +19.
Once you do, the stored spell’s energy is spent, and the ring
is empty.
Activate [one-action] command; Effect You harmlessly expend the
stored spell, having no effect but emptying the ring so that
another spell can be cast into it.
RING OF ENERGY RESISTANCE
ITEM 6+
ABJURATION
 INVESTED
 MAGICAL
Usage worn; Bulk —
This ring grants you resistance 5 against one
type of energy damage: acid, cold, electricity,
fire, or sonic. Each ring is crafted to protect
against a particular type of energy damage,
and its design usually embodies the type of
energy it protects the wearer from in some
way. For instance, a ring of fire resistance might be
capped with a ruby, whereas a ring of cold resistance
features a sapphire instead.
Type ring of energy resistance; Level 6; Price 245 gp
Type greater ring of energy resistance; Level 10; Price 975 gp
The ring grants resistance 10.
Type major ring of energy resistance; Level 14; Price 4,400 gp
The ring grants resistance 15.
RING OF LIES
ITEM 10
UNCOMMON
ENCHANTMENT
 INVESTED
 MAGICAL
Price 850 gp
Usage worn; Bulk —
This plain silver ring has an almost oily sheen. While wearing
the ring, you gain a +2 item bonus to Deception checks.
Activate [two-actions] Interact; Effect Snapping your fingers on the
hand that wears the ring causes the ring to cast glibness on
you with no visual manifestations of a spell being cast.
RING OF MANIACAL DEVICES
ITEM 11+
DIVINATION
 INVESTED
 MAGICAL
Usage worn; Bulk —
This ring seems like simple tarnished brass, but it enhances
your curiosity about traps and devices of all kinds. You can
use an Interact action to pull a set of thieves’ tools from the
ring. These tools appear in your hand and fold back into the
ring if they would leave your possession. They grant you a +2
item bonus to Thievery checks to Disable a Device and to Pick
a Lock, and the ring’s insights grant you the same bonus to
Crafting checks to Craft and Repair snares and traps.
Activate 10 minutes (Interact); Frequency once per day;
Effect You create a 4th-level glyph of warding containing
fireball. You can have only one glyph of warding from a
ring of maniacal devices active at a time, even if you have
multiple rings, and the spell ends if you lose your investiture
in the ring.
Type ring of maniacal devices; Level 11; Price 1,175 gp
Type greater ring of maniacal devices; Level 18; Price 4,250 gp
The ring grants a +3 bonus. Activating it creates an 8th-level
glyph of warding containing your choice of either prismatic
spray or 7th-level fireball.
Core Rulebook
614
