use your Charisma modifier unless the ability that granted
them states otherwise. Focus spells and other sources of
spells specify which ability modifier you use for spell attack
rolls in the ability that granted them. If you have spells from
multiple sources or traditions, you might use different ability
modifiers for spell attack rolls for these different sources of
spells. For example, a dwarf cleric with the Stonewalker
ancestry feat would use her Charisma modifier when casting
meld into stone from that feat, since it’s a divine innate spell,
but she would use her Wisdom modifier when casting heal
and other spells using her cleric divine spellcasting.
Determine the spell attack roll with the following formula.
Spell attack roll result = d20 roll + ability modifier
used for spellcasting + proficiency bonus + other
bonuses + penalties
If you have the ability to cast spells, you’ll have a
proficiency rank for your spell attack rolls, so you’ll
always add a proficiency bonus. Like your ability
modifier, this proficiency rank may vary from one spell
increment, and attacks with them grow less accurate
against targets farther away (range and range increments
are covered in depth on page 279). As long as your target is
at or within the listed range increment, also called the first
range increment, you take no penalty to the attack roll. If
you’re attacking beyond that range increment, you take a
–2 penalty for each additional increment beyond the first.
You can attempt to attack with a ranged weapon or thrown
weapon up to six range increments away, but the farther
away you are, the harder it is to hit your target.
For example, the range increment of a crossbow is 120
feet. If you are shooting at a target no farther away than
that distance, you take no penalty due to range. If they’re
beyond 120 feet but no more than 240 feet away, you
take a –2 penalty due to range. If they’re beyond 240 feet
but no more than 360 feet away, you take a –4 penalty
due to range, and so on, until you reach the last range
increment: beyond 600 feet but no more than 720 feet
away, where you take a –10 penalty due to range.
Armor Class
Attack rolls are compared to a special difficulty class called
an Armor Class (AC), which measures how hard it is for
your foes to hit you with Strikes and other attack actions.
Just like for any other check and DC, the result of an
attack roll must meet or exceed your AC to be successful,
which allows your foe to deal damage to you.
Armor Class is calculated using the following formula.
Armor Class = 10 + Dexterity modifier (up to your
armor’s Dex Cap) + proficiency bonus + armor’s
item bonus to AC + other bonuses + penalties
Use the proficiency bonus for the category (light,
medium, or heavy) or the specific type of armor you’re
wearing. If you’re not wearing armor, use your proficiency
in unarmored defense.
Armor Class can benefit from bonuses with a variety
of sources, much like attack rolls. Armor itself grants an
item bonus, so other item bonuses usually won’t apply to
your AC, but magic armor can increase the item bonus
granted by your armor.
Penalties to AC come from situations and effects in
much the same way bonuses do. Circumstance penalties
come from unfavorable situations, and status penalties
come from effects that impede your abilities or from
broken armor. You take an item penalty when you wear
shoddy armor (page 273).
Spell Attack Rolls
If you cast spells, you might be able to make a spell attack
roll. These rolls are usually made when a spell makes an
attack against a creature’s AC.
The ability modifier for a spell attack roll depends on
how you gained access to your spells. If your class grants
you spellcasting, use your key ability modifier. Innate spells
STRIDING AND STRIKING
Two of the simplest and most common actions you’ll use in
combat are Stride and Strike, described in full on page 471.
Stride is an action that has the move trait and that
allows you to move a number of feet up to your Speed.
You’ll often need to Stride multiple times to reach a foe
who’s far away or to run from danger! Move actions can
often trigger reactions or free actions. However, unlike
other actions, a move action can trigger reactions not
only when you first use the action, but also for every 5
feet you move during that action, as described on page
474. The Step action (page 471) lets you move without
triggering reactions, but only 5 feet.
Strike is an action that has the attack trait and that
allows you to attack with a weapon you’re wielding or an
unarmed attack (such as a fist).
If you’re using a melee weapon or unarmed attack, your
target must be within your reach; if you’re attacking with
a ranged weapon, your target must be within range. Your
reach is how far you can physically extend a part of your
body to make an unarmed attack, or the farthest distance
you can reach with a melee weapon. This is typically 5
feet, but special weapons and larger creatures have longer
reaches. Your range is how far away you can attack with
a ranged weapon or with some types of magical attacks.
Different weapons and magical attacks have different
maximum ranges, and ranged weapons get less effective
as you exceed their range increments.
Striking multiple times in a turn has diminishing
returns. The multiple attack penalty (detailed on page
446) applies to each attack after the first, whether those
attacks are Strikes, special attacks like the Grapple action
of the Athletics skill, or spell attack rolls.
447
9
PLAYING THE GAME
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Skills
Feats
Equipment
Spells
The Age of
Lost OMENS
Playing the
Game
Game
mastering
Crafting
& Treasure
Appendix
