This item consists of two magically linked rings: an
intricate, gleaming golden ring with a square-cut ruby, and
a thick, plain iron ring. When you wield a melee weapon in
the hand wearing the golden ring, the weapon’s fundamental
runes are replicated onto any melee weapon you
wield in the hand wearing the iron ring. (The
fundamental runes are weapon potency
and striking, which add an item bonus
to attack rolls and extra weapon
damage dice, respectively.) Any
fundamental runes on the
weapon in the hand wearing
the iron ring are suppressed.
The replication functions only
if you wear both rings, and it ends as
soon as you cease wielding a melee weapon in
one of your hands. Consequently, the benefit
doesn’t apply to thrown attacks or if you’re
holding a weapon but not wielding it
(such as holding in one hand a weapon
that requires two hands to wield).
Type doubling rings; Level 3; Price 50 gp
Type greater doubling rings; Level 11; Price
1,300 gp
The rings also replicate property runes from the weapon in
the gold-ringed hand, so long as the weapon in the iron-ringed
hand meets all the prerequisites for a given rune and is not
a specific weapon. The weapon in the iron-ringed hand gains
the benefits of those runes. All its own runes are suppressed.
When you invest the rings, you can elect for the rings to
transfer only fundamental runes, in which case they function
as standard doubling rings.
DREAD BLINDFOLD
ITEM 17
EMOTION
ENCHANTMENT
 FEAR
 INVESTED
 MAGICAL
 MENTAL
Price 15,000 gp
Usage worn eyepiece; Bulk —
When tied over your eyes, this ragged strip of black linen
gives you a +3 item bonus to Intimidation checks and
darkvision. You can see through the blindfold, but only
using darkvision.
The first time a particular creature sees you in a day, it
must succeed at a DC 37 Will save or be frightened 1. This
is an emotion, fear, and mental effect, and your allies become
immune to it after about a week.
Activate [free-action] command; Frequency once per
minute; Trigger You damage a creature with a
Strike; Effect Your target is gripped by intense
fear. This has the effect of a DC 37 phantasmal
killer spell, but it is an enchantment instead
of an illusion. The creature is then temporarily immune for
24 hours.
DRUID’S VESTMENTS
ITEM 10
FOCUSED
 INVESTED
 PRIMAL
 TRANSMUTATION
Price 1,000 gp
Usage worn garment; Bulk L
This brown-and-green tunic is embroidered with patterns that
resemble interlocking elk antlers. You gain a +2 item bonus to
Nature checks.
Activate [free-action] envision; Frequency once per day; Effect You
gain 1 Focus Point, which you can spend only to cast an
order spell. If you don’t spend this Focus Point by the
end of this turn, it is lost.
Craft Requirements You are a druid.
EYE OF FORTUNE 
ITEM 13
DIVINATION
 INVESTED
 MAGICAL
Price 2,700 gp
Usage worn eyepiece; Bulk —
Adherents of Erastil, god of the hunt, create
these magical eye patches. An eye of fortune has
a jeweled eye symbol on its front, allowing you to
magically see through the eye patch as though it
were transparent.
Activate [free-action] envision (fortune); Trigger You
attack a concealed or hidden creature and
haven’t attempted the flat check yet; Effect You
can roll the flat check for the concealed or hidden
condition twice and use the higher result.
EYES OF THE EAGLE
ITEM 9
INVESTED
 MAGICAL
 TRANSMUTATION
Price 700 gp
Usage worn eyepiece; Bulk —
These lenses of amber crystal fit over your eyes. They grant
you low-light vision and a +2 item bonus to Perception checks
that involve sight.
GLOVES OF STORING
ITEM 7
UNCOMMON
 EXTRADIMENSIONAL
 INVESTED
 MAGICAL
 TRANSMUTATION
Price 340 gp
Usage worn gloves; Bulk —
An item can be stored inside these supple leather gloves, held
in an extradimensional space. When an item is inside the
glove, an image of the item appears as a simple,
stitched pattern on the back of each glove.
Many gloves of storing are found with an item
already inside.
Activate [one-action] Interact; Requirements No item
is stored in the gloves; Effect One item you’re
holding with a Bulk of 1 or less vanishes into the gloves’
extradimensional space.
Activate [free-action] Interact; Requirements An item is stored
in the gloves, and you have a free hand; Effect The item
stored in the gloves appears in your hand. The gloves can’t be
activated again for 1 minute.
GOGGLES OF NIGHT
ITEM 5+
INVESTED
 MAGICAL
 TRANSMUTATION
Usage worn eyepiece; Bulk —
The opaque crystal lenses of these sleek goggles do not
Core Rulebook
610
