a disorganized scourge. But in truth, these pirates are
bound by a complex code of, if not honor, then a mutual
recognition that it’s always good to have allies on the
open seas. The Shackles are ruled by a council of pirate
lords who call themselves the Free Captains; they sail
the southern Arcadian Ocean and follow their own code
of rules when it comes to who can be raided and what
can be sunk—even if, to their victims, those rules seem
capricious and arbitrary.
Hellknights
Several different orders of the mercenaries
known collectively as Hellknights operate
in Avistan, with most of their number
stationed in the nation of Cheliax. These mercenaries see
the law of the land as inviolate and offer their services
as enforcers to any who can pay their prices. They wear
distinctive suits of intimidating armor and take the
legends of Hell as inspiration, but they see no one but
themselves as the true arbiters of law.
Knights of Lastwall
For centuries, the nation of Lastwall stood
as a bulwark against the orcs of Belkzen
and the lingering threat of the Whispering
Tyrant. But when the Whispering Tyrant escaped
his prison, he brought to his enemies in Lastwall a
devastating apocalypse. Now Lastwall is destroyed,
and the knights who once served there are without a
home. In its absence, they have formed a ragtag group
known as the Knights of Lastwall, and they carry on
their charge to stand against the undead legions of the
Whispering Tyrant wherever their skills are needed.
Lion Blades
The Lion Blades of Taldor are a secret
organization committed to protecting the
interests of Taldor and its ruler. They oppose
Taldor’s many enemies, foreign and domestic, through
a program of infiltration, espionage, and assassination.
One of the major goals of the Lion Blades is to rein in
corruption within the empire (aside from corruption that
is useful to them); another is keeping any one faction of
the imperial court from becoming powerful enough to
upset the status quo. Through its shadow schools, the
Lion Blades intensively train new recruits before investing
them with a high degree of initiative and latitude.
Magaambya
Golarion reeled from the disaster of
Earthfall, and its peoples took long to
recover. But recover they did, and one
of the first institutions to rise from the ashes of near
destruction was the Magaambya, an academy of arcane
learning founded by the legendary wizard known as Old-
Mage Jatembe. Today, the scholars of Magaambya not
only preserve ancient magical traditions founded in those
early days but also protect the learning and culture of the
Mwangi people as a whole.
Night Heralds
The Night Heralds turn to the lure of the
starlit night for guidance, seeking advice
and aid from forces far removed from
Golarion. The sinister aliens of the Dominion of the
Black hold special importance for the Night Heralds,
and many Night Heralds worship these inscrutable
beings almost as gods. Night Heralds seek and collect
obscure texts and mysterious lore from the ancient past
and peruse the secrets they find within to unravel larger
hidden meanings and obscured truths beyond reality.
Their hope is that when the world inevitably falls to
alien influence, they will be rewarded for their service by
the world’s new masters.
Pathfinder Society
Many of the greatest explorers and
adventurers of the modern age have
recorded their discoveries in an ongoing
series of chapbooks known as the Pathfinder Chronicles,
published irregularly by the Pathfinder Society itself.
This diverse group is devoted to exploring the world,
supporting its agents in the field, and ensuring the
discoveries they make are documented. The Society
often finds itself in conflict with the more mercenary
Aspis Consortium. The Pathfinder Society’s pursuit of
discovery often puts its agents in the thick of developing
plots, forcing them to choose between being heroes or
villains as events unfold.
Red Mantis
It’s easy to know if an assassination is the
work of the notorious Red Mantis; they
typically kill with a sacred sawtooth saber,
have a knack for targeting their victims in public or in
sanctuaries believed to be safe, and take steps to ensure
that those they are contracted to kill stay dead. Their
prices change with each mission, but no matter the offer,
the Red Mantis never targets rightfully ruling monarchs,
for their own deity, the mantis god Achaekek, forbids
the murder of those with a divine mandate to rule.
Sczarni
The Sczarni are a collection of Varisian
bandits, smugglers, and thieves. They are
organized into tightly knit families, each
of which has little or nothing in common with Sczarni
in other locations beyond shared skills, techniques, and
pursuits. Their crimes focus on thievery, scams, and other
relatively nonviolent acts, but since these crimes have
a tendency to spiral out of control, their schemes often
result in violence anyway.
Core Rulebook
436
