Human Ethnicities
A variety of ethnic groups make up the human populace of the continents bordering
Golarion’s Inner Sea. Many of these groups have origins on distant lands, but the Inner
Sea region has a diverse population drawn from across the globe. Human characters can
be from any of these ethnicities, regardless of what land they call home.
Characters from these ethnicities speak Common if they come from the Inner Sea
region, and some ethnicities give access to a regional language or another uncommon
language (page 65). Half-elves and half-orcs arise across all human ethnicities and bear
the features of both those ethnicities and their non-human parents.
Garundi
Garundi span the nations of northern Garund along the shores of the Inner Sea,
and their clans are known for strength and empathy, treating their neighbors with
compassion and respect. Their skin tones often range from dark brown to beige, and
they often have tall statures, broad shoulders, and high cheekbones. Garundi have
access to the Osiriani language.
Keleshite
Tracing their origins to the Keleshite Empire in the eastern deserts, Keleshites often
have black hair, brown eyes, and dark- to cool-brown skin. Their culture takes pride
in the empire’s legacy, valuing boldness, wit, and luxury. Fashions tend to incorporate
flowing fabrics, headdresses, and turbans. Keleshites have access to the Kelish language.
Kellid
In the mountains and steppes of northern Avistan, Kellids live hard lives to survive the
threats of the wild, wary of magic and relying on skill and might when hunting and
fighting. They are typically a brawny and dark-haired people, tanned and bearing eyes
that are often black, blue, or gray. Kellids have access to the Hallit language.
Mwangi
Spread across the vast continent of Garund, from the parched deserts in the north
to the dense jungles of the Mwangi Expanse, the Mwangi people are divided into
four diverse subgroups: Bekyar, Bonuwat, Mauxi, and Zenj. Mwangi skin tones
range from black to dark-brown to ocher, and they have black or dark-brown hair.
Mwangi have access to the Mwangi language.
Nidalese
Nidalese hail from a culture that escaped destruction during the Earthfall, when a
swarm of meteoroids carved out the Inner Sea. The ancient Nidalese pledged fealty to
an evil shadow god to obtain salvation, and the grip of Zon-Kuthon has tainted these
people ever since. Nidalese tend toward gray, ashy skin tones, with white, gray, or
black hair. Nidalese have access to the Shadowtongue language.
Shoanti
The Shoanti clans called quahs were long ago pushed out of lush territory in the nation
of Varisia into the harsh badlands of the Storval Plateau. Stalwart and tenacious, they
remain oath-sworn to someday retake what they’ve lost. Their skin tones typically
range from sepia to russet, and quah members are easily identified by their shaved
heads and traditional tattoos. Shoanti have access to the Shoanti language.
Cultures
Of course, there’s more to the world of Golarion than its geopolitical borders and wilderness
regions. It’s the people who dwell in those nations and the creatures that lurk in those wilds
who bring the world to life.
GARUNDI
MWANGI
NIDALESE
KELESHITE
KELLID
Core Rulebook
430
