activating a magic item to gain a bonus or casting a fortune
spell to roll twice. Constant benefits still apply, though,
so someone might invest a magic item that gives them
a bonus without requiring activation. You might make
specific exceptions to this rule. If something could apply
constantly, or so often that it might as well be constant, it’s
more likely to be used for downtime checks.
LONGER PERIODS OF DOWNTIME
Running downtime during a long time off—like several
weeks, months, or even years—can be more challenging.
However, it’s also an opportunity for the characters to
progress toward long-term plans rather than worrying
about day-to-day activities. Because so much time is
involved, characters don’t roll a check for each day.
Instead, they deal with a few special events, average out
the rest of the downtime, and pay for their cost of living.
Events
After the characters state what they want to achieve in their
downtime, select a few standout events for each of them—
usually one event for a period of a week or a month, or
four events for a year or longer. These events should be
tailored to each character and their goals, and they can
serve as hooks for adventures or plot development.
Though the following examples of downtime events
all involve Earning Income, you can use them to spark
ideas for other activities. A character using Perform to
Earn Income could produce a commanding performance
of a new play for visiting nobility. Someone using Crafting
might get a lucrative commission to craft a special item.
A character with Lore might have to research a difficult
problem that needs a quick response.
PCs who want to do things that don’t correspond to a
specific downtime activity should still experience downtime
events; you just choose the relevant skill and DC. For
example, if a character intends to build their own library
to house their books on magic, you might decide setting the
foundation and organizing the library once construction
is finished are major events. The first could be a Crafting
check, and the second an Arcana or Library Lore check.
Average Progress
For long periods of downtime, you might not want to
roll for every week, or even every month. Instead, set the
level for one task using the lowest level the character can
reliably find in the place where they spend their downtime
(see Difficulty Classes on page 503 for more on setting task
levels). If the character fails this check, you might allow
them to try again after a week (or a month, if you’re dealing
with years of downtime). Don’t allow them to roll again if
they succeeded but want to try for a critical success, unless
they do something in the story of the game that you think
makes it reasonable to allow a new roll.
The events you include during a long stretch of
downtime should typically feature higher-level tasks than
GAME MASTERING
501
10
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Skills
Feats
Equipment
Spells
The Age of
Lost OMENS
Playing the
Game
Game
mastering
Crafting
& Treasure
Appendix
