occurred from the disrupted action. For instance, a Leap
disrupted midway wouldn’t transport you back to the
start of your jump, and a disrupted item hand off might
cause the item to fall to the ground instead of staying in
the hand of the creature who was trying to give it away.
Movement
Your movement and position determine how you can
interact with the world. Moving around in exploration
and downtime modes is relatively fluid and free form.
Movement in encounter mode, by contrast, is governed
by rules explained in Movement in Encounters (page
473). The rules below apply regardless of which mode
you’re playing in.
Movement Types
Creatures in Pathfinder soar through the clouds, scale
sheer cliffs, and tunnel underfoot. Most creatures have
a Speed, which is how fast they can move across the
ground. Some abilities give you different ways to move,
such as through the air or underground.
Each of these special movement types has its own
Speed value. Many creatures have these Speeds naturally.
The various types of movement are listed below. Since the
Stride action can be used only with your normal Speed,
moving using one of these movement types requires using
a special action, and you can’t Step while using one of
these movement types. Since Speed by itself refers to your
land Speed, rules text concerning these special movement
types specifies the movement types to which it applies.
Even though Speeds aren’t checks, they can have item,
circumstance, and status bonuses and penalties. These can’t
reduce your Speeds below 5 feet unless stated otherwise.
Switching from one movement type to another requires
ending your action that has the first movement type and
using a new action that has the second movement type.
For instance, if you Climbed 10 feet to the top of a cliff,
you could then Stride forward 10 feet.
Speed
Most characters and monsters have a speed statistic—
also called land Speed—which indicates how quickly
they can move across the ground. When you use the
Stride action, you move a number of feet equal to your
Speed. Numerous other abilities also allow you to move,
from Crawling to Leaping, and most of them are based
on your Speed in some way. Whenever a rule mentions
your Speed without specifying a type, it’s referring to
your land Speed.
Burrow Speed
A burrow Speed lets you tunnel through the ground.
You can use the Burrow action (page 472) if you have
a burrow Speed. Burrowing doesn’t normally leave
behind a tunnel unless the ability specifically states that
it does. Most creatures need to hold their breath when
burrowing, and they may need tremorsense (page 465) to
navigate with any accuracy.
Climb Speed
A climb Speed allows you to move up or down inclines and
vertical surfaces. Instead of needing to attempt Athletics
checks to Climb, you automatically succeed and move up
to your climb Speed instead of the listed distance.
You might still have to attempt Athletics checks to
Climb in hazardous conditions, to Climb extremely
difficult surfaces, or to cross horizontal planes such as
ceilings. You can also choose to roll an Athletics check to
Climb rather than accept an automatic success in hopes
of getting a critical success. Your climb Speed grants you
a +4 circumstance bonus to Athletics checks to Climb.
If you have a climb Speed, you’re not flat-footed
while climbing.
Fly Speed
As long as you have a fly Speed, you can use the Fly
and Arrest a Fall actions (page 472). You can also
attempt to Maneuver in Flight if you’re trained in the
Acrobatics skill.
Wind conditions can affect how you use the Fly action.
In general, moving against the wind uses the same rules
as moving through difficult terrain (or greater difficult
terrain, if you’re also flying upward), and moving with
the wind allows you to move 10 feet for every 5 feet
of movement you spend (not cumulative with moving
straight downward). For more information on spending
movement, see Movement in Encounters on page 473.
Upward and downward movement are both relative
to the gravity in your area; if you’re in a place with
zero gravity, moving up or down is no different from
moving horizontally.
Swim Speed
With a swim Speed, you can propel yourself through
the water with little impediment. Instead of attempting
Athletics checks to Swim, you automatically succeed and
move up to your swim Speed instead of the listed distance.
Moving up or down is still moving through difficult terrain.
You might still have to attempt checks to Swim in
hazardous conditions or to cross turbulent water. You can
also choose to roll an Athletics check to Swim rather than
accept an automatic success in hopes of getting a critical
success. Your swim Speed grants you a +4 circumstance
bonus to Athletics checks to Swim.
Having a swim Speed doesn’t necessarily mean you
can breathe in water, so you might still have to hold your
breath if you’re underwater to avoid drowning (page 478).
Falling
When you fall more than 5 feet, you take bludgeoning
damage equal to half the distance you fell when you
463
9
PLAYING THE GAME
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Skills
Feats
Equipment
Spells
The Age of
Lost OMENS
Playing the
Game
Game
mastering
Crafting
& Treasure
Appendix
