not going to damage it—unless your fists don’t have the
nonlethal trait, such as if you’re a monk.
Temporary Immunity
Some effects grant you immunity to the same effect for a set
amount of time. If an effect grants you temporary immunity,
repeated applications of that effect don’t affect you for as
long as the temporary immunity lasts. Unless the effect says
it applies only to a certain creature’s ability, it doesn’t matter
who created the effect. For example, the blindness spell
says, “The target is temporarily immune to blindness for
1 minute.” If anyone casts blindness on that creature again
before 1 minute passes, the spell has no effect.
Temporary immunity doesn’t prevent or end ongoing
effects of the source of the temporary immunity. For
instance, if an ability makes you frightened and you then gain
temporary immunity to the ability, you don’t immediately
lose the frightened condition due to the immunity you
just gained—you simply don’t become frightened if you’re
targeted by the ability again before the immunity ends.
Weakness
If you have a weakness to a certain type of damage or
damage from a certain source, that type of damage is extra
effective against you. Whenever you would take that type
of damage, increase the damage you take by the value of
the weakness. For instance, if you are dealt 2d6 fire damage
and have weakness 5 to fire, you take 2d6+5 fire damage.
If you have more than one weakness that would apply
to the same instance of damage, use only the highest
applicable weakness value. This usually happens only
when a monster is weak to both a type of physical damage
and the material a weapon is made of.
Resistance
If you have resistance to a type of damage, each time
you take that type of damage, you reduce the amount of
damage you take by the listed amount (to a minimum of 0
damage). Resistance can specify combinations of damage
types or other traits. For instance, you might encounter
a monster that’s resistant to non-magical bludgeoning
damage, meaning it would take less damage from
bludgeoning attacks that weren’t magical, but would take
normal damage from your +1 mace (since it’s magical)
or a non-magical spear (since it deals piercing damage).
A resistance also might have an exception. For example,
resistance 10 to physical damage (except silver) would
reduce any physical damage by 10 unless that damage
was dealt by a silver weapon.
If you have more than one type of resistance that
would apply to the same instance of damage, use only the
highest applicable resistance value.
It’s possible to have resistance to all damage. When an
effect deals damage of multiple types and you have resistance
to all damage, apply the resistance to each type of damage
separately. If an attack would deal 7 slashing damage and
4 fire damage, resistance 5 to all damage would reduce the
slashing damage to 2 and negate the fire damage entirely.
Step 4: If Damage Remains, Reduce the
Target’s Hit Points
After applying the target’s immunities, resistances, and
weaknesses to the damage, whatever damage is left
reduces the target’s Hit Points on a 1-to-1 basis. More
information about Hit Points can be found in the Hit
Points, Healing, and Dying section on page 459.
Nonlethal Attacks
You can make a nonlethal attack in an effort to knock
someone out instead of killing them (see Knocked Out
and Dying on page 459). Weapons with the nonlethal
trait (including fists) do this automatically. You take a
–2 circumstance penalty to the attack roll when you make
a nonlethal attack using a weapon that doesn’t have the
nonlethal trait. You also take this penalty when making a
lethal attack using a nonlethal weapon.
Conditions
The results of various checks might apply conditions to
you or, less often, an item. Conditions change your state of
being in some way. You might be gripped with fear or made
faster by a spell or magic item. One condition represents
what happens when a creature successfully drains your
blood or life essence, while others represent creatures’
attitudes toward you and how they interact with you.
Conditions are persistent; when you’re affected by a
condition, its effects last until the stated duration ends, the
condition is removed, or terms dictated in the condition
cause it to end. The rules for conditions are summarized
on page 454 and described in full on pages 618–623.
Effects
Anything you do in the game has an effect. Many of
these outcomes are easy to adjudicate during the game.
If you tell the GM that you draw your sword, no check
is needed, and the result is that your character is now
holding a sword. Other times, the specific effect requires
more detailed rules governing how your choice is resolved.
Many spells, magic items, and feats create specific effects,
and your character will be subject to effects caused by
monsters, hazards, the environment, and other characters.
While a check might determine the overall impact or
strength of an effect, a check is not always part of creating
an effect. Casting a fly spell on yourself creates an effect
that allows you to soar through the air, but casting the spell
does not require a check. Conversely, using the Intimidate
skill to Demoralize a foe does require a check, and your
result on that check determines the effect’s outcome.
The following general rules are used to understand and
apply effects.
453
9
PLAYING THE GAME
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Skills
Feats
Equipment
Spells
The Age of
Lost OMENS
Playing the
Game
Game
mastering
Crafting
& Treasure
Appendix
