spell, using your melee attack modifier with flametongue as
your spell attack modifier.
Type flame tongue; Level 13; Price 2,800 gp
Type greater flame tongue; Level 17; Price 13,800 gp
This is a +3 greater striking greater flaming longsword. When
you activate the sword to cast produce flame, the spell is
9th level.
Activate [one-action] command; Frequency once per day; Effect A
10-foot emanation of flame radiates from the greater flame
tongue for 1 minute. All weapon and unarmed attacks by you
and your allies within the area gain the effect of the flaming
property rune.
FROST BRAND
ITEM 16
COLD
 EVOCATION
 MAGICAL
Price 10,000 gp
Usage held in 2 hands; Bulk 2
The blade of this +2 greater striking greater frost greatsword
appears to be nothing but icy shards. The frost brand
automatically extinguishes non-magical fires in a 20-foot
emanation. While wielding it, you gain fire resistance 5.
Activate [two-actions] command, Interact; Effect You swing
the frost brand into the area of an ongoing magical fire,
and the blade attempts to counteract the fire with a
counteract modifier of +27. If it fails, it can’t attempt to
counteract the same fire again.
GLOOM BLADE
ITEM 9
EVOCATION
 MAGICAL
Price 700 gp
Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk L
As black as coal, this blade grows more potent
in darkness. While in bright light, it functions
as a +1 shortsword and doesn’t appear to
radiate a magic aura to detect magic or similar
spells unless the spells are 4th level or higher.
In dim light or darkness, the gloom blade becomes a +2
striking shortsword. Whenever you use the gloom blade
to attack a creature you’re undetected by, you deal 1d6
additional precision damage.
To upgrade the gloom blade’s fundamental runes, start
with the base +1 shortsword, but if you improve it beyond
a +2 striking shortsword, the runes apply in dim light or
darkness as well.
HOLY AVENGER
ITEM 14
UNCOMMON
 DIVINE
 EVOCATION
LAWFUL
 GOOD
Price 4,500 gp
Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk 1
The gleaming holy avenger is the iconic weapon of
powerful paladins. The crossbar of this +2 greater striking
holy cold iron longsword is styled to look like angel wings.
Tradition holds that those who see their reflection in a holy
avenger’s highly polished blade have their faults laid bare. If
you are evil, you are enfeebled 2 while carrying or wielding
this weapon.
Activate [two-actions] command, Interact; Frequency
once per hour; Effect You command the sword
and point it at a creature you can see. The
sword casts detect alignment to detect evil, but
this targets only the selected creature instead
of detecting in an area.
Paladin Wielder If you’re a champion of
the paladin cause, you also gain the following
two benefits.
•	When you critically hit an evil creature with the
holy avenger, the creature is slowed 1 and enfeebled
2 for 1 round.
•	You can activate the sword in the following way.
Activate [one-action] command; Frequency once per day;
Requirements You hit a creature using the
holy avenger on your previous action;
Effect You cast dispel magic at the same
level as your champion focus spells. It must target an
illusion the creature you hit created, a spell affecting
the creature you hit, or an item the creature you hit
wears or carries. The spell or item you attempt to
counteract must be within 120 feet of you.
Craft Requirements You are a champion with the paladin
cause; supply a casting of detect alignment and dispel magic.
The initial raw materials must include 120 gp of cold iron.
LUCK BLADE
ITEM 17+
RARE
 DIVINATION
 FORTUNE
 MAGICAL
Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk L
Luck and good fortune bless the wielder of this +3 greater
striking shortsword. Luck blades are crafted in a variety of
styles, but their hilts or blades always incorporate
symbols of luck, such as clovers, horseshoes,
fish, ladybugs, or other symbols.
Activate [reaction] envision; Frequency once per day;
Trigger You miss on a Strike with the luck blade; Effect
Reroll the triggering attack roll and use the new result. This
is a fortune effect.
Type luck blade; Level 17; Price 15,000 gp
Type wishing luck blade; Level 19; Price 30,000 gp
Some luck blades contain one wish when crafted. You can
cast this spell as an arcane innate spell while wielding the
luck blade, expending the spell. A spellcaster who can cast
wish can place another wish into the blade by spending
8,000 gp and 4 days of downtime. A wishing luck blade can
hold no more than one wish at a time.
Craft Requirements Supply a casting of wish.
MATTOCK OF THE TITANS
ITEM 19
UNCOMMON
 EVOCATION
 MAGICAL
Price 36,000 gp
Usage held in 2 hands; Bulk 16
This 15-foot-long adamantine digging tool is far too big for
even a Large creature to wield, though if you’re a Small or
larger creature, you can wield it while wearing a belt of
giant strength, as though it were appropriately sized for
601
11
Crafting & Treasure
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Skills
Feats
Equipment
Spells
The Age of
Lost OMENS
Playing the
Game
Game
mastering
Crafting
& Treasure
Appendix
