each level, while those for characters who cast spells or
engage in trickery gain fewer.
Each time your character gains a level, they increase their
maximum Hit Points by the amount listed in this entry.
For more about calculating your character’s Constitution
modifier and determining their Hit Points, see page 26.
Initial Proficiencies
When you choose your character’s class, they gain a set of
initial proficiencies. Proficiencies measure your character’s
ability to perform tasks, use abilities, and succeed at checks.
Proficiency ranks range from trained to legendary. For
instance, a character who is trained with a longbow can use it
effectively, while a person who is legendary with the weapon
might be able to split an arrow from 100 paces away!
Each class entry specifies your character’s initial
proficiency rank in Perception, saving throws, attacks,
defenses, and either spells or class DC. You gain the trained
proficiency rank in at least one skill that is important to
your class, and you can choose other skills to gain trained
proficiency in—the exact number depends on your class. If
your class would make you trained in a skill you’re already
trained in (typically due to your background), you can select
another skill to become trained in.
A proficiency rank can unlock various feats and class
features, and it also helps determine the modifier for any
check you roll or DC you calculate related to that statistic.
If your character is trained in Perception, a saving throw,
or another statistic, they gain a proficiency bonus equal
to their level + 2, while if they have expert proficiency,
they gain a proficiency bonus equal to their level + 4. For
more about proficiency ranks, see page 13.
Spellcasting classes grant a proficiency rank for spell
attacks and DCs, which are further detailed in each
class’s entry.
If something isn’t listed in your character’s class entry,
their proficiency rank in that statistic is untrained unless
they gain training from another source. If your character
is untrained in something, you add a proficiency bonus of
+0 when attempting a check or calculating a DC related
to that statistic.
Advancement Table
This table summarizes the feats, skill increases, ability boosts,
and other benefits your character gains as they advance in
level. The first column of the class table indicates a level, and
the second column lists each feature your character receives
when they reach that level. The 1st-level entry includes a
reminder to select your ancestry and background.
Class Features
This section presents all the abilities the class grants
your character. An ability gained at a higher level lists
the required level next to the ability’s name. All classes
include the class features detailed below, and each class
also gets special class features specific to it. Many class
features require you to choose between options. Unless
the specific ability states otherwise, such decisions can’t be
changed without retraining (as explained on page 481).
Class Feats
This section specifies the levels at which your character
gains class feats—special feats that only members of that
class can access. Class feats are granted beginning at 1st
or 2nd level, depending on the class. Specific class feats
are detailed at the end of each class entry.
Skill Feats
This section specifies the levels at which your character
gains feats with the skill trait, called skill feats. Skill
feats can be found in Chapter 5: Feats, beginning on
page 254. At 2nd level and every 2 levels thereafter, most
classes gain a skill feat, though rogues gain them earlier
and more often. Your character must be trained in the
corresponding skill to take a skill feat.
General Feats
This section specifies the levels at which your character
gains general feats. Most classes grant a general feat at
3rd level and every 4 levels thereafter. At each of these
levels, you can select any general feat (including skill
feats) as long as your character qualifies for it. More
information can be found in Chapter 5: Feats (page 254).
Skill Increases
This section specifies the levels at which your character
can increase their proficiency rank in a skill. At 3rd level
and every 2 levels thereafter, most classes grant a skill
increase, though rogues gain them earlier and more often.
Your character can use a skill increase to either become
trained in one skill in which they’re untrained or become
an expert in one skill in which they’re already trained.
If your character is at least 7th level, they can use a skill
increase to become a master of a skill in which they’re
already an expert. If they’re at least 15th level, they can
use an increase to become legendary in a skill of which
they’re already a master.
Ability Boosts
At 5th level and every 5 levels thereafter, your character
boosts four different ability scores. Your character can
use these ability boosts to increase their ability scores
above 18. Boosting an ability score increases it by 1 if
it’s already 18 or above, or by 2 if it starts out below 18.
For more about ability boosts and applying them during
character creation, see page 20.
Ancestry Feats
This section serves as a reminder of the ancestry feats
your character gains at 5th, 9th, 13th, and 17th levels.
Ancestry feats are detailed in each ancestry entry in
Chapter 2, which begins on page 32.
Core Rulebook
68
