You heal an animal’s wounds, restoring 1d8 Hit Points to
the target. The number of actions spent Casting this Spell
determines its effect.
•	 [one-action] somatic The spell has a range of touch.
•	 [two-actions] somatic, verbal The spell has a range of 30 feet
and restores an additional 8 Hit Points to the target.
Heightened (+1) The amount of healing increases by 1d8, and
the additional healing for the 2-action version increases by 8.
IMPALING BRIARS
FOCUS 8
UNCOMMON
CONJURATION
DRUID
PLANT
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal
Area ground within a 100-foot emanation
Duration sustained up to 1 minute
The ground within the area transforms into a mass of
dangerous briars that assault and impede your foes. Each
round when you Sustain the Spell, you can select one of the
following effects to occur in the area.
•	 Ensnare The briars clump around your foes, attempting
to hold them in place. A foe within the area (or flying
at most 20 feet above the area) must attempt a Reflex
save. On a failure, it takes a –10-foot circumstance
penalty to all Speeds for 1 round, and on a critical failure,
it is immobilized for 1 round unless it Escapes.
•	 Impede The briars twist and writhe, making the entire
area difficult terrain.
•	 Wall A wall of thorns appears in the area, lasting for
1 round. The wall is greater difficult terrain instead of
difficult terrain.
In addition, once per round you can direct the briars to impale
any target in the area (or flying up to 20 feet above the area)
that you can see by using a single action, which has the
concentrate and manipulate traits. Make a spell attack roll. On
a success, the target takes 10d6 piercing damage and takes a
–10-foot circumstance penalty to all Speeds for 1 round; on a
critical success, the target is immobilized for 1 round unless
it Escapes.
PRIMAL SUMMONS
FOCUS 6
UNCOMMON
CONJURATION
DRUID
Cast [free-action] verbal
You enhance a summoned creature with the power of the
elements. If your next action is to cast either summon animal
or summon plant or fungus, choose air, earth, fire, or water, and
the creature you summon gains the corresponding abilities.
•	 Air The creature gains a fly Speed of 60 feet.
•	 Earth The creature gains a burrow Speed of 20 feet,
reduces its land Speed by 10 feet (minimum 5 feet), and
gains resistance 5 to physical damage.
•	 Fire The creature’s attacks deal 1d6 extra fire damage,
and it gains resistance 10 to fire and weakness 5 to
cold and water.
•	 Water The creature gains a swim Speed of 60 feet,
can spend 1 action after a melee attack to attempt a
Shove (ignoring multiple attack penalty), and gains
resistance 5 to fire.
STORM LORD
FOCUS 9
UNCOMMON
AIR
DRUID
ELECTRICITY
EVOCATION
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal; Requirements You are outdoors
and aboveground.
Area 100-foot emanation
Duration sustained up to 1 minute
The sky above you darkens in a matter of moments, swirling
with ominous clouds punctuated by flashes of lighting. Each
round when you Sustain the Spell, you can select one of the
following effects to occur in the area.
•	 Calm No additional effect.
•	 Fog Heavy fog rolls in, concealing the area with the
effects of obscuring mist.
•	 Rain Torrential rain falls from the sky, dousing ordinary
flames. Creatures in the area take a –2 circumstance
penalty to Acrobatics and Perception checks.
•	 Wind Powerful winds buffet the area in all directions.
Ranged attacks take a –4 circumstance penalty, and
all flying is against the wind and counts as moving
through difficult terrain.
In addition, once per round you can use a single action, which
has the concentrate and manipulate traits, to call down a bolt
of lightning, striking any target in range that you can see. You
deal 10d6 electricity damage to the target; it must attempt a
basic Reflex save. On a failure, it is also deafened for 1 round.
STORMWIND FLIGHT
FOCUS 4
UNCOMMON
AIR
DRUID
TRANSMUTATION
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal
Duration 1 minute
Powerful winds carry you smoothly through the air, giving you
a fly Speed equal to your Speed. When this spell’s duration
would end, if you’re still flying, you float to the ground, as
feather fall.
Heightened (6th) When you fly using stormwind flight, you
don’t count flying against the wind as difficult terrain.
TEMPEST SURGE
FOCUS 1
UNCOMMON
AIR
DRUID
ELECTRICITY
EVOCATION
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal
Range 30 feet; Targets 1 creature
Saving Throw Reflex
You surround a foe in a swirling storm of violent winds,
roiling clouds, and crackling lightning. The storm deals 1d12
electricity damage. The target must attempt a basic Reflex
save. On a failure, the target also is clumsy 2 for 1 round and
takes 1 persistent electricity damage.
Heightened (+1) The initial damage increases by 1d12, and the
persistent electricity damage on a failure increases by 1.
WILD MORPH
FOCUS 1
UNCOMMON
DRUID
MORPH
TRANSMUTATION
Cast [one-action] to [two-actions] somatic, verbal
Duration 1 minute
You morph your body based on your training, choosing one of
the following effects based on your wild order feats.
Core Rulebook
400
