undead creature. This heals a living target or damages
an undead target by an amount equal to your luminance
reservoir’s value.
When you cast positive luminance, any other positive
luminance spell you already had in effect ends.
Heightened (+1) Both the initial value of your luminance
reservoir and the amount you gain each turn increase by 1.
PRECIOUS METALS
FOCUS 4
UNCOMMON
CLERIC
TRANSMUTATION
Domain wealth
Cast [one-action] material
Range touch; Targets 1 metal weapon, up to 10 pieces of metal
or metal-tipped ammunition, 1 suit of metal armor, or up to
1 bulk of metal material (such as coins)
Duration 1 minute
Your deity blesses base metals to transform them into precious
materials. The target item transforms from its normal metal into
cold iron, copper, gold, iron, silver, or steel (the details for these
metals are found on pages 577–579). An item transmuted in this
way deals damage according to its new material. For example,
a steel sword transmuted to cold iron would deal additional
damage to a creature with a weakness to cold iron.
This change is clearly magical and temporary, so the item’s
monetary value doesn’t change; you couldn’t transmute copper
coins to gold and use those coins to purchase something or as
a cost for a spell.
Heightened (8th) Add adamantine (page 578) and mithral
(page 579) to the list of metals you can transform the item into.
PROTECTOR’S SACRIFICE
FOCUS 1
UNCOMMON
ABJURATION
CLERIC
Domain protection
Cast [reaction] somatic
Trigger An ally within 30 feet takes damage.
Range 30 feet
You protect your ally by suffering in their stead. Reduce the
damage the triggering ally would take by 3. You redirect
this damage to yourself, but your immunities, weaknesses,
resistances and so on do not apply.
You aren’t subject to any conditions or other effects of
whatever damaged your ally (such as poison from a venomous
bite). Your ally is still subject to those effects even if you
redirect all of the triggering damage to yourself.
Heightened (+1) The damage you redirect increases by 3.
PROTECTOR’S SPHERE
FOCUS 4
UNCOMMON
ABJURATION
CLERIC
Domain protection
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal
Area 15-foot emanation
Duration sustained up to 1 minute
A protective aura emanates out from you, safeguarding you
and your allies. You gain resistance 3 to all damage. Your allies
also gain this resistance while they are within the area.
Heightened (+1) The resistance increases by 1.
PULSE OF THE CITY
FOCUS 4
UNCOMMON
CLERIC
DIVINATION
SCRYING
Domain cities
Cast [three-actions] material, somatic, verbal
Range 25 miles
You tap into the zeitgeist of the nearest settlement in range (if
any). You learn the name of the settlement, and you can utter a
special word to learn a brief summary of one significant event
happening in the settlement. Choose one of the following
words, which indicates the type of people involved and type
of event you learn about.
•	 Wardens city guards, barristers, and judges (criminal
reports, busts, changes in routines, legal trials)
•	 Titles nobles and politicians (high society weddings,
elite soirees, political rallies)
•	 Masses common folk and merchants (gathering mobs,
major sales)
When uttering your word, you can exclude events you already
know about, whether you know about them from this spell
or from other experiences. If you cast pulse of the city again
within 24 hours, you can say “echo” instead of another word
to get an update on the event you learned about the last time
you Cast the Spell.
Pulse of the city reveals only publicly available or
observable information. You never learn clandestine
movements or other details people are specifically trying to
hide. The spell is also notoriously bad at overcoming magic
meant to avoid detection; it automatically fails to reveal
information about events involving creatures, places, or
objects affected by spells that could prevent or counteract
pulse of the city (such as nondetection).
Heightened (5th) The range increases to 100 miles.
PUSHING GUST
FOCUS 1
UNCOMMON
AIR
CLERIC
CONJURATION
Domain air
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal
Range 500 feet; Targets 1 creature
Saving Throw Fortitude
Giving the air a push, you buffet the target with a powerful
gust of wind; it must attempt a Fortitude save.
Critical Success The target is unaffected.
Success The target is pushed 5 feet away from you.
Failure The target is pushed 10 feet away from you.
Critical Failure The target is pushed 10 feet away from you
and knocked prone.
READ FATE
FOCUS 1
UNCOMMON
CLERIC
DIVINATION
PREDICTION
Domain fate
Cast 1 minute (material, somatic, verbal)
Range 10 feet; Targets 1 creature other than you
You attempt to learn more about the target’s fate in the short
term, usually within the next day for most prosaic creatures,
or the next hour or less for someone likely to have multiple
rapid experiences, such as someone actively adventuring.
395
7
SPELLS
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Skills
Feats
Equipment
Spells
The Age of
Lost OMENS
Playing the
Game
Game
mastering
Crafting
& Treasure
Appendix
