Consumables
This section includes magic items with the consumable
trait. An item with this trait can be used only once. Unless
stated otherwise, it is destroyed after activation. When
a character creates consumable items, they can make
them in batches of four, as described in the Craft activity.
Consumables includes the following subcategories, with
any special rules appearing at the start of the section.
•	 Ammunition begins on this page.
•	 Oils appear on page 561.
•	 Potions are described on page 562.
•	 Scrolls are listed on page 564.
•	 Talismans begin on page 565.
•	 Other Consumables begins on page 570.
Ammunition
These magic items are ammunition for ranged weapons.
Each item’s stat block includes an Ammunition entry that
lists which type of ammunition it can be Crafted as, or
“any” if it’s not limited to any particular type. All stat
blocks for ammunition omit the Usage and Bulk entries; use
the standard rules in Chapter 6: Equipment for the type of
ammunition to determine reloading times and Bulk.
When using magic ammunition, use your ranged
weapon’s fundamental runes to determine the attack
modifier and damage dice. Don’t add the effects of your
weapon’s property runes unless the ammunition states
otherwise—the ammunition creates its own effects. Magic
ammunition deals damage on a hit normally in addition
to any listed effects unless its description states otherwise.
Regardless of whether an attack with magic ammunition
hits or misses, launching the ammunition consumes its
magic. Magic ammunition is made of normal materials,
not precious materials, unless stated otherwise.
Activated Ammunition
If magic ammunition doesn’t have an Activate entry, it’s
activated automatically when it’s launched. Types of magic
ammunition that have an Activate entry must be activated
with additional actions before being used. Once you activate
the ammunition, you must shoot it before the end of your
turn. Otherwise, it deactivates (but it isn’t consumed) and
you must activate it again before you can use it. If you shoot
the ammunition without activating it first, it functions as
non-magical ammunition and is still consumed.
The action required to activate the ammunition doesn’t
alter how many actions it takes to reload. For example,
you could activate a beacon shot arrow by touching it with
1 action, then draw and shoot the arrow as part of a Strike
as normal. For a beacon shot bolt, you could activate it,
load it into a crossbow, then shoot it, or load it into the
crossbow, then activate it, and then shoot it.
BEACON SHOT
ITEM 3
CONSUMABLE
 EVOCATION
 MAGICAL
Price 10 gp
Ammunition arrow, bolt
Activate [one-action] Interact
The shaft of a beacon shot is studded with tiny flecks of
glimmering gemstones. When an activated beacon shot hits a
target, it embeds itself into that target and spews sparks for
1 minute. If the target is invisible, it becomes merely hidden
to creatures who would otherwise be unable to see it. The
sparks also negate the concealed condition if the target was
otherwise concealed.
A creature can remove the arrow or bolt by using an Interact
basic action and succeeding at a DC 20 Athletics check.
CLIMBING BOLT
ITEM 4
CONJURATION
 CONSUMABLE
 MAGICAL
Price 15 gp
Ammunition bolt
The shaft of this bolt is wrapped with fine twine. When the
bolt strikes a solid surface, the twine unwinds and enlarges
into a 50-foot-long rope, securely fastened to the surface the
bolt struck. The rope can be pulled free with an Interact action
and a successful DC 20 Athletics check.
DISINTEGRATION BOLT
ITEM 15
UNCOMMON
 CONSUMABLE
 EVOCATION
 MAGICAL
Price 1,300 gp
Ammunition bolt
Activate [one-action] Interact
The shaft of this bolt is scorched and blackened, and handling
it coats your fingers with a fine black powder. When an
activated disintegration bolt hits a target, it is subject to a
disintegrate spell requiring a DC 34 Fortitude save. As with
the spell, a critical hit on the attack roll causes the target’s
saving throw outcome to be one degree worse.
Craft Requirements Supply one casting of disintegrate.
EXPLOSIVE AMMUNITION
ITEM 9+
CONSUMABLE
 EVOCATION
 FIRE
 MAGICAL
Ammunition any
Activate [one-action] Interact
This piece of ammunition is coated in gritty black soot. When
activated explosive ammunition hits a target, the missile
explodes in a 10-foot burst, dealing 6d6 fire damage to each
creature in the area (including the target). Each creature must
attempt a DC 25 basic Reflex save.
Type standard; Level 9; Price 130 gp
Type greater; Level 13; Price 520 gp
The damage is 10d6 and the save DC is 30.
GHOST AMMUNITION 
ITEM 14
MAGICAL
 TRANSMUTATION
Ammunition any
Price 900 gp
Ghost ammunition is cool to the touch. This ammunition has
the benefits of the ghost touch property rune and can fly
through any obstacle except those that can block incorporeal
creatures or effects. Though the ammunition penetrates
559
11
Crafting & Treasure
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Skills
Feats
Equipment
Spells
The Age of
Lost OMENS
Playing the
Game
Game
mastering
Crafting
& Treasure
Appendix
