Sorcerer
During combat encounters...
You use spells to injure your enemies, influence their minds, and hamper their
movements. You might be too vulnerable to get into melee combat, or your bloodline
might give you abilities that help you hold your own in a brawl. While your magic is
powerful, to conserve your best spells—or when you’ve used them all up—you also
rely on cantrips.
During social encounters...
Your natural charisma makes you good at interacting with people.
While exploring...
You detect the magic around you, finding treasures and warning your adventuring
group of magical traps. When the group encounters mysteries or problems related to
your bloodline, you try to solve them.
In downtime...
You craft magic items or scribe scrolls. Your bloodline might drive you to research
your ancestry or associate with affiliated people or creatures.
You Might...
•	 Have a strong independent streak, and whether you embrace or reject your
magical heritage, you long to distinguish yourself both as a spellcaster and as an
individual.
•	 View your lineage with fascination, fear, or something in between—anything from
wholehearted acceptance to vehement rejection.
•	 Rely on magic items, such as scrolls and wands, to supplement your limited
selection of spells.
Others Probably...
•	 Marvel at your ability to create magic from thin air and view your abilities with
equal parts admiration and mistrust.
•	 Consider you less dedicated than studious wizards, devoted clerics, and other
practitioners of magic, since power comes to you naturally.
•	 Assume you’re as unpredictable as the magic you bring forth, even if your
personality proves otherwise.
You didn’t choose to become a spellcaster—you were born one. There’s magic
in your blood, whether a divinity touched one of your ancestors, a forebear
communed with a primal creature, or a powerful occult ritual influenced your line.
Self-reflection and study allow you to refine your inherent magical skills and unlock new, more
powerful abilities. The power in your blood carries a risk, however, and you constantly face
the choice of whether you’ll rise to become a master spellcaster or fall into destruction.
Initial Proficiencies
At 1st level, you gain the
listed proficiency ranks in
the following statistics. You
are untrained in anything
not listed unless you gain a
better proficiency rank in some
other way.
Perception
Trained in Perception
Saving Throws
Trained in Fortitude
Trained in Reflex
Expert in Will
Skills
Trained in one or more skills
determined by your bloodline
Trained in a number of
additional skills equal to 2 plus
your Intelligence modifier
Attacks
Trained in simple weapons
Trained in unarmed attacks
Defenses
Untrained in all armor
Trained in unarmored defense
Spells
Trained in spell attack rolls of
your spellcasting tradition, as
indicated by your bloodline
Trained in spell DCs of your
spellcasting tradition, as
indicated by your bloodline
KEY ABILITY
CHARISMA
At 1st level, your class gives you
an ability boost to Charisma.
HIT POINTS
6 + your Constitution modifier
You increase your maximum number of
HP by this number at 1st level and every
level thereafter.
3
CLASSES
191
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Skills
Feats
Equipment
Spells
The Age of
Lost OMENS
Playing the
Game
Game
mastering
Crafting
& Treasure
Appendix
