TRAVELER’S ANY-TOOL 
ITEM 6
MAGICAL
 TRANSMUTATION
Price 200 gp
Usage held in 2 hands; Bulk 1
Before it’s activated, this item appears to be an ash rod capped
with steel on either end.
Activate [two-actions] Interact, envision; Effect You imagine a
specific simple tool, and the any-tool transforms into it.
(Usually, you can choose from a tool listed in Chapter 6). This
transforms the wooden portion into any haft and the metal
caps into spades, hammer heads, or the like, allowing for most
basic tools but nothing more complex. You can return the item
to its rod form with an Interact action.
TRITON’S CONCH 
ITEM 9
MAGICAL
 TRANSMUTATION
Price 640 gp
Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk L
If you put this large opalescent conch shell to your ear,
you can hear the sound of the roaring sea crashing against
the shore.
Activate [one-action] Interact (auditory); Effect You can raise
the conch to your lips and blow into it, letting out a long,
rumbling note. For the next minute, you and all allies who
were within 30 feet of you when you activated the conch
gain a +2 item bonus to Athletics checks to Swim and can
breathe under water.
WONDROUS FIGURINE
ITEM 2+
CONJURATION
 MAGICAL
Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk L
Each one of these statuettes is 1 inch in height, carved from
a specific material and taking the shape of a particular animal
or animals.
Activate [two-actions] command, Interact; Effect You activate
the statue by placing it on solid ground and then speaking
its name, causing the statuette to transform into a living
creature or creatures. In creature form, the figurine has the
minion trait. It can understand your language and it obeys
you to the best of its ability when you use an action to
command it. The specifics of each creature, as well as the
activation’s frequency (if any), appear in its entry below.
If the figurine is slain while in animal form, it reverts to
its statue shape and cannot be activated again until 1 week
has passed. If the figurine is destroyed in statue form, it is
shattered and its magic is lost.
Type golden lions; Level 10; Price 900 gp
This statuette depicts a pair of gold lions, and when activated,
it becomes a pair of adult lions (Pathfinder Bestiary 52). The
lions can be called on only once per day, and they remain
in lion form for no more than 1 hour. If either of the lions
is slain, that lion cannot be summoned again until 1 week
has passed, but this doesn’t prevent you from summoning
the other.
Type jade serpent; Level 7; Price 340 gp
This tiny statue first appears to be a formless lump of jade
until closer inspection reveals it to be a serpentine body curled
into a snug knot. When activated, this figurine becomes a
giant viper (Pathfinder Bestiary 303). The figurine can be used
only once per day, and it can remain in serpent form for no
more than 10 minutes.
Type marble elephant; Level 13; Price 2,700 gp
Finely carved from a solid piece of marble, this gleaming
elephant statuette becomes a fully grown elephant
(Pathfinder Bestiary 154) when activated. The elephant
can be called upon no more than four times per month.
It remains for 24 hours as long as it is being used as a
beast of burden or for transport. If it attempts an attack or
otherwise engages in combat, it reverts to statuette form
after 1d4 rounds.
Type obsidian steed; Level 15 (uncommon); Price 6,000 gp
This sinister-looking black statuette resembles a horse rearing
up on its hind legs. When activated, this figurine becomes a
nightmare (Pathfinder Bestiary 244). It can be called upon
once per week for up to 24 hours, though it won’t use plane
shift or its other abilities on behalf of its rider. Although evil,
it allows itself to be ridden by creatures of any alignment,
although if a good creature mounts it, the rider must attempt
a DC 3 flat check. On a failure, the nightmare uses plane shift
to take the rider to a random location in the Abyss, where
it promptly returns to statue form, stranding its rider in that
nightmarish place.
Type onyx dog; Level 2; Price 34 gp
This simple onyx statue transforms into a guard dog
(Pathfinder Bestiary 102). The dog has a +4 circumstance
bonus to Survival checks to Track, and it has darkvision.
When the dog senses a hidden creature with its scent, that
creature is instead observed and concealed. The onyx dog
can be activated once per week and remains in its form for
up to 6 hours.
Core Rulebook
576
