creature is willing, unconscious, or dead and if it is your
size or smaller. The GM might allow you to climb atop
the corpse or unconscious body of a larger creature in
some situations. A prone creature can’t stand up while
someone else occupies its space, but it can Crawl to a
space where it’s able to stand, or it can attempt to Shove
the other creature out of the way.
Creatures of Different Sizes
In most cases, you can move through the space of a
creature at least three sizes larger than you (Table 9-1).
This means a Medium creature can move through the
space of a Gargantuan creature and a Small creature can
move through the space of a Huge creature. Likewise, a
bigger creature can move through the space of a creature
three sizes smaller than itself or smaller. You still can’t
end your movement in a space occupied by a creature.
Tiny creatures are an exception. They can move through
creatures’ spaces and can even end their movement there.
Objects
Because objects aren’t as mobile as creatures are, they’re
more likely to fill a space. This means you can’t always
move through their spaces like you might move through
a space occupied by a creature. You might be able to
occupy the same square as a statue of your size, but not a
wide column. The GM determines whether you can move
into an object’s square normally, whether special rules
apply, or if you are unable to move into the square at all.
Forced Movement
When an effect forces you to move, or if you start falling, the
distance you move is defined by the effect that moved you,
not by your Speed. Because you’re not acting to move, this
doesn’t trigger reactions that are triggered by movement.
If forced movement would move you into a space you
can’t occupy—because objects are in the way or because you
lack the movement type needed to reach it, for example—
you stop moving in the last space you can occupy. Usually
the creature or effect forcing the movement chooses the path
the victim takes. If you’re pushed or pulled, you can usually
be moved through hazardous terrain, pushed off a ledge,
or the like. Abilities that reposition you in some other way
can’t put you in such dangerous places unless they specify
otherwise. In all cases, the GM makes the final call if there’s
doubt on where forced movement can move a creature.
Terrain
Several types of terrain can complicate your movement by
slowing you down, damaging you, or endangering you.
Difficult Terrain
Difficult terrain is any terrain that impedes your
movement, ranging from particularly rough or unstable
surfaces to thick ground cover and countless other
impediments. Moving into a square of difficult terrain (or
moving 5 feet into or within an area of difficult terrain, if
you’re not using a grid) costs an extra 5 feet of movement.
Moving into a square of greater difficult terrain instead
[diagram: counting movement]
Counting Movement
Lini decides to Stride. She has a Speed
of 20  feet. She moves straight south,
spending 5 feet of her Speed, then
diagonally, spending another 5 feet. Her
next diagonal move, because it’s her
second diagonal of the turn, costs her 10
feet of movement. She’s spent all 20 feet
of her Speed and ends that Stride.
She Seeks, and something catches her
eye to the northeast, so she decides to
move toward it. However, the crumbled
stone is difficult terrain, so each square
costs 5 more feet of Speed. She moves
diagonally, spending 10 feet of movement
since this is an odd-numbered diagonal.
She wants to move northeast again, but
that would cost her 15 feet (10 feet for
an even-numbered diagonal and 5 more
for being difficult terrain). Instead, she
decides to move directly north. This costs
her 10 feet, so she’s used all 20 feet of
her Speed and is out of actions.
5 feet
5 feet
10 feet
10 feet
10 feet
15 feet
Lini
475
9
PLAYING THE GAME
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Skills
Feats
Equipment
Spells
The Age of
Lost OMENS
Playing the
Game
Game
mastering
Crafting
& Treasure
Appendix
