1ST LEVEL
ADAPTED CANTRIP
FEAT 1
HUMAN
Prerequisites spellcasting class feature
Through study of multiple magical traditions, you’ve altered
a spell to suit your spellcasting style. Choose one cantrip
from a magical tradition other than your own. If you have a
spell repertoire or a spellbook, replace one of the cantrips you
know or have in your spellbook with the chosen spell. If you
prepare spells without a spellbook (if you’re a cleric or druid,
for example), one of your cantrips must always be the chosen
spell, and you prepare the rest normally. You can cast this
cantrip as a spell of your class’s tradition.
If you swap or retrain this cantrip later, you can choose its
replacement from the same alternate tradition or a different one.
COOPERATIVE NATURE
FEAT 1
HUMAN
The short human life span lends perspective and has taught
you from a young age to set aside differences and work with
others to achieve greatness. You gain a +4 circumstance
bonus on checks to Aid.
GENERAL TRAINING
FEAT 1
HUMAN
Your adaptability manifests in your mastery of a range of
useful abilities. You gain a 1st-level general feat. You must
meet the feat’s prerequisites, but if you select this feat during
character creation, you can select the feat later in the process
in order to determine which prerequisites you meet.
Special You can select this feat multiple times, choosing a
different feat each time.
HAUGHTY OBSTINACY
FEAT 1
HUMAN
Your powerful ego makes it harder for others to order you
around. If you roll a success on a saving throw against a
mental effect that attempts to directly control your actions,
you critically succeed instead. If a creature rolls a failure on a
check to Coerce you using Intimidation, it gets a critical failure
instead (so it can’t try to Coerce you again for 1 week).
NATURAL AMBITION
FEAT 1
HUMAN
You were raised to be ambitious and always reach for the stars,
leading you to progress quickly in your chosen field. You gain a
1st-level class feat for your class. You must meet the prerequisites,
but you can select the feat later in the character creation process
in order to determine which prerequisites you meet.
NATURAL SKILL
FEAT 1
HUMAN
Your ingenuity allows you to learn a wide variety of skills. You
gain the trained proficiency rank in two skills of your choice.
UNCONVENTIONAL WEAPONRY
FEAT 1
HUMAN
You’ve familiarized yourself with a particular weapon, potentially
from another ancestry or culture. Choose an uncommon simple
or martial weapon with a trait corresponding to an ancestry
(such as dwarf, goblin, or orc) or that is common in another
culture. You gain access to that weapon, and for the purpose of
determining your proficiency, that weapon is a simple weapon.
If you are trained in all martial weapons, you can choose
an uncommon advanced weapon with such a trait. You gain
access to that weapon, and for the purpose of determining your
proficiency, that weapon is a martial weapon.
5TH LEVEL
ADAPTIVE ADEPT
FEAT 5
HUMAN
Prerequisites Adapted Cantrip, can cast 3rd-level spells
You’ve continued adapting your magic to blend your class’s
tradition with your adapted tradition. Choose a cantrip or
1st‑level spell from the same magical tradition as your cantrip
from Adapted Cantrip. You gain that spell, adding it to your spell
repertoire, spellbook, or prepared spells just like the cantrip from
Adapted Spell. You can cast this spell as a spell of your class’s
magical tradition. If you choose a 1st-level spell, you don’t gain
access to the heightened versions of that spell, meaning you can’t
prepare them if you prepare spells and you can’t learn them or
select the spell as a signature spell if you have a spell repertoire.
CLEVER IMPROVISER
FEAT 5
HUMAN
You’ve learned how to handle situations when you’re out of
your depth. You gain the Untrained Improvisation general
feat. In addition, you can attempt skill actions that normally
require you to be trained, even if you are untrained.
9TH LEVEL
COOPERATIVE SOUL
FEAT 9
HUMAN
Prerequisites Cooperative Nature
You have developed a soul-deep bond with your comrades and
maintain an even greater degree of cooperation with them. If you
are at least an expert in the skill you are Aiding, you get a success
on any outcome rolled to Aid other than a critical success.
INCREDIBLE IMPROVISATION [free-action]
FEAT 9
HUMAN
Prerequisites Clever Improviser
Frequency once per day
Trigger You attempt a check using a skill you’re untrained in.
A stroke of brilliance gives you a major advantage with a skill
despite your inexperience. Gain a +4 circumstance bonus to
the triggering skill check.
2
Ancestries & backgrounds
57
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Skills
Feats
Equipment
Spells
The Age of
Lost OMENS
Playing the
Game
Game
mastering
Crafting
& Treasure
Appendix
