to take in its pain. When you Cast this Spell and at the start of
each of your turns, if the target is below maximum Hit Points,
it regains 2 Hit Points (or the difference between its current
and maximum Hit Points, if that’s lower). You lose as many Hit
Points as the target regained.
This is a spiritual transfer, so no effects apply that would
increase the Hit Points the target regains or decrease the Hit
Points you lose. This transfer also ignores any temporary Hit
Points you or the target have. Since this effect doesn’t involve
positive or negative energy, spirit link works even if you or the
target is undead. While the duration persists, you gain no benefit
from regeneration or fast healing. You can Dismiss this spell,
and if you’re ever at 0 Hit Points, spirit link ends automatically.
Heightened (+1) The number of Hit Points transferred each
time increases by 2.
SPIRIT SONG
SPELL 8
FORCE
NECROMANCY
Traditions occult
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal
Area 60-foot cone
Saving Throw basic Fortitude
Your eldritch song sends pulsing waves of ethereal energy
to attack creatures’ spirits in the area, dealing 18d6 force
damage. Because spirit song affects creatures’ spirits, it can
damage a target projecting its consciousness (such as via
project image) or possessing another creature even if the
target’s body is elsewhere. The vibrating waves of spiritual
song penetrate into, but not through, solid barriers, damaging
incorporeal creatures hiding in solid objects in the area but
not passing onward to damage creatures in other rooms.
Possessed creatures aren’t harmed by the song. The song
doesn’t harm creatures that have no spirit, such as constructs.
Heightened (+1) The damage increases by 2d6.
SPIRITUAL EPIDEMIC
SPELL 8
CURSE
NECROMANCY
Traditions divine, occult
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal
Range 120 feet; Targets 1 creature
Saving Throw Will; Duration varies
You curse the target, sapping its spirit and leaving a contagious
trap in its essence. The target must attempt a Will save. Any
creature that casts a divine or occult spell on the target while
it’s affected is targeted by spiritual epidemic and must also
attempt a Will save. The curse continues to spread in this way.
Critical Success The target is unaffected.
Success The target is enfeebled 2 and stupefied 2 for 1 round.
Failure The target is enfeebled 2 and stupefied 2 for 1 minute
and enfeebled 1 and stupefied 1 permanently.
Critical Failure The target is enfeebled 3 and stupefied 3 for 1
minute and enfeebled 2 and stupefied 2 permanently.
Core Rulebook
372
