piercing damage; are in the brawling group; and have the
agile, backstabber, finesse, nonlethal, and unarmed traits.
If you’re flanking a target while in Wolf Stance, your wolf
jaw unarmed attacks also gain the trip trait.
2ND LEVEL
BRAWLING FOCUS
FEAT 2
MONK
You know how to make the most of your attacks when
fighting hand-to-hand. You gain access to the critical
specialization effects of unarmed strikes in the brawling
group and weapons in the brawling group. If you have
Monastic Weaponry, you also gain the critical specialization
effects of all monk weapons in which you are trained.
CRUSHING GRAB
FEAT 2
MONK
Like a powerful constrictor, you crush targets in your
unyielding grasp. When you successfully Grapple a creature,
you can deal bludgeoning damage to that creature equal to
your Strength modifier. You can make this attack nonlethal
with no penalty.
DANCING LEAF
FEAT 2
MONK
You are as light as a leaf whirling in the breeze. When you
Leap or succeed at a High Jump or Long Jump, increase the
distance you jump by 5 feet. When calculating the damage
you take from falling, don’t count any distance fallen while
you are adjacent to a wall.
ELEMENTAL FIST
FEAT 2
MONK
Prerequisites Ki Strike
You call upon the power of the elements, infusing your ki
with elemental energy and allowing your attacks to deal
energy damage. When you cast ki strike, in addition to the
damage types normally available, you can deliver the extra
damage in the form of a gust of storm-tossed wind (dealing
electricity damage and gaining the air trait), a chunk of
stone (dealing bludgeoning damage and gaining the earth
trait), a flickering flame (dealing fire damage), or a crashing
wave of frigid water (dealing cold damage and gaining the
water trait).
STUNNING FIST
FEAT 2
MONK
Prerequisites Flurry of Blows
The focused power of your flurry threatens to overwhelm
your opponent. When you target the same creature with two
Strikes from your Flurry of Blows, you can try to stun the
creature. If either Strike hits and deals damage, the target
must succeed at a Fortitude save against your class DC or
be stunned 1 (or stunned 3 on a critical failure). This is an
incapacitation effect.
4TH LEVEL
DEFLECT ARROW [reaction]
FEAT 4
MONK
Trigger You are the target of a physical ranged attack.
Requirements You’re aware of the attack, are not flat-footed
against it, and have a hand free.
You gain a +4 circumstance bonus to AC against the triggering
attack. If the attack misses, you have deflected it. You cannot
use this feat to deflect unusually massive ranged projectiles
(such as boulders or ballista bolts).
FLURRY OF MANEUVERS
FEAT 4
MONK
Prerequisites expert in Athletics
You flurry is a combination of maneuvers. You can replace one
or both of your attacks during a Flurry of Blows with Grapples,
Shoves, or Trips.
FLYING KICK [two-actions]
FEAT 4
MONK
You launch yourself at a foe. Make a Leap or attempt a High
Jump or Long Jump. At the end of the jump, if you’re adjacent
to a foe, you can immediately Strike that foe with an unarmed
attack, even if the foe is in mid-air. You fall to the ground after
the Strike. If the distance you fall is no more than the height of
your jump, you land upright and take no damage.
GUARDED MOVEMENT
FEAT 4
MONK
Your guard is up, even while moving. You gain a +4 circumstance
bonus to AC against reactions triggered by your movement.
STAND STILL [reaction]
FEAT 4
MONK
Trigger A creature within your reach uses a move action or
leaves a square during a move action it’s using.
You strike out when your foe tries to flee. Make a melee Strike
against the triggering creature. If the attack is a critical hit and
the trigger was a move action, you disrupt that action.
WHOLENESS OF BODY
FEAT 4
MONK
Prerequisites ki spells
You can restore your health by tapping into your ki. You
gain the wholeness of body ki spell (page 402). Increase the
number of Focus Points in your focus pool by 1.
6TH LEVEL
ABUNDANT STEP
FEAT 6
MONK
Prerequisites incredible movement, ki spells
You can teleport yourself a short distance. You gain the
abundant step ki spell (page 401). Increase the number of
Focus Points in your focus pool by 1.
3
Core Rulebook
160
Core Rulebook
160
