Playing the Game
In a Pathfinder game, three modes of play determine the
pacing of each scene in the story. Most of your character’s
time is spent in exploration, uncovering mysteries, solving
problems, and interacting with other characters. The
Age of Lost Omens abounds with danger, however, and
characters often find themselves in an encounter, fighting
savage beasts and terrifying monsters. Finally, time moves
quickly when the characters enjoy downtime, a respite
from the world’s troubles and a chance to rest and train
for future expeditions. Throughout an adventure, game
play moves between these three modes many times, as
needed for the story. The more you play the game, the
more you’ll see that each mode has its own play style, but
moving from mode to mode has few hard boundaries.
During the game, your character will face situations
where the outcome is uncertain. A character might need
to climb a sheer cliff, track down a wounded chimera, or
sneak past a sleeping dragon, all of which are dangerous
tasks with a price for failure. In such cases, the acting
character (or characters) will be asked to attempt a check
to determine whether or not they succeed. A check is
usually made by rolling a single 20-sided die (a d20) and
adding a number based on the relevant ability. In such
cases, rolling high is always good.
Once a check is rolled, the GM compares the result to a
target number called the difficulty class (DC) to determine
the outcome. If the result of the check is equal to or greater
than the DC, the check is successful. If it is less, the check is
a failure. Beating the DC by 10 or more is referred to as a
critical success, which usually grants an especially positive
outcome. Similarly, failing the check by 10 or more is a
critical failure (sometimes called a fumble). This sometimes
results in additional negative effects. You also often score a
critical success by rolling a 20 on the die when attempting
a check (before adding anything). Likewise, rolling a 1 on
the die when attempting a check often results in a critical
failure. Note that not all checks have a special effect on a
critical success or critical failure and such results should
be treated just like an ordinary success or failure instead.
For example, in pursuit of the wounded chimera, your
character might find the path blocked by a fast-moving
river. You decide to swim across, but the GM declares this
a dangerous task and asks you to roll an Athletics skill
check (since swimming is covered by the Athletics skill). On
your character sheet, you see that your character has a +8
modifier for such checks. Rolling the d20, you get an 18, for
a total of 26. The GM compares this to the DC (which was
16) and finds that you got a critical success (since the result
exceeded the DC by 10). Your character swims quickly
across the river and continues the pursuit, drenched but
unharmed. Had you gotten a result less than 26 but equal
to or greater than 16, your character would have made it
halfway across the river. Had your result been less than 16,
your character might have been swept downriver or, worse,
been pulled under the current and begun to drown!
Checks like this are the heart of the game and are rolled
all the time, in every mode of play, to determine the outcome
of tasks. While the roll of the die is critical, the statistic you
add to the roll (called a modifier) often makes the difference
between success and failure. Every character is made up
of many such statistics governing what the character is
good at, each consisting of a relevant ability modifier plus
a proficiency bonus, and sometimes modified further by
other factors, such as bonuses or penalties from gear, spells,
feats, magic items, and other special circumstances.
Proficiency is a simple way of assessing your character’s
general level of training and aptitude for a given task. It
is broken into five different ranks: untrained, trained,
expert, master, and legendary. Each rank grants a different
proficiency bonus. If you’re untrained at a statistic, your
proficiency bonus is +0—you must rely solely on the raw
potential of your ability modifier. If your proficiency rank
for a statistic is trained, expert, master, and legendary, your
bonus equals your character’s level plus another number
based on the rank (2, 4, 6, and 8, respectively). Proficiency
ranks are part of almost every statistic in the game.
Exploration
Most of the time, your character will explore the world,
interact with characters, travel from place to place, and
overcome challenges. This is called exploration. Game play
is relatively free-form during exploration, with players
responding to the narrative whenever they have an idea of
what to do next. Leaving town via horseback, following the
trail of a marauding orc tribe, avoiding the tribe’s scouts, and
convincing a local hunter to help in an upcoming fight are
all examples of things that might occur during exploration.
Throughout this mode of play, the GM asks the players
what their characters are doing as they explore. This is
important in case a conflict arises. If combat breaks out,
the tasks the PCs undertook while exploring might give
them an edge or otherwise inform how the combat begins.
Encounters
In the course of your adventures, there will be times when
a simple skill check is not enough to resolve a challenge—
when fearsome monsters stand in your character’s way
and the only choice is to do battle. In Pathfinder, this is
called an encounter. Encounters usually involve combat,
but they can also be used in situations where timing is
critical, such as during a chase or when dodging hazards.
While exploration is handled in a free-form manner,
encounters are more structured. The players and GM roll
initiative to determine who acts in what order. The encounter
occurs over a number of rounds, each of which is equal to
about 6 seconds of time in the world of the game. During
a round, each participant takes a turn. When it’s your
turn to act, you can use up to three actions. Most simple
things, such as drawing a weapon, moving a short distance,
opening a door, or swinging a sword, use a single action to
perform. There are also activities that use more than a single
Core Rulebook
10
