for Sailing Lore, a city with a vibrant arts scene might
have higher-level tasks for Performance, and so on. If
someone is trying to use a particularly obscure skill, they
might have trouble finding tasks of an ideal level, or any
at all—no one in most settlements is clamoring for the
expertise of someone with Troll Lore.
Once the PC has decided on a particular level of task
from those available, use the DC for that level from
Table 10–5. You might adjust the DC to be more difficult
if there’s inclement weather during an outdoor job, a
rowdy audience for a performance, or the like.
GATHER INFORMATION
To set the DC to Gather Information, use a simple DC
representing the availability of information about the
subject. Adjust the DC upward if the PC Gathering
Information seeks in-depth information. For example,
if a character wants to Gather Information about a
visiting caravan, you might decide that a common person
wouldn’t know much about it, but any merchant or guard
would, so learning basic facts uses the simple DC for
trained proficiency. A caravan leader’s name is superficial,
so discovering it might be DC 15 (the simple trained
DC in Table 10–4). Learning the identity of the leader’s
employers, however, might be DC 20 if the employers are
more obscure.
IDENTIFY MAGIC OR LEARN A SPELL
The DC to Identify Magic or Learn a Spell is usually
the DC listed in Table 10–5 for the spell or item’s level,
adjusted for its rarity. A very strange item or phenomenon
usually uses a higher DC adjustment. For a cursed item
or certain illusory items, use an incredibly hard DC to
increase the chance of misidentification.
RECALL KNOWLEDGE
On most topics, you can use simple DCs for checks to Recall
Knowledge. For a check about a specific creature, trap, or
other subject with a level, use a level-based DC (adjusting
for rarity as needed). You might adjust the difficulty down,
maybe even drastically, if the subject is especially notorious
or famed. Knowing simple tales about an infamous
dragon’s exploits, for example, might be incredibly easy for
the dragon’s level, or even just a simple trained DC.
Alternative Skills
As noted in the action’s description, a character might
attempt to Recall Knowledge using a different skill than
the ones listed as the default options. If the skill is highly
applicable, like using Medicine to identify a medicinal
tonic, you probably don’t need to adjust the DC. If its
relevance is a stretch, adjust the DC upward as described
in Adjusting Difficulty.
[1/2 swim faster; place any-
where]]
GAME MASTERING
505
10
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Skills
Feats
Equipment
Spells
The Age of
Lost OMENS
Playing the
Game
Game
mastering
Crafting
& Treasure
Appendix
