Notating Total Modifiers
When creating your character and adventuring you’ll
record the total modifier for various important checks on
your character sheet. Since many bonuses and penalties
are due to the immediate circumstances, spells, and other
temporary magical effects, you typically won’t apply
them to your notations.
Item bonuses and penalties are often more persistent,
so you will often want to record them ahead of time. For
instance, if you are using a weapon with a +1 weapon
potency rune, you’ll want to add the +1 item bonus to
your notation for your attack rolls with that weapon,
since you will include that bonus every time you attack
with that weapon. But if you have a fine spyglass, you
wouldn’t add its item bonus to your Perception check
notation, since you gain that bonus only if you are using
sight—and the spyglass!—to see long distances.
Special Checks
Some categories of checks follow special rules. The most
notable are flat checks and secret checks.
Flat Checks
When the chance something will happen or fail to happen
is based purely on chance, you’ll attempt a flat check. A flat
check never includes any modifiers, bonuses, or penalties—
you just roll a d20 and compare the result on the die to
the DC. Only abilities that specifically apply to flat checks
can change the checks’ DCs; most such effects affect only
certain types of flat checks.
If more than one flat check would ever cause or prevent
the same thing, just roll once and use the highest DC. In the
rare circumstance that a flat check has a DC of 1 or lower,
skip rolling; you automatically succeed. Conversely, if one
ever has a DC of 21 or higher, you automatically fail.
Secret Checks
Sometimes you as the player shouldn’t know the exact
result and effect of a check. In these situations, the rules
(or the GM) will call for a secret check. The secret trait
appears on anything that uses secret checks. This type of
check uses the same formulas you normally would use for
that check, but is rolled by the GM, who doesn’t reveal the
result. Instead, the GM simply describes the information or
effects determined by the check’s result. If you don’t know
a secret check is happening (for instance, if the GM rolls
a secret Fortitude save against a poison that you failed to
notice), you can’t use any fortune or misfortune abilities
(see the sidebar on page 449) on that check, but if a fortune
or misfortune effect would apply automatically, the GM
applies it to the secret check. If you know that the GM is
attempting a secret check—as often happens with Recall
Knowledge or Seek—you can usually activate fortune or
misfortune abilities for that check. Just tell the GM, and
they’ll apply the ability to the check.
The GM can choose to make any check secret, even if
it’s not usually rolled secretly. Conversely, the GM can
let you roll any check yourself, even if that check would
usually be secret. Some groups find it simpler to have players
roll all secret checks and just try to avoid acting on any
out-of-character knowledge, while others enjoy the mystery.
Damage
In the midst of combat, you attempt checks to determine
if you can damage your foe with weapons, spells, or
alchemical concoctions. On a successful check, you hit
and deal damage. Damage decreases a creature’s Hit
Points on a 1-to-1 basis (so a creature that takes 6 damage
loses 6 Hit Points). The full rules can be found in the Hit
Points, Healing, and Dying section on page 459.
Damage is sometimes given as a fixed amount, but more
often than not you’ll make a damage roll to determine
how much damage you deal. A damage roll typically uses
a number and type of dice determined by the weapon
or unarmed attack used or the spell cast, and it is often
enhanced by various modifiers, bonuses, and penalties.
Like checks, a damage roll—especially a melee weapon
damage roll—is often modified by a number of modifiers,
penalties, and bonuses. When making a damage roll, you
take the following steps, explained in detail below.
1.	Roll the dice indicated by the weapon, unarmed
attack, or spell, and apply the modifiers, bonuses,
and penalties that apply to the result of the roll.
2.	Determine the damage type.
3.	Apply the target’s immunities, weaknesses, and
resistances to the damage.
4.	If any damage remains, reduce the target’s Hit
Points by that amount.
Step 1: Roll The Damage Dice and Apply
Modifiers, Bonuses, and Penalties
Your weapon, unarmed attack, spell, or sometimes even
a magic item determines what type of dice you roll for
damage, and how many. For instance, if you’re using
a normal longsword, you’ll roll 1d8. If you’re casting
a 3rd-level fireball spell, you’ll roll 6d6. Sometimes,
especially in the case of weapons, you’ll apply modifiers,
bonuses, and penalties to the damage.
When you use melee weapons, unarmed attacks, and
thrown ranged weapons, the most common modifier you’ll
add to damage is your Strength ability modifier. Weapons
with the propulsive trait sometimes add half your Strength
modifier. You typically do not add an ability modifier to
spell damage, damage from most ranged weapons, or
damage from alchemical bombs and similar items.
As with checks, you might add circumstance, status,
or item bonuses to your damage rolls, but if you have
multiple bonuses of the same type, you add only the highest
bonus of that type. Again like checks, you may also apply
circumstance, status, item, and untyped penalties to the
Core Rulebook
450
