you Refocused and your bonded item is in your possession, you
recover 2 Focus Points when you Refocus instead of 1.
REFLECT SPELL 
FEAT 14
WIZARD
Prerequisites Counterspell
When you successfully use Counterspell to counteract a spell
that affects targeted creatures or an area, you can turn that spell’s
effect back on its caster. When reflected, the spell affects only
the original caster, even if it’s an area spell or it would normally
affect more than one creature. The original caster can attempt a
save and use other defenses against the reflected spell as normal.
SUPERIOR BOND
FEAT 14
WIZARD
Prerequisites arcane bond
When you draw upon your bonded item, you can leave a bit of
energy within it for later use. You can use Drain Bonded Item
one additional time per day, but only to cast a spell 2 or more
levels lower than your highest-level spell.
16TH LEVEL
EFFORTLESS CONCENTRATION [free-action]
FEAT 16
WIZARD
Trigger Your turn begins.
You maintain a spell with hardly a thought. You immediately
gain the effects of the Sustain a Spell action, allowing you to
extend the duration of one of your active wizard spells.
SPELL TINKER [two-actions]
FEAT 16
CONCENTRATE
WIZARD
You’ve learned to alter choices you make when casting spells
on yourself. After casting a spell on only yourself that offers
several choices of effect (such as resist energy, spell immunity,
or a polymorph spell that offers several potential forms), you
can alter the choice you made when Casting the Spell (for
instance, choosing a different type of damage for resist energy).
However, your tinkering weakens the spell’s integrity, reducing
its remaining duration by half.
You can’t use this feat if the benefits of the spell have already
been used up or if the effects of the first choice would persist in
any way after switching (for instance, if one of the choices was
to create a consumable item you already used, or to heal you),
or if the feat would create an effect more powerful than that
offered by the base spell. The GM is the final arbiter of what
Spell Tinker can be applied to.
18TH LEVEL
INFINITE POSSIBILITIES 
FEAT 18
WIZARD
You’ve found a way to prepare a spell slot that exists in your
mind as many different possibilities at once. Once during your
daily preparations, you can use a spell slot to hold that infinite
potential, rather than using it to prepare a spell. You can use this
spell slot to cast any spell from your spellbook that’s at least
2 levels lower than the slot you designate; the spell acts in all
ways as a spell of 2 levels lower. You don’t have any particular
spell prepared in that slot until you cast it.
REPREPARE SPELL 
FEAT 18
WIZARD
You’ve discovered how to reuse some of your spell slots over
and over. You can spend 10 minutes to prepare a spell that
you already cast today, regaining access to that spell slot. The
spell must be of 4th level or lower and one that does not have
a duration. You can reprepare a spell in this way even if you’ve
already reprepared that spell previously in the same day.
If you have the spell substitution arcane thesis, you can
instead prepare a different spell in an expended slot, as long as
the new spell doesn’t have a duration. Once you’ve reprepared
a spell in that slot even once, you can use your arcane thesis
to substitute only spells without durations into that spell slot.
20TH LEVEL
ARCHWIZARD’S MIGHT 
FEAT 20
WIZARD
Prerequisites archwizard’s spellcraft
You have mastered the greatest secrets of arcane magic. You
gain an additional 10th-level spell slot.
METAMAGIC MASTERY 
FEAT 20
WIZARD
Altering your spells doesn’t take any longer than casting them
normally. You can use metamagic single actions as free actions.
SPELL COMBINATION 
FEAT 20
WIZARD
You can merge spells, producing multiple effects with a single
casting. One slot of each level of spell you can cast, except
2nd level and 1st level, becomes a spell combination slot (this
doesn’t apply to cantrips). When you prepare your spells, you
can fill a combination slot with a combination of two spells.
Each spell in the combination must be 2 or more spell levels
below the slot’s level, and both must target only one creature or
object or have the option to target only one creature or object.
Each spell in the combination must also have the same means of
determining whether it has an effect—both spells must require a
ranged spell attack roll, require the same type of saving throw,
or automatically affect the target.
When you cast a combined spell, it affects only one target,
even if the component spells normally affect more than one. If
any spell in the combination has further restrictions (such as
targeting only living creatures), you must abide by all restrictions.
The combined spell uses the shorter of the component spells’
ranges. Resolve a combined spell as if were a single spell, but
apply the effects of both component spells. For example, if the
spell’s target succeeded at the save against a combined spell, it
would apply the success effect of each spell, and if it critically
failed, it would apply the critical failure effect of both spells.
213
3
CLASSES
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Skills
Feats
Equipment
Spells
The Age of
Lost OMENS
Playing the
Game
Game
mastering
Crafting
& Treasure
Appendix
