their own regional common languages), yet their names are as varied as their beliefs
and appearances.
Ethnicities
 A variety of human ethnic groups—many of which have origins on distant lands—
populates the continents bordering Golarion’s Inner Sea. Human characters can be
any of these ethnicities, regardless of what lands they call home. Information about
Golarion’s human ethnicities appears on page 430 in Chapter 8.
Characters of human ethnicities in the Inner Sea region speak Common (also known
as Taldane), and some ethnicities grant access to an uncommon language.
Half-Elves
A half-elf is born to an elf and a human, or to two half-elves. The life of a half-elf
can be difficult, often marked by a struggle to fit in. Half-elves don’t have their own
homeland on Golarion, nor are populations of half-elves particularly tied to one
another, since they often have very disparate human and elven traditions. Instead,
most half-elves attempt to find acceptance in either human or elven settlements.
Half-elves often appear primarily human, with subtly pointed ears and a taller
stature than most full-blooded humans. Half-elves lack the almost alien eyes of their
elf parents, though they do have a natural presence—and often a striking beauty—
that leads many to become artists or entertainers. Despite this innate appeal, many
half‑elves have difficulty forming lasting bonds with either humans or elves due to the
distance they feel from both peoples as a whole.
Half-elves live longer than other humans, often reaching an age around 150 years.
This causes some of them to fear friendship and romance with humans, knowing
that they’ll likely outlive their companions.
Playing a Half-Elf
You can create a half-elf character by selecting the half-elf heritage at 1st level. This
gives you access to elf and half-elf ancestry feats in addition to human ancestry feats.
You Might...
•	 Keep to yourself and find it difficult to form close bonds with others.
•	 Strongly embrace or reject one side or the other of your parentage.
•	 Identify strongly with and relate to other people with mixed ancestries.
Others Probably...
•	 Find you more attractive than humans and more approachable than elves.
•	 Dismiss your human ethnicity and culture in light of your elven heritage.
•	 Downplay the challenges of being caught between two cultures.
Half-Orcs
A half-orc is the offspring of a human and an orc, or of two half-orcs. Because some
intolerant people see orcs as more akin to monsters than people, they sometimes
hate and fear half-orcs simply due to their lineage. This commonly pushes half-orcs
to the margins of society, where some find work in manual labor or as mercenaries,
and others fall into crime or cruelty. Many who can’t stand the indignities heaped on
them in human society find a home among their orc kin or trek into the wilderness
to live in peace, apart from society’s judgment.
Humans often assume half-orcs are unintelligent or uncivilized, and half-orcs rarely
find acceptance among societies with many such folk. To an orc tribe, a half-orc is
considered smart enough to make a good war leader but weaker physically than other
orcs. Many half-orcs thus end up having low status among orc tribes unless they can
prove their strength.
Hit Points
8
Size
Medium
Speed
25 feet
Ability Boosts
Two free ability boosts
Languages
Common
Additional languages equal to
your Intelligence modifier (if it’s
positive). Choose from the list of
common languages and any other
languages to which you have
access (such as the languages
prevalent in your region).
Traits
Human
Humanoid
OTHER HALVES
By default, half-elves and
half-orcs descend from
humans, but your GM might
allow you to be the offspring
of an elf, orc, or different
ancestry. In these cases, the
GM will let you select the
half-elf or half-orc heritage
as the heritage for this other
ancestry. The most likely
other parent of a half-elf
are gnomes and halflings,
and the most likely parents
of a half-orc are goblins,
halflings, and dwarves.
2
Ancestries & backgrounds
55
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Skills
Feats
Equipment
Spells
The Age of
Lost OMENS
Playing the
Game
Game
mastering
Crafting
& Treasure
Appendix
