CHARACTERS WITH DISABILITIES
A player might want to create a character with a disability,
or their character might end up with a disability over
the course of play. Work with the player to find ways to
respectfully represent the disability. Conditions such as
blinded and deafened aren’t a good fit for a character
who has been living with a disability long-term. Here are
suggestions for rules you might use for PCs with disabilities.
Blindness or Impaired Vision
A blind character can’t detect anything using vision,
critically fails Perception checks requiring sight, is immune
to visual effects, and can’t be blinded or dazzled. You might
give this character the Blind-Fight feat (page 149) for free.
A character with impaired vision might take a –2 to –4
penalty to vision-based Perception checks. Spectacles or
other corrective devices might reduce or remove this.
Deafness or Being Hard of Hearing
A deaf character can’t detect anything using hearing,
critically fails Perception checks that require hearing, and is
immune to auditory effects. They have enough practice to
supply verbal components for casting spells and command
components for activating magic items, but if they perform
an action they’re not accustomed to that involves auditory
elements, they must succeed at a DC 5 flat check or the
action is lost. It’s best to give them the Sign Language feat
for free, and you might give them Read Lips as well (page
266 and 265). You might give one or more other characters
in the group Sign Language for free as well.
A hard-of-hearing character might take a –2 to –4
penalty to Perception checks that are hearing-based.
Corrective devices for hearing are less common than
spectacles are in a typical Pathfinder world.
Missing Limb
Some magic items require certain limbs or other body parts.
It’s fine to allow an alternative form of the item, turning
boots into bracers for a character without legs, for example.
A character with a missing hand or arm might need
to spend 2 actions to Interact with an item that requires
two hands, or otherwise compensate. Using a two-handed
weapon is not possible. A character can acquire a
prosthetic hand or arm to compensate.
Someone missing a foot or leg might take a small
penalty to Speed, but can typically acquire a prosthetic
to compensate. If they have no legs, they might use a
wheelchair, a dependable mount, or levitation or flight magic.
Mental Illness and Chronic Illness
Some disabilities, such as mental illness and chronic
illnesses, are best left to the player to roleplay. Mental illness
is an especially fraught topic, with a history of insensitive
portrayal. Be careful about the intentions of the player and
the impact the presentation might have on other players.
relevant sections of the adventure before a game, and you
don’t have to create everything from scratch. A published
adventure already includes the expected amount of
encounters and treasure, and you can find adventures built
for different character levels to match your group. Reading
a published adventure or running one as your first game
can help you see how adventures are structured, which
makes it easier to write one later if you choose.
Though a published adventure is prewritten, it’s not
set in stone. Changing the details of an adventure to suit
your group isn’t just acceptable, it’s preferred! Use the
backstories and predilections of the player characters to
inform how you change the adventure. This can mean
altering adversaries so they’re linked to the player
characters, changing the setting to a place some of the
player characters are from, or excising particular scenes
if you know they won’t appeal to your players.
CREATING ADVENTURES
Building your own adventure is much more challenging
than using a published one, but it lets you express yourself,
be even more creative, and tailor the game directly to the
players and their characters. Later sections in this chapter
include guidelines for building and running encounters,
placing treasure, and setting appropriately difficult
challenges, all to help you construct your own adventures.
Adventure plotting can start at many different points.
You might begin with a particular antagonist, then
construct an adventure that fits that villain’s theme and
leads the group to them. Alternatively, you could start with
an interesting location for exploration, then populate it
with adversaries and challenges appropriate to the setting.
Locations
Memorable settings that include mysterious and fantastical
locations for players to visit can elicit the players’ curiosity.
Exploring each location should be a treat in itself, not
just a chore the players must complete to get from one
fight to the next. As you create a locale, picture it in your
mind’s eye and write down minor details you can include
as you narrate the game. Describing decorations, natural
landmarks, wildlife, peculiar smells, and even temperature
changes make a place feel more real.
Beyond monsters and loot, your locations can include
environment-based
challenges,
from
environmental
conditions like blizzards to puzzles, traps, or other hazards.
These challenges should suit your adventure’s location:
walls of brambles in a castle ruin overrun with vegetation,
pools of acid in a cursed swamp, or magical traps in the
tomb of a paranoid wizard. Rules for environments appear
on page 512, and those for hazards start on page 520.
Encounters
A robust set of encounters forms the backbone of your
adventure. Encounters often feature combat with other
creatures, but they can also include hazards, or you might
GAME MASTERING
487
10
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Skills
Feats
Equipment
Spells
The Age of
Lost OMENS
Playing the
Game
Game
mastering
Crafting
& Treasure
Appendix
