IRONBLOOD STANCE [one-action]
FEAT 8
MONK
STANCE
Requirements You are unarmored.
You enter the stance of impenetrable iron, refusing to yield to
any blow. You can make iron sweep unarmed attacks. These
deal 1d8 bludgeoning damage; are in the brawling group; and
have the nonlethal, parry, sweep, and unarmed traits.
While in Ironblood Stance, you gain resistance 2 to all
damage. The resistance increases to 3 at 12th level, to 4 at
16th level, and to 5 at 20th level.
MIXED MANEUVER [two-actions]
FEAT 8
MONK
Prerequisite master in Athletics
You combine two different maneuvers together into a single
flowing whole. Choose any two of Grapple, Shove, and Trip.
Attempt both of the attacks you chose against the same or
different creatures, but don’t apply the multiple attack penalty
until after resolving both attacks.
TANGLED FOREST STANCE [one-action]
FEAT 8
MONK
STANCE
Trigger You are unarmored.
You extend your arms like gnarled branches to interfere
with your foes’ movements. You can make lashing branch
unarmed attacks. These deal 1d8 slashing damage; are in the
brawling group; and have the agile, finesse, nonlethal, and
unarmed traits.
While you’re in Tangled Forest Stance and can act, every
enemy in your reach that tries to move away from you must
succeed at a Reflex save, Acrobatics check, or Athletics check
against your class DC or be immobilized for that action. If you
prefer, you can allow the enemy to move.
WALL RUN [one-action]
FEAT 8
MONK
You defy gravity, traversing vertical planes as easily as
the ground. Stride up to your Speed. You must start your
movement on a horizontal surface. During this movement,
you can run up vertical surfaces, like walls, at your full
Speed. If you end the Stride off the ground, you fall after
taking your next action or when your turn ends, whichever
comes first (though you can Grab an Edge, if applicable). If
you have Water Step or a similar ability, Wall Run lets you
run along flimsy vertical surfaces, as well as vertical liquids,
such as a waterfall.
WILD WINDS INITIATE
FEAT 8
MONK
Prerequisites ki spells
You learn a mystical stance that lets you attack from a
distance. You gain the wild winds stance ki spell (page 402).
Increase the number of Focus Points in your focus pool by 1.
While entering the stance is a ki spell, the wind crash Strikes
the stance grants are not, so you can use them as often as you
like while in the stance.
10TH LEVEL
KNOCKBACK STRIKE [two-actions]
FEAT 10
CONCENTRATE
MONK
You focus your strength into a blow powerful enough to push
an enemy away from you. Make an unarmed Strike. If you hit,
attempt an Athletics check to Shove the target. This attack
uses the same multiple attack penalty as your Strike, and
doesn’t count toward your multiple attack penalty.
SLEEPER HOLD [one-action]
FEAT 10
ATTACK
INCAPACITATION
MONK
Requirements You have a creature grabbed or restrained.
You pinch crucial points of your target’s nervous system,
impeding its ability to function. Attempt an Athletics check to
Grapple the creature, with the following success and critical
success effects instead of the usual effects.
Critical Success The target falls unconscious for 1 minute,
though it remains standing and doesn’t drop what it holds.
Success The target is clumsy 1 until the end of its next turn.
WIND JUMP
FEAT 10
MONK
Prerequisites ki spells
You gather the wind beneath you, allowing you to soar as you
jump. You gain the wind jump ki spell (page 402). Increase the
number of Focus Points in your focus pool by 1.
WINDING FLOW [one-action]
FEAT 10
MONK
Frequency once per round
Any journey consists of more than simply reaching your
destination. You use two of the following actions in any order:
Stand, Step, and Stride. You can’t use the same action twice.
12TH LEVEL
DIAMOND SOUL
FEAT 12
MONK
You have fortified your body and mind against eldritch effects.
You gain a +1 status bonus to saving throws against magic.
DISRUPT KI [two-actions]
FEAT 12
MONK
NEGATIVE
Make an unarmed Strike. If it deals damage to a living creature,
you block that creature’s inner life force. The creature takes
2d6 persistent negative damage and is enfeebled 1 until the
persistent damage ends. If you’re 18th level or higher, this
deals 3d6 persistent negative damage instead.
IMPROVED KNOCKBACK
FEAT 12
MONK
Prerequisites master in Athletics
When you successfully Shove a creature, increase both the
distance you can push the creature and the distance you can
move to follow along with the target by 5 feet on a success
163
3
CLASSES
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Skills
Feats
Equipment
Spells
The Age of
Lost OMENS
Playing the
Game
Game
mastering
Crafting
& Treasure
Appendix
