You utter the most powerful arcane word of power. Once
targeted, the target is then temporarily immune for 10
minutes. The effect of the spell depends on the target’s level.
14th or Lower The target dies instantly.
15th If the target has 50 Hit Points or fewer, it dies instantly;
otherwise, it drops to 0 Hit Points and becomes dying 1, or
increases its dying condition by 1 if it’s already dying.
16th or Higher The target takes 50 damage; if this brings the
target to 0 Hit Points, the target dies instantly.
Heightened (10th) The levels at which each outcome applies
increase by 2.
POWER WORD STUN
SPELL 8
UNCOMMON
AUDITORY
ENCHANTMENT
MENTAL
Traditions arcane
Cast [one‑action] verbal
Range 30 feet; Targets 1 creature
Duration varies
You stun the target with an arcane word of power. Once
targeted, the target is then temporarily immune for 10
minutes. The effect of the spell depends on the target’s level.
13th or Lower The target is stunned for 1d6 rounds.
14th–15th The target is stunned for 1 round.
16th or Higher The target is stunned 1.
Heightened (+1) The levels at which each outcome applies
increase by 2.
PRESTIDIGITATION
CANTRIP 1
CANTRIP
EVOCATION
Traditions arcane, divine, occult, primal
Cast [two‑actions] somatic, verbal
Range 10 feet; Targets 1 object (cook, lift, or tidy only)
Duration sustained
The simplest magic does your bidding. You can perform simple
magical effects for as long as you Sustain the Spell. Each time
you Sustain the Spell, you can choose one of four options.
•	 Cook Cool, warm, or flavor 1 pound of nonliving material.
•	 Lift Slowly lift an unattended object of light Bulk or
less 1 foot off the ground.
•	 Make Create a temporary object of negligible Bulk,
made of congealed magical substance. The object
looks crude and artificial and is extremely fragile—it
can’t be used as a tool, weapon, or spell component.
•	 Tidy Color, clean, or soil an object of light Bulk or less.
You can affect an object of 1 Bulk with 10 rounds of
concentration, and a larger object a 1 minute per Bulk.
Prestidigitation can’t deal damage or cause adverse
conditions. Any actual change to an object (beyond what is
noted above) persists only as long as you Sustain the Spell.
PRIMAL HERD
SPELL 10
POLYMORPH
TRANSMUTATION
Traditions primal
Cast [two‑actions] somatic, verbal
Range 30 feet; Targets you and up to 5 willing targets
Duration 1 minute
Summoning the power of the natural world, you transform
the targets into a herd of mammoths, and they each assume
a Huge battle form. Each target must have enough space to
expand into or the spell fails for that target. Each target gains
the animal trait. Each target can Dismiss the spell’s effects on
themself. Each target gains the following while transformed:
•	 AC = 22 + the target’s level. Ignore any armor check
penalty and Speed reduction.
•	 20 temporary Hit Points.
•	 Speed 40 feet.
•	 Low-light vision.
•	 The following unarmed melee attacks, which are the
only attacks the target can use. They’re trained with
them. When attacking with these attacks, the target
uses their attack modifier with the proficiency and
item bonuses of their most favorable weapon or
unarmed Strike, and the damage is listed for each
attack. These attacks are Strength based (for the
purpose of the enfeebled condition, for example). If the
target’s unarmed attack modifier is higher, they can
use it instead. Melee [one‑action] tusk (reach 15 feet), Damage
4d8+19 piercing; Melee [one‑action] trunk (agile, reach 15 feet),
Damage 4d6+16 bludgeoning; Melee [one‑action] foot (agile,
reach 15 feet), Damage 4d6+13 bludgeoning.
•	 Athletics modifier of +30, unless the target’s own
modifier is higher.
•	 Trample [three‑actions] You move up to twice your Speed and
move through the space of Large or smaller creatures,
trampling each creature whose space you enter. A
trampled creature takes damage from its foot Strike
based on a basic Reflex save (DC = 19 + the target’s level).
PRIMAL PHENOMENON
SPELL 10
DIVINATION
Traditions primal
Cast [three‑actions] material, somatic, verbal
You request a direct intercession from the natural world.
Nature always refuses unnatural requests and might grant a
different request (potentially more powerful or better fitting its
character) than the one you asked for. A primal phenomenon
spell can do any of the following things.
•	 Duplicate any primal spell of 9th level or lower.
•	 Duplicate any non-primal spell of 7th level or lower.
•	 Produce any effect whose power level is in line with
the above effects.
•	 Reverse certain effects that refer to the wish spell.
At the GM’s discretion, you can try to use primal phenomenon
to produce greater effects than these, but doing so may be
dangerous, or the spell may have only a partial effect.
PRISMATIC SPHERE
SPELL 9
ABJURATION
LIGHT
Traditions arcane, occult
Cast [two‑actions] somatic, verbal
Range 10 feet
Duration 1 hour
359
7
SPELLS
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Skills
Feats
Equipment
Spells
The Age of
Lost OMENS
Playing the
Game
Game
mastering
Crafting
& Treasure
Appendix
