Sewn from several long strips of luxurious brown and black
silk, this cloak grants you a +2 item bonus to Stealth checks
as well as to Acrobatics checks to Maneuver in Flight. You can
also use your feet to hang from any surface that can support
your weight, without requiring any check, though you still
must attempt Athletics checks to Climb in order to move
around while inverted.
Activate [two-actions] command, Interact; Frequency once per day;
Effect You can either transform the cloak into bat-like wings
that grant you a fly Speed of 30 feet for 10 minutes, or have
the cloak turn you into a bat by casting a 4th-level pest form
spell on you.
Type cloak of the bat; Level 10; Price 950 gp
Type greater cloak of the bat; Level 17; Price 13,000 gp
The item bonus is +3, and you can activate the cloak any
number of times per day.
COYOTE CLOAK 
ITEM 3+
DIVINATION
 INVESTED
 MAGICAL
Usage worn cloak; Bulk —
This dusty coat is made of mangy brown-and-gray coyote fur.
You gain a +1 item bonus to Survival checks. If you critically
succeed at your Survival check to Subsist, you can feed twice
as many additional creatures.
Type coyote cloak; Level 3; Price 60 gp
Type greater coyote cloak; Level 9; Price 650 gp
The cloak grants a +2 item bonus, and if you critically succeed
at a Survival check to Subsist, you can feed four times as
many additional creatures.
CRAFTER’S EYEPIECE 
ITEM 3+
INVESTED
 MAGICAL
 TRANSMUTATION
Usage worn eyepiece; Bulk —
This rugged metal eyepiece etched with square patterns
is designed to be worn over a single eye. Twisting the lens
reveals a faint three-dimensional outline of an item you
plan to build or repair, with helpful labels on the component
parts. While worn, this eyepiece gives you a +1 item bonus to
Crafting checks. When you Repair an item, increase the Hit
Points restored by 15 per proficiency rank instead of 10.
Type crafter’s eyepiece; Level 3; Price 60 gp
Type greater crafter’s eyepiece; Level 11; Price 1,200 gp
The eyepiece grants a +2 item bonus and can be activated.
Activate 1 minute (Interact); Frequency once per day; Effect
You calibrate the eyepiece to have it cast a 5th-level creation
spell over the course of 1 minute to construct a temporary item.
DANCING SCARF
ITEM 3+
ILLUSION
 INVESTED
 MAGICAL
 VISUAL
Usage worn belt; Bulk —
This long and billowing scarf is typically woven of silk or sheer
fabric and adorned with bells or other jangling bits of shiny
metal. It grants a +1 item bonus to Performance checks to dance.
Activate [one-action] Interact; Requirements On your most recent
action, you succeeded at a Performance check to dance; Effect
You become concealed until the beginning of your next turn.
Type dancing scarf; Level 3; Price 60 gp
Type greater dancing scarf; Level 9; Price 650 gp
The scarf grants a +2 bonus. When you activate the scarf, you
can also Stride up to half your Speed or Step.
DAREDEVIL BOOTS
ITEM 10+
ABJURATION
 INVESTED
 MAGICAL
Usage worn shoes; Bulk L
These brightly colored, soft-soled boots motivate you to perform
risky stunts and grant you the agility to succeed. The boots grant
you a +2 item bonus to Acrobatics checks and a +1 circumstance
bonus to checks to Tumble Through an enemy’s space.
The boots can grip solid surfaces and help you avoid a fall,
allowing you to use the Grab an Edge reaction even if your
hands aren’t free. You treat falls as 10 feet shorter or, if you
have the Cat Fall feat, treat your proficiency rank in Acrobatics
as one degree better to determine the benefits of that feat. If
you have Cat Fall and are already legendary in Acrobatics, you
can choose the speed of your fall, from 60 feet per round up
to normal falling speed.
Type daredevil boots; Level 10; Price 900 gp
Type greater daredevil boots; Level 17; Price 14,000 gp
The bonus to Acrobatics checks is +3, and the bonus to Tumble
Through is +2. The boots can be activated.
Activate [two-actions] command; Frequency once per day; Effect The
boots cast freedom of movement on you.
DEMON MASK
ITEM 4+
ENCHANTMENT
 INVESTED
 MAGICAL
Usage worn mask; Bulk L
This terrifying mask is crafted in the visage of a leering demon
and grants a +1 item bonus to Intimidation checks.
Activate [two-actions] Interact; Frequency once per day; Effect The
mask casts a fear spell with a DC of 20.
Type demon mask; Level 4; Price 85 gp
Type greater demon mask; Level 10; Price 900 gp
The mask grants a +2 item bonus. It casts 3rd-level fear with
a DC of 29.
DIPLOMAT’S BADGE
ITEM 5
ENCHANTMENT
 INVESTED
 MAGICAL
Price 125 gp
Usage worn; Bulk —
When displayed prominently, this brass badge makes
creatures find you more agreeable. You gain a +1 item bonus
to Diplomacy checks.
Activate [one-action] Recall Knowledge; Frequency once per day;
Effect Attempt a DC 20 check to Recall Knowledge about people
of a human ethnicity, a non-human ancestry, or some other
type of creature. (The GM determines what your options are.) If
you succeed, the badge’s bonus increases to +2 for Diplomacy
checks with creatures of that group for the rest of the day.
DOUBLING RINGS
ITEM 3+
EVOCATION
 INVESTED
 MAGICAL
Usage worn; Bulk —
609
11
Crafting & Treasure
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Skills
Feats
Equipment
Spells
The Age of
Lost OMENS
Playing the
Game
Game
mastering
Crafting
& Treasure
Appendix
