of gnomes, as other people, bewildered by gnomish political decisions, choose to
move elsewhere. Gnomes have little culture that they would consider entirely their
own. No gnome kingdoms or nations exist on the surface of Golarion, and gnomes
wouldn’t know what to do with such a state if they had one.
By necessity, few gnomes marry for life, instead allowing relationships to run their
course before amicably moving on, the better to stave off the Bleaching with new
experiences. Though gnome families tend to be small, many gnome communities
raise children communally, with fluid family boundaries. As adults depart the
settlement, unrelated adolescents sometimes tag along, creating adopted families to
journey together.
Alignment and Religion
Though gnomes are impulsive tricksters with inscrutable motives and confusing
methods, many at least attempt to make the world a better place. They are prone to
fits of powerful emotion, and they are often good but rarely lawful. Gnomes most
commonly worship deities that value individuality and nature, such as Cayden
Cailean, Desna, Gozreh, and Shelyn.
Names
Gnome names can get quite complex and polysyllabic. They have little interest in
familial names, and most children receive their names purely on a parent’s whim.
Gnomes rarely concern themselves with how easy their names are to pronounce,
and they often go by shorter nicknames. Some even collect and chronicle
these nicknames. Among gnomes, the shorter the name, the more feminine it’s
considered to be.
Sample Names
Abroshtor, Bastargre, Besh, Fijit, Halungalom, Krolmnite, Neji, Majet, Pai,
Poshment, Queck, Trig, Zarzuket, Zatqualmie
Gnome Heritages
A diverse collection of oddballs, gnomes have all sorts of peculiar strains among
their bloodlines. Choose one of the following gnome heritages at 1st level.
Chameleon Gnome
The color of your hair and skin is mutable, possibly due to latent magic. You can
slowly change the vibrancy and the exact color, and the coloration can be different
across your body, allowing you to create patterns or other colorful designs. It takes
a single action for minor localized shifts and up to an hour for dramatic shifts
throughout your body. While you’re asleep, the colors shift on their own in tune
with your dreams, giving you an unusual coloration each morning. When you’re in
an area where your coloration is roughly similar to the environment (for instance,
forest green in a forest), you can use the single action to make minor localized
shifts designed to help you blend into your surroundings. This grants you a +2
circumstance bonus to Stealth checks until your surroundings shift in coloration
or pattern.
Fey-touched Gnome
The blood of the fey is so strong within you that you’re truly one of them. You gain
the fey trait, in addition to the gnome and humanoid traits. Choose one cantrip
from the primal spell list (page 314). You can cast this spell as a primal innate spell
at will. A cantrip is heightened to a spell level equal to half your level rounded up.
You can change this cantrip to a different one from the same list once per day by
meditating to realign yourself with the First World; this is a 10-minute activity that
has the concentrate trait.
2
Ancestries & backgrounds
43
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Skills
Feats
Equipment
Spells
The Age of
Lost OMENS
Playing the
Game
Game
mastering
Crafting
& Treasure
Appendix
Hit Points
8
Size
Small
Speed
25 feet
Ability Boosts
Constitution
Charisma
Free
Ability Flaw
Strength
Languages
Common
Gnomish
Sylvan
Additional languages equal to
your Intelligence modifier (if it’s
positive). Choose from Draconic,
Dwarven, Elven, Goblin, Jotun,
Orcish, and any other languages
to which you have access (such
as the languages prevalent in
your region).
Traits
Gnome
Humanoid
Low-Light Vision
You can see in dim light as
though it were bright light,
and you ignore the concealed
condition due to dim light.
