Inside, the demiplane appears to be a mansion featuring
a magnificent foyer and numerous opulent chambers. The
mansion can have any floor plan you imagine as you Cast
the Spell, provided it fits within a space 40 feet wide, 40 feet
deep, and 30 feet tall. While the entrance to the mansion is
closed, effects from outside the mansion fail to penetrate it,
and vice versa, except for plane shift, which can be used to
enter the mansion. You can use scrying magic and similar
effects to observe the outside only if they’re capable of
crossing planes.
A staff of up to 24 servants attends to anyone within the
mansion. These are like the servant created by the unseen
servant spell, though they’re visible, with an appearance
you determine during casting. The mansion is stocked with
enough food to serve a nine-course banquet to 150 people.
MARINER’S CURSE
SPELL 5
ATTACK
CURSE
NECROMANCY
Traditions arcane, occult, primal
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal
Range touch; Targets 1 creature
Saving Throw Will
You afflict the target with the curse of the roiling, unforgiving
sea. The target must attempt a Will save.
Critical Success The target is unaffected.
Success The target becomes sickened 1. Reducing its sickened
condition to 0 ends the curse.
Failure The target becomes sickened 1 and can’t reduce
its sickened condition below 1 while the curse remains.
The curse can be lifted by remove curse or similar magic.
Whenever the target is sickened and on the water at least a
mile from shore, it is also slowed 1.
Critical Failure As failure, but the target becomes sickened 2.
MASK OF TERROR
SPELL 7
EMOTION
FEAR
ILLUSION
MENTAL
VISUAL
Traditions arcane, occult, primal
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal
Range 30 feet; Targets 1 creature
Duration 1 minute
The target appears to be a gruesome and terrifying creature.
The effect is unique to each observer, so a human viewing the
target might see a demon with bloody fangs, but a demon
observing the target might see a glowing angelic visage.
When any creature attempts a hostile action against the
target, the creature must attempt a Will save. It is then
temporarily immune until the end of its next turn.
Success The creature is unaffected.
Failure The creature becomes frightened 2 before using
its action.
Critical Failure The creature becomes frightened 2, and its
action fails and is wasted.
Heightened (8th) You can target up to 5 creatures. If a creature
uses a hostile action or reaction that affects multiple targets
simultaneously, it needs to attempt only one save against
mask of terror.
MASSACRE
SPELL 9
DEATH
NECROMANCY
NEGATIVE
Traditions arcane, divine, primal
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal
Area 60-foot line
Saving Throw Fortitude
You unleash a wave of necromantic energy to snuff out the
life force of those in its path. Each creature of 17th level
or lower in the line must attempt a Fortitude save. If the
damage from massacre reduces a creature to 0 Hit Points,
that creature dies instantly. If massacre doesn’t kill even a
single creature, the negative energy violently explodes back
toward you, dealing an additional 30 negative damage to
every creature in the line (even those above 17th level) and
30 negative damage to you.
Critical Success The creature is unaffected.
Success The creature takes 9d6 negative damage.
Failure The creature takes 100 negative damage.
Critical Failure The creature dies.
Heightened (10th) The spell can affect creatures up to 19th
level. Increase the damage to 10d6 on a success, and to 115
on a failure.
MAZE
SPELL 8
CONJURATION
EXTRADIMENSIONAL
TELEPORTATION
Traditions arcane, occult
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal
Range 30 feet; Targets 1 creature
Duration sustained
You transport the target into an extradimensional maze of
eldritch origin and trap it there. Once each turn, the target
can spend 1 action to attempt a Survival check or Perception
check against your spell DC to escape the maze. The possible
outcomes are as follows.
Critical Success The target escapes and the spell ends.
Success The target is on the right path to the exit. If the target
was already on the right path, it escapes the maze and the
spell ends.
Failure The target makes no progress toward escape.
Critical Failure The target makes no progress toward escape,
and if it was on the right path, it no longer is.
Teleportation magic doesn’t help the creature escape unless
the magic can transport across planes, such as plane shift.
When the spell ends, either because the target escaped or the
duration ran out, the target returns to the space it occupied
when it was banished, or to the nearest space if the original
is now filled.
MELD INTO STONE
SPELL 3
EARTH
TRANSMUTATION
Traditions arcane, primal
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal
Duration 10 minutes
You merge with an adjacent block of stone with enough
volume to fit you and your worn and held possessions. You
must touch the stone when you Cast the Spell. You can hear,
Core Rulebook
350
