Wars several decades ago, House Thrune did little to
provide  aid. As the repercussions of the Whispering
Tyrant’s return to power send ripples of nervous dread
through the land, Isger’s people grow fearful that they
lack not only their own political strength but also that of
their supposed protector, and as a result, Isger is one of
the lands in the Inner Sea region most in need of heroes.
Recently, several uprisings within Cheliax have further
tested the nation’s resolve. After a devastating nautical
loss in the Shackles resulted in Vidrian’s independence, a
new Iomedaean rebellion called the Glorious Reclamation
threatened Cheliax from within. House Thrune and the
Asmodean church defeated the Glorious Reclamation, but
at a price—a simultaneous rebellion was successful, with
a group of rebels called the Silver Ravens negotiating the
successful secession of the new nation of Ravounel.
North of Cheliax, the shadowy nation of Nidal remains
the diabolic nation’s only real ally. A theocracy ruled by
the church of Zon-Kuthon, Nidal is the oldest nation on
Avistan, for its people turned to the Midnight Lord for
protection during the Age of Darkness after Earthfall.
Today, pain and dread are comforts to the citizens of
Nidal, and millennia of rule under a church that revels in
pain have left them inured to agony and welcoming of loss.
At its height, the empire of Cheliax had holdings that
reached from Varisia to Garund and east all the way to
Galt. Aroden was prophesized to return to the world
of mortals to usher in a new Age of Glory, and those
prophecies predicted the Chelish city of Westcrown
would be the point of his arrival. Instead, his death
ignited a civil war that lasted for decades. When the
Thrice-Damned House of Thrune emerged as victor,
Cheliax had forever changed. Under House Thrune’s
rule, Cheliax transformed into a nation that viewed Hell
as a blueprint for government. The church of Asmodeus
became Cheliax’s official state religion, and diabolism
its most powerful philosophy. The devil had come home
to rule, and while the nation’s politicians and leaders
claimed that they maintained control of their fate­—and
House Thrune had merely formed an alliance with Hell to
maintain its power and keep order—the nation’s internal
and external enemies know better.
Many of Cheliax’s outlying provinces—such as
Andoran, Galt, and Vidrian—revolted and became their
own nations. The nation of Isger remains, at least on paper,
a thrall. Cheliax values Isger for its important position as
a trade route to the Lake Encarthan region, but when
Isger was wracked by the violence of the Goblinblood
Old Cheliax
THE AGE OF LOST OMENS
427
8
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Skills
Feats
Equipment
Spells
The Age of
Lost OMENS
Playing the
Game
Game
mastering
Crafting
& Treasure
Appendix
