Inner Sphere
The core of the multiverse is the Inner Sphere. Here, the vast expanse of the Material
Plane and its countless worlds can be found. The Elemental Planes surround the
Material Plane like layered shells, with the Plane of Air on the inside, transitioning
to the Plane of Water, then to the Plane of Earth, and finally to the Plane of Fire,
in something of a reversal of order in which these elements most often appear on
habitable planets. The planes of Positive and Negative Energy are also within the
Inner Sphere, their opposing nodes of life and death, creation and destruction, light
and dark forming the start and the end of all existence.
Outer Sphere
The scope of reality within the Outer Sphere is difficult to grasp. Here the gods dwell
and the souls of the dead gather to be judged by the goddess of the dead, Pharasma, atop
the spire in the realm that is her Boneyard. Anything is possible in the Outer Sphere,
and its realms are as much manifestations of philosophies and belief as anything else.
From the towering mountain of Heaven to the endless gulfs of the demon-held Abyss,
be it the agonizing pit of Hell or the boundless wonders of Elysium, all of reality is
represented within the Outer Sphere. Over time this reality erodes away and is recycled
back into the raw material of life within the Positive Energy Plane.
other planes and Dimensions
Some planes exist in the same physical or metaphysical space as others, overlapping
these other planes like overlays of reality. They include the ghost world of the
Ethereal Plane, which overlays the Inner Sphere; the dizzying vastness of the Astral
Plane, which overlays almost all reality and fills the seemingly endless gulf between
the Inner Sphere and the Outer Sphere; and the fey-haunted First World and the
sinister Shadow Plane, which each overlay the Material Plane. Stranger reaches of
the Great Beyond exist as well; some, such as the Dreamlands, are visited often (if
accidentally), while others, such as the enigmatic Dimension of Time, are visited
rarely, if ever. In all cases these dimensions cannot be accessed by normal means, and
each has their own method of entry and exit.
The Inner Sea Region
Although infinite opportunities for adventure await on other continents, worlds, and
planes, the Inner Sea region is the focus of the Pathfinder campaign setting. With
dozens of nations, empires, frontiers, and wildlands, this region presents a huge range
of opportunities for heroism and villainy, exploration and adventure!
The following pages break down the Inner Sea region into 10 separate regions, each
with its own themes. Only a brief overview of each region is presented here—enough
to establish the setting and whet the imagination. If you’re interested in exploring
Golarion and the Inner Sea region more, see the Pathfinder World Guide, Pathfinder
Adventures, and Pathfinder Adventure Path volumes. Adventure paths present not only
in-depth material about the region, but also full-length campaigns whose adventures
bring a brand-new group of heroes all the way to the height of power!
The year in the Inner Sea region is 4719 Absalom Reckoning (ar). As the calendar
advances in the real world, time also progresses for Golarion. The Pathfinder Core
Rulebook was first published in the year 2019, with the Inner Sea region’s corresponding
year ending in the same two final digits. Golarion’s history is expansive, but two of the
most significant events to shape the world occurred in –5293 ar, when Earthfall nearly
brought an end to the world, and in 4606 ar, when Aroden, the god of humanity, died,
and prophecies the world over began to fail, beginning the Age of Lost Omens.
The map on page 416 depicts the Inner Sea region, further subdivided into the 10
subregions explored on the following pages. The borders of these regions are thematic
rather than political. For an in-depth exploration of the Inner Sea region and its dozens
of nations and wildlands, see the Pathfinder Lost Omens World Guide.
TIME
Like Earth, Golarion spins on
its axis once roughly every 24
hours. A week has 7 days and
a year has 52 weeks. To keep
the calendar synchronized
with the astronomical year, an
extra leap day is tacked on to
the second month of the year
every 4 years.
MONTHS AND DAYS
The names of the months of
the year are as follows in the
Inner Sea region:
Abadius ( January)
Calistril (February)
Pharast (March)
Gozran (April)
Desnus (May)
Sarenith ( June)
Erastus ( July)
Arodus (August)
Rova (September)
Lamashan (October)
Neth (November)
Kuthona (December)
The names of the days are as
follows:
Moonday (Monday)
Toilday (Tuesday)
Wealday (Wednesday)
Oathday (Thursday)
Fireday (Friday)
Starday (Saturday)
Sunday (Sunday)
THE AGE OF LOST OMENS
419
8
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Skills
Feats
Equipment
Spells
The Age of
Lost OMENS
Playing the
Game
Game
mastering
Crafting
& Treasure
Appendix
