Example of Play
The following example is presented to give you a better idea
of how the game of Pathfinder is played. In this adventure,
Erik is the GM. Lyz is playing Valeros, a daring human
fighter, James is playing Merisiel, a deadly elven rogue, and
Judy is taking on the role of Kyra, a fiery human cleric of
Sarenrae. The group has just defeated a horde of undead
and is making its way into an ancient mausoleum.
Erik:
The entrance to the crypt stands before you,
a set of crumbling stairs leading down into
darkness. A terrible smell issues forth from the
doorway—the stench of old, rotted flesh.
Lyz:
I’m not afraid of a foul stink! I draw my sword
and ready my shield.
Judy:
The light of Sarenrae will guide us. I cast my
light spell on my religious symbol.
Erik:
All right, a glowing radiance spills forth,
illuminating the stairs. They appear to go
down only about 10 feet before opening up
into a chamber. Puddles of stagnant water fill
the cracks between uneven stone tiles.
James:
I should go first to make sure it’s safe. I’m going
to draw my rapier and carefully go down the
stairs, looking for traps as I go.
Erik:
Sure, but looking for traps is a secret check, so I’ll
roll for you. What’s your Perception modifier?
James:
I have a +5.
Erik rolls a d20 behind his GM screen, hidden from the
players’ view, and gets a 17 on the die for a total of 22,
more than enough to find the trip wire on the third step.
Erik:
Your caution pays off! You spot a thin wire
located at ankle height just above the third stair.
James:
I point it out to the others and head down.
Lyz:
I follow right behind Merisiel, avoiding the wire
but otherwise keeping an eye out for danger.
Judy:
Me too.
Erik:
Okay! You make it down the stairs to find
yourselves in a crypt. Ancient wood coffins are
arranged around the room, covered in cobwebs
and dust. Directly ahead, on a raised dais, is
a stone casket adorned with wicked-looking
symbols. You can tell that it was once wrapped
in iron chains, but now twisted links are scattered
around the room, along with chunks of what
must have been the casket’s lid. From the damage,
it looks like it was shattered from within!
Judy:
Sarenrae protect us. I draw my blade and
advance—I want  a better look at those symbols.
Lyz:
I’ll keep pace with her. I don’t like the look of this.
James:
I think I’ll stay back here and hide behind one
of the coffins.
Erik:
Merisiel takes cover while the two of you
advance. As you draw near, the stench of rot
grows stronger until it’s almost overpowering.
Suddenly you see the source of the horrid odor.
Rising up out of the casket is a nightmarish
dead thing. It might have once been a human,
but it’s hard to tell from its withered body. Its
flesh is the color of a new bruise, pulled so
tight across its bones that it has split in places.
It’s hairless, with pointed ears, but worst of all,
its mouth is lined with tiny, sharp teeth and its
tongue is entirely too long.
Lyz:
So, not a friend?
Erik:
Most certainly not. It looks poised to leap at
you and attack. Roll for initiative! Valeros and
Kyra need to roll Perception, while Merisiel
should roll Stealth.
Everyone rolls for their initiative. Lyz rolls a 2 for Valeros,
getting a total of 8. Judy rolls better for Kyra, getting
a total of 14. James uses Stealth for Initiative, because
Merisiel was hiding at the start of the fight, and rolls a
17 for a total of 25! Erik rolls for the undead creature,
getting a 12. Erik records all these totals, putting the
characters in order from highest to lowest.
Erik:
Looks like Merisiel gets to act first. Whatever
that thing is, you’re pretty sure it doesn’t know
you are there.
James:
Awesome! For my first action, I want to draw a
dagger. For my second, I want to move closer.
Erik:
You can get to within 15 feet of it with one
Stride action.
James:
Perfect. For my final action, I’m going to throw
my dagger at it!
James rolls a 13 and adds 8, due to Merisiel’s skill at
thrown daggers, for a total of 21, but the range means
he takes a –2 penalty for a result of 19. Erik consults his
notes to learn that the monster has an AC of 18.
Erik:
That’s a hit! Go ahead and roll damage.
James:
Okay, and I get to add extra damage due to
sneak attack.
Rogues have the ability to deal extra damage to foes that
haven’t acted yet in an encounter. This extra damage also
applies to attacks against enemies that are distracted. James
rolls 1d4 for the dagger and 1d6 for the sneak attack, and
he adds 4 for Merisiel’s Dexterity, getting a total of 9.
Erik:
It hisses as the blade sinks into its shoulder. That
looks like it hurt, but the undead thing doesn’t
appear to be slowing down. James, that was all
three of your actions. Next up is Kyra!
Judy:
I think this is undead. What do I know about it?
Erik:
You use an action to recall your training about
the living dead. Give me a Religion skill check.
Core Rulebook
14
