The rules within each class allow you to bring a wealth
of character concepts to life. Perhaps you want to create
a brilliant but scatterbrained alchemist who can rattle off
complex formulas for alchemical items but has trouble
remembering his best friend’s birthday. Or perhaps you
want your character to be a muscle-bound swordswoman
who becomes as immovable as a mountain when she
hoists a shield. Maybe they’ll be a hot-tempered sorcerer
whose gesticulating fingers pulse with light from an angelic
ancestor. The choices you make for your character within
their class—such as a cleric’s choice of deity, a fighter’s
choice of weapon, or a sorcerer’s bloodline—bring these
visions to life within the context of the rules and the world.
The entries on the pages that follow describe the 12 core
classes in Pathfinder. Each entry contains the information
you need to play a character of that class, as well as to
advance them from their humble beginnings at 1st level to
the dizzying heights of power at 20th level. In addition to
the class entries, you might need to reference the following
sections, which detail additional character options and
how to advance your character in level.
•	 Leveling Up on page 31 tells you how to make
your character stronger when you get enough
Experience Points to reach a new level.
•	 Animal Companions and Familiars on page 214
provides rules to create an animal companion
or a familiar to share your adventures with. You
must have a class feature or feat that grants you a
companion or familiar to use these rules.
•	 Archetypes on page 219 gives you thematic
options that allow you to further customize your
character’s abilities. Though these rules are not
recommended for beginners, the archetypes in this
book allow you to gain abilities from other classes
starting at 2nd level.
Reading Class Entries
Every class entry includes information about typical
members of the class, plus suggestions for roleplaying
characters of that class and playing these characters in the
game’s various modes. Each class provides your character
with an ability boost to a key ability score; a number of
Hit Points they receive at each level; proficiency ranks for
Chapter 3: Classes
Just as your character’s ancestry plays a key role in expressing their identity and worldview,
their class indicates the training they have and will improve upon as an adventurer.
Choosing your character’s class is perhaps the most important decision you will make
for them. Groups of players often create characters whose skills and abilities complement
each other mechanically—for example, ensuring your party includes a healer, a combat-
oriented character, a stealthy character, and someone with command over magic—so you
may wish to discuss options with your group before deciding.
various abilities, equipment, and skills; special abilities
from their class features; and more. Your character’s class
entry also provides the information needed when they
gain levels, so it will be a vital reference throughout the
course of your campaign.
Playing the Class
The first section of each class describes the interests and
tendencies typical of that class, as well as information
on how others view them. This can help inspire you
as you determine your character’s actions and define
their personality, but you aren’t obligated to play your
character as this section describes.
Key Ability
This is the ability score that a member of your class cares
about the most. Many of your most useful and powerful
abilities are tied to this ability in some way.
For instance, this is the ability score you’ll use to
determine the Difficulty Class (DC) associated with your
character’s class features and feats. This is called your
class DC. If your character is a member of a spellcasting
class, this key ability is used to calculate spell DCs and
similar values.
Most classes are associated with one key ability score,
but some allow you to choose from two options. For
instance, if you’re a fighter, you can choose either Strength
or Dexterity as your key ability. A fighter who chooses
Strength will excel in hand-to-hand combat, while those
who choose Dexterity prefer ranged or finesse weapons.
Additionally, when you choose your character’s class,
they gain an ability boost to their key ability score,
increasing that ability score by 2. For more about ability
boosts, see page 20.
Hit Points
This section tells you how many Hit Points your
character gains from their class at each level. To
determine your character’s starting Hit Points, add
together the Hit Points they got when you chose their
ancestry and the amount listed in this entry, which
equals your Constitution modifier plus a fixed number.
Classes that intend for characters to rush into battle
with weapons bared gain a higher number of Hit Points
3
67
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Skills
Feats
Equipment
Spells
The Age of
Lost OMENS
Playing the
Game
Game
mastering
Crafting
& Treasure
Appendix
