Usage etched onto a thrown weapon
When you make a thrown Strike with this weapon, it flies back
to your hand after the Strike is complete. If your hands are full
when the weapon returns, it falls to the ground in your space.
SHIFTING
RUNE 6
MAGICAL
 TRANSMUTATION
Price 225 gp
Usage etched onto a melee weapon
With a moment of manipulation, you can shift this weapon
into a different weapon with a similar form.
Activate [one-action] Interact; Effect The weapon takes the shape
of another melee weapon that requires the same number of
hands to wield. The weapon’s runes and any precious material
it’s made of apply to the weapon’s new shape. Any property
runes that can’t apply to the new form are suppressed until
the item takes a shape to which they can apply.
SHOCK
RUNE 8+
ELECTRICITY
 EVOCATION
 MAGICAL
Usage etched onto a weapon
Electric arcs crisscross this weapon, dealing an extra 1d6
electricity damage on a hit. On a critical hit, electricity arcs out
to deal an equal amount of electricity damage to up to two other
creatures of your choice within 10 feet of the target.
Type shock; Level 8; Price 500 gp
Type greater shock; Level 15; Price 6,500 gp
Electricity damage dealt by this weapon ignores the target’s
electricity resistance (and the other creatures’ on a critical hit).
SPEED
RUNE 16
RARE
 MAGICAL
 TRANSMUTATION
Price 10,000 gp
Usage etched onto a weapon
Attacks with a speed weapon are supernaturally swift. While
wielding a speed weapon, you gain the quickened condition,
but you can use the additional action granted only to make a
Strike with the etched weapon.
SPELL-STORING
RUNE 13
UNCOMMON
ABJURATION
 MAGICAL
Price 2,700 gp
Usage etched onto a melee weapon
A spell-storing rune creates a reservoir of eldritch energy within
the etched weapon. A spellcaster can spend 1 minute to cast
a spell of 3rd level or lower into the weapon. The spell must
have a casting of 2 actions or fewer and must be able to target
a creature other than the caster. The spell has no immediate
effect—it is instead stored for later. When you wield a
spell-storing weapon, you immediately know the name and level
of the stored spell. A spell-storing weapon found as treasure has
a 50% chance of having a spell of the GM’s choice stored in it.
Activate [one-action] command; Requirements On your previous action
this turn, you hit and damaged a creature with this weapon;
Effect You unleash the stored spell, which uses the target of
the triggering attack as the target of the spell. This empties the
spell from the weapon and allows a spell to be cast into it again.
If the spell requires a spell attack roll, the result of your attack
roll with the weapon determines the degree of success of the
spell, and if the spell requires a saving throw, the DC is 30.
Activate [one-action] command; Effect Harmlessly expend the stored
spell. This frees the weapon to have a new spell cast into it.
THUNDERING
RUNE 8+
EVOCATION
 MAGICAL
 SONIC
Usage etched onto a weapon
This weapon lets out a peal of thunder when it hits, dealing
an extra 1d6 sonic damage on a successful Strike. On a critical
hit, the target has to succeed at a DC 24 Fortitude save or be
deafened for 1 minute (or 1 hour on a critical failure).
Type thundering; Level 8; Price 500 gp
Type greater thundering; Level 15; Price 6,500 gp
The save DC is 34, and the deafness is permanent. Sonic damage
dealt by this weapon ignores the target’s sonic resistance.
UNHOLY
RUNE 11
EVIL
 EVOCATION
 MAGICAL
Price 1,400 gp
Usage etched onto a weapon without a holy rune
An unholy rune instills fiendish power into the etched weapon.
A weapon with this rune deals an additional 1d6 evil damage
when it hits a good target. If you are good, you are enfeebled
2 while carrying or wielding this weapon.
Activate [reaction] command; Frequency once per day; Trigger You
critically succeed at an attack roll against a good creature with
the weapon; Effect The target takes persistent bleed damage
equal to 1d8 per weapon damage die of the etched weapon.
Craft Requirements You are evil.
VORPAL
RUNE 17
RARE
 EVOCATION
 MAGICAL
Price 15,000 gp
Usage etched onto a slashing melee weapon
Originally created as a means of slaying the legendary
jabberwock, vorpal weapons prove equally effective against
nearly any foe with a head.
Activate [reaction] envision (death, incapacitation); Trigger You roll
a natural 20 on a Strike with the weapon, critically succeed,
and deal slashing damage. The target must have a head;
Effect The target must succeed at a DC 37 Fortitude save or
be decapitated. This kills any creature except ones that don’t
require a head to live. For creatures with multiple heads, this
usually kills the creature only if you sever its last head.
WOUNDING
RUNE 7
MAGICAL
 NECROMANCY
Price 340 gp
Usage etched onto a piercing or slashing melee weapon
Weapons with wounding runes are said to thirst for blood.
When you hit a creature with a wounding weapon, you deal an
extra 1d6 persistent bleed damage. On a critical hit, it instead
deals 1d12 persistent bleed damage.
585
11
Crafting & Treasure
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Skills
Feats
Equipment
Spells
The Age of
Lost OMENS
Playing the
Game
Game
mastering
Crafting
& Treasure
Appendix
