Activating Items
Some items produce their effects only when used properly
in the moment. Others always offer the same benefits as
their mundane counterparts when worn, but have magical
abilities you can gain by further spending actions. Either
case requires you to use the Activate an Item activity.
Activating an Item works much like Casting a Spell, in that
the activity takes a variable number of actions and can have
different components depending on how you Activate the
Item. This information appears in the item’s Activate entry.
If an item is used up when activated, as is the case for
consumable items, its Activate entry appears toward the
top of the stat block. For permanent items with activated
abilities, the Activate entry is a paragraph in the description.
Activations are not necessarily magical—for instance,
drinking an alchemical elixir isn’t usually a magical effect.
ACTIVATE AN ITEM
Requirement You can Activate an Item with the invested
trait only if it’s invested by you. If the item requires you to
Interact with it, you must be wielding it (if it’s a held item)
or touching it with a free hand (if it’s another type of item).
You call forth the effect of an item by properly activating
it. This is a special activity that takes a variable number of
actions, as listed in the item’s stat block.
Some items can be activated as a reaction or free action. In
this case, you Activate the Item as a reaction or free action (as
appropriate) instead of as an activity. Such cases are noted
in the item’s Activate entry in its stat block—for example,
“Activate [reaction] command.”
Long Activation Times Some items take minutes or hours
to activate. The Activate an Item activity for these items
includes a mix of the listed activation components, but it’s not
necessary to break down which one you’re providing at a given
time. You can’t use other actions or reactions while activating
such an item, though at the GM’s discretion, you might be able
to speak a few sentences. As with other activities that take
a long time, these activations have the exploration trait, and
you can’t activate them in an encounter. If combat breaks out
while you’re activating one, your activation is disrupted (see
the Disrupting Activations sidebar).
Activation Components Each activation entry lists any
components involved in the activation after the action icons
or text, such as “[one-action] command.” The activation components,
DISRUPTING ACTIVATIONS
Some abilities and effects can disrupt the process of
Activating an Item. If something disrupts your item
activation, you fail to Activate the Item and lose the
actions you committed. If the item can be activated only
a certain number of times per day, the failed activation
still counts against that limit. If an item requires you to
spend actions to Sustain an Activation and one of those
actions is disrupted, the item’s effect ends.
Core Rulebook
532
