Good and Evil
Your character has a good alignment if they consider the
happiness of others above their own and work selflessly to
assist others, even those who aren’t friends and family. They
are also good if they value protecting others from harm,
even if doing so puts the character in danger. Your character
has an evil alignment if they’re willing to victimize others
for their own selfish gain, and even more so if they enjoy
inflicting harm. If your character falls somewhere in the
middle, they’re likely neutral on this axis.
Law and Chaos
Your character has a lawful alignment if they value
consistency, stability, and predictability over flexibility.
Lawful characters have a set system in life, whether it’s
meticulously planning day-to-day activities, carefully
following a set of official or unofficial laws, or strictly
adhering to a code of honor. On the other hand, if your
character values flexibility, creativity, and spontaneity over
consistency, they have a chaotic alignment—though this
doesn’t mean they make decisions by choosing randomly.
Chaotic characters believe that lawful characters are too
inflexible to judge each situation by its own merits or take
advantage of opportunities, while lawful characters believe
that chaotic characters are irresponsible and flighty.
Many characters are in the middle, obeying the law
or following a code of conduct in many situations, but
bending the rules when the situation requires it. If your
character is in the middle, they are neutral on this axis.
Changing Alignment
Alignment can change during play as a character’s beliefs
change, or as you realize that your character’s actions
reflect a different alignment than the one on your character
sheet. In most cases, you can just change their alignment
and continue playing. However, if you play a cleric or
champion and your character’s alignment changes to one
not allowed for their deity (or cause, for champions), your
character loses some of their class abilities until they atone
(as described in the class).
Deity
Write down the deity your character worships, if any.
Champions and clerics must worship a deity. See pages
437–440 for more about Pathfinder’s deities.
Age
Decide your character’s age and note it on the third page
of the character sheet. The description for your character’s
ancestry in Chapter 2 gives some guidance on the age
ranges of members of that ancestry. Beyond that, you can
play a character of whatever age you like. There aren’t
any mechanical adjustments to your character for being
particularly old, but you might want to take it into account
when considering your starting ability scores and future
advancement. Particularly young characters can change
the tone of some of the game’s threats, so it’s recommended
that characters are at least young adults.
Gender and Pronouns
Characters of all genders are equally likely to become
adventurers. Record your character’s gender, if applicable,
and their pronouns on the third page of the character sheet.
Class DC
A class DC sets the difficulty for certain abilities granted
by your character’s class. This DC equals 10 plus their
proficiency bonus for their class DC (+3 for most 1st-level
characters) plus the modifier for the class’s key ability score.
Hero Points
Your character usually begins each game session with
1 Hero Point, and you can gain additional Hero Points
during sessions by performing heroic deeds or devising
clever strategies. Your character can use Hero Points to
gain certain benefits, such as staving off death or rerolling
a d20. See page 467 for more about Hero Points.
Armor Class (AC)
Your character’s Armor Class represents how difficult they
are to hit in combat. To calculate your AC, add 10 plus
your character’s Dexterity modifier (up to their armor’s
Dexterity modifier cap; page 274), plus their proficiency
bonus with their armor, plus their armor’s item bonus to
AC and any other permanent bonuses and penalties.
Bulk
Your character’s maximum Bulk determines how much
weight they can comfortably carry. If they’re carrying a total
amount of Bulk that exceeds 5 plus their Strength modifier,
they are encumbered. A character can’t carry a total amount
of Bulk that exceeds 10 plus their Strength modifier. The
Bulk your character is carrying equals the sum of all of their
items; keep in mind that 10 light items make up 1 Bulk. You
can find out more about Bulk in Chapter 6: Equipment.
TABLE 1–2: THE NINE ALIGNMENTS
Good
Neutral
Evil
Lawful
Lawful
Good
(LG)
Lawful
Neutral
(LN)
Lawful
Evil
(LE)
Neutral
Neutral
Good
(NG)
True
Neutral
(N)
Neutral
Evil
(NE)
Chaotic
Chaotic
Good
(CG)
Chaotic
Neutral
(CN)
Chaotic
Evil
(CE)
Introduction
1
29
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Skills
Feats
Equipment
Spells
The Age of
Lost OMENS
Playing the
Game
Game
mastering
Crafting
& Treasure
Appendix
