From fleets of pirates united under the Hurricane
Queen of the Shackles to an ancient, subaquatic empire
of shapechanging monsters led by the sinister veiled
masters, the High Seas of Golarion present dangers
both above and below the waves. Yet they also serve as
important trade routes, with merchant ships traveling
the waters to link powerful nations at opposite ends of
continents. Sea captains brave the dangers of the High
Seas hoping to partake in the fortunes to be made in
trade, linking the ports of the Inner Sea itself to those
on the shores of the Arcadian Ocean from the Mwangi
Expanse to the Saga Lands.
Piracy is one of the greatest dangers facing travel on
the High Seas. The immense volcanic archipelago known
as the Shackles serves as a haven for these pirates, with
their Hurricane Queen providing just enough structure
to keep them from going at each other’s throats. A great
diversity of monsters and threats populate these islands,
and the local pirates know which are safe and which to
avoid. North of the Shackles lies Mediogalti Island. While
its only significant port, Ilizmagorti, is a known safe
harbor for pirates, it is the presence of the infamous Red
Mantis assassins who rule the isle that gives this region
its greatest infamy.
Other ports present their own complications. The
port-city of Promise on the remote isle of Hermea a few
hundred miles west of Avistan rewards well those who
can negotiate the privilege of trade, but such honors are
hard won, for the dragon who rules this closed society
does not allow just anyone to visit. Rumors of what goes
on beyond Promise’s dock district range from tales of a
perfect society to those of an oppressive government that
affords no free will. Farther to the north, the elves of the
Mordant Spire are even more closed to visitors, and for
most sailors, the only thing the Mordant Spire offers is
an unmistakable landmark for navigation, as the twisting
spire can be seen for miles.
Of all the regions along the Avistani and Garundi
coastlines, though, none are more hazardous to travel
than the waters tortured by the Eye of Abendego. This
immense hurricane first formed at the onset of the Age
of Lost Omens, when storms wracked all of Golarion in
the wake of Aroden’s death. Unlike those other storms,
though, this hurricane remained. Its winds and storm
surge have destroyed several nations and transformed a
previously key gulf into a navigational nightmare. What
strange force caused and perpetuates the Eye of Abendego
has, to date, eluded all investigation.
High Seas
Core Rulebook
424
