land. Treat falls longer than 1,500 feet as though they
were 1,500 feet (750 damage). If you take any damage
from a fall, you land prone. You fall about 500 feet
in the first round of falling and about 1,500 feet each
round thereafter.
You can Grab an Edge as a reaction to reduce the
damage from some falls. In addition, if you fall into
water, snow, or another relatively soft substance, you
can treat the fall as though it were 20 feet shorter, or 30
feet shorter if you intentionally dove in. The effective
reduction can’t be greater than the depth (so when
falling into 10-foot-deep water, you treat the fall as 10
feet shorter).
Falling on a Creature
If you land on a creature, that creature must attempt a
DC 15 Reflex save. Landing exactly on a creature after a
long fall is almost impossible.
Critical Success The creature takes no damage.
Success The creature takes bludgeoning damage equal to
one-quarter the falling damage you took.
Failure The creature takes bludgeoning damage equal to half
the falling damage you took.
Critical Failure The creature takes the same amount of
bludgeoning damage you took from the fall.
Falling Objects
A dropped object takes damage just like a falling
creature. If the object lands on a creature, that creature
can attempt a Reflex save using the same rules as for a
creature falling on a creature. Hazards and spells that
involve falling objects, such as a rock slide, have their
own rules about how they interact with creatures and
the damage they deal.
Perception
Your Perception measures your ability to notice things,
search for what’s hidden, and tell whether something
about a situation is suspicious. This statistic is
frequently used for rolling initiative to determine who
goes first in an encounter, and it’s also used for the
Seek action.
The rules for rolling a Perception check are found
on page 448. The rules below describe the effects of
light and visibility on your specific senses to perceive
the world, as well as the rules for sensing and locating
creatures with Perception.
Light
The amount of light in an area can affect how well you
see things. There are three levels of light: bright light,
dim light, and darkness. The rules in this book assume
that all creatures are in bright light unless otherwise
noted. A source of light lists the radius in which it sheds
bright light, and it sheds dim light to double that radius.
Bright Light
In bright light, such as sunlight, creatures and objects
can be observed clearly by anyone with average vision
or better. Some types of creatures are dazzled or blinded
by bright light.
Dim Light
Areas in shadow or lit by weak light sources are in
dim light. Creatures and objects in dim light have the
concealed condition, unless the seeker has darkvision or
low-light vision (see Special Senses on page 465), or a
precise sense other than vision.
Darkness
A creature or object within darkness is hidden or
undetected unless the seeker has darkvision or a precise
sense other than vision (Special Senses are on page 465).
A creature without darkvision or another means of
perceiving in darkness has the blinded condition while
in darkness, though it might be able to see illuminated
areas beyond the darkness. If a creature can see into
an illuminated area, it can observe creatures within
that illuminated area normally. After being in darkness,
sudden exposure to bright light might make you dazzled
for a short time, as determined by the GM.
Senses
The ways a creature can use Perception depend on what
senses it has. The primary concepts you need to know
for understanding senses are precise senses, imprecise
senses, and the three states of detection a target can be
in: observed, hidden, or undetected. Vision, hearing, and
scent are three prominent senses, but they don’t have the
same degree of acuity.
Precise Senses
Average vision is a precise sense—a sense that can be
used to perceive the world in nuanced detail. The only
way to target a creature without having drawbacks is
to use a precise sense. You can usually detect a creature
automatically with a precise sense unless that creature is
hiding or obscured by the environment, in which case you
can use the Seek basic action to better detect the creature.
Imprecise Senses
Hearing is an imprecise sense—it cannot detect the full
range of detail that a precise sense can. You can usually
sense a creature automatically with an imprecise sense,
but it has the hidden condition instead of the observed
condition. It might be undetected by you if it’s using
Stealth or is in an environment that distorts the sense,
such as a noisy room in the case of hearing. In those
cases, you have to use the Seek basic action to detect the
creature. At best, an imprecise sense can be used to make
an undetected creature (or one you didn’t even know was
there) merely hidden—it can’t make the creature observed.
Core Rulebook
464
