triggering concentrate or manipulate action if your Strike hits
(not only if it’s a critical hit).
FEARSOME BRUTE
FEAT 10
FIGHTER
Fear makes your foes weak and more vulnerable to your
attacks. You gain a circumstance bonus to damage rolls for
Strikes against frightened creatures. The bonus is equal to
double the target’s frightened value.
If you have master proficiency in Intimidation, increase the
bonus to triple the target’s frightened value.
IMPROVED KNOCKDOWN
FEAT 10
FIGHTER
Prerequisites Knockdown
You can dash your foe to the ground with a single blow. When
you use Knockdown, instead of making a Strike followed by a
Trip, you can attempt a single Strike. If you do and your Strike
hits, you also apply the critical success effect of a Trip. If you
used a two-handed melee weapon for the Strike, you can use
the weapon’s damage die size instead of the regular die size
for the damage from a critical Trip.
MIRROR SHIELD [reaction]
FEAT 10
FIGHTER
Trigger An opponent casting a spell that targets you critically
fails a spell attack roll against your AC.
Requirements You have a shield raised.
You reflect the spell back against the triggering opponent.
Make a ranged attack against the triggering creature using
your highest proficiency with a ranged weapon. If you can cast
spells, you can make a spell attack roll instead. If you succeed,
your opponent takes the effects of a successful spell attack
roll for their own spell (or the effects of a critical success if
your attack roll was a critical success).
TWIN RIPOSTE [reaction]
FEAT 10
FIGHTER
Trigger A creature within your reach critically fails a Strike
against you.
Requirements You are benefiting from Twin Parry.
A clever parry with one weapon leaves your opponent open to
an attack with the other weapon. Make a melee Strike or use a
Disarm action against the triggering opponent.
12TH LEVEL
BRUTAL FINISH [one-action]
FEAT 12
FIGHTER
PRESS
Requirements You are wielding a melee weapon in two hands.
Your final blow can make an impact even if it rebounds off a
foe’s defenses. Make a Strike with the required weapon. After
the Strike, your turn ends. The Strike deals one extra weapon
damage die, or two extra weapon damage dice if you’re at least
18th level. The Strike also gains the following failure effect.
Failure You deal damage equal to one weapon damage die of
the required weapon. Increase this to two dice if you’re at
least 18th level.
DUELING DANCE [one-action]
FEAT 12
FIGHTER
STANCE
Prerequisites Dueling Parry
Requirements You are wielding only a single one-handed
melee weapon and have your other hand or hands free.
Using your free hand as pivot and balance, you both attack
and defend with your weapon. While you are in this stance,
you constantly have the benefits of Dueling Parry.
FLINGING SHOVE
FEAT 12
FIGHTER
Prerequisites Aggressive Block or Brutish Shove
Increase the distance you Shove your opponent with
Aggressive Block or Brutish Shove to 10 feet on a success or
20 feet on a critical success. When you use Aggressive Block,
you can choose whether the target is flat-footed or Shoved.
When you make a Brutish Shove, you also Shove the target 5
feet on a failure.
IMPROVED DUELING RIPOSTE 
FEAT 12
FIGHTER
Prerequisites Dueling Riposte
Your weapon whirls and darts, striking foes whenever the
opportunity presents itself. At the start of each of your turns,
you gain an additional reaction that you can use only to make
a Dueling Riposte. You can use this extra reaction even if you
are not benefiting from Dueling Parry.
INCREDIBLE RICOCHET [one-action]
FEAT 12
CONCENTRATE
FIGHTER
PRESS
Prerequisites Incredible Aim
After your first shot singles out your opponent’s position, you
direct another that ricochets around obstacles and strikes
unerringly. Make a ranged weapon Strike. You ignore the
target’s concealed condition and all cover.
LUNGING STANCE [one-action]
FEAT 12
FIGHTER
STANCE
Prerequisites attack of opportunity, Lunge
Requirement You are wielding a melee weapon.
Your body coiled to strike, you can lash out at distant enemies.
While you are in this stance, you can use Attack of Opportunity
against a creature that is outside your reach but within the
reach you would have with a Lunge. If you do, you increase
your range with the Strike by 5 feet.
PARAGON’S GUARD [one-action]
FEAT 12
FIGHTER
STANCE
Requirements You are wielding a shield.
Once you’ve had a moment to set your stance, you always have
your shield ready without a thought. While you are in this stance,
you constantly have your shield raised as if you’d used the Raise
a Shield action, as long as you meet that action’s requirements.
151
3
CLASSES
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Skills
Feats
Equipment
Spells
The Age of
Lost OMENS
Playing the
Game
Game
mastering
Crafting
& Treasure
Appendix
