this takes time and requires using the Diplomacy skill to
Gather Information, doing some research, or socializing.
When you take on a job, the GM secretly sets the DC of your
skill check. After your first day of work, you roll to determine
your earnings. You gain an amount of income based on your
result, the task’s level, and your proficiency rank (as listed on
Table 4–2: Income Earned).
You can continue working at the task on subsequent days
without needing to roll again. For each day you spend after
the first, you earn the same amount as the first day, up until
the task’s completion. The GM determines how long you can
work at the task. Most tasks last a week or two, though some
can take months or even years.
Critical Success You do outstanding work. Gain the amount of
currency listed for the task level + 1 and your proficiency rank.
Success You do competent work. Gain the amount of currency
listed for the task level and your proficiency rank.
Failure You do shoddy work and get paid the bare minimum
for your time. Gain the amount of currency listed in the
failure column for the task level. The GM will likely reduce
how long you can continue at the task.
Critical Failure You earn nothing for your work and are fired
immediately. You can’t continue at the task. Your reputation
suffers, potentially making it difficult for you to find
rewarding jobs in that community in the future.
Sample Earn Income Tasks
These examples use Alcohol Lore to work in a bar or
Legal Lore to perform legal work.
Trained bartend, do legal research
Expert curate drink selection, present minor court cases
Master run a large brewery, present important court cases
Legendary run an international brewing franchise, present
a case in Hell’s courts
Crafting Goods for the Market (Crafting)
Using Crafting, you can work at producing common
items for the market. It’s usually easy to find work making
basic items whose level is 1 or 2 below your settlement’s
level (see Earn Income on page 504). Higher-level tasks
represent special commissions, which might require you to
Craft a specific item using the Craft downtime activity and
sell it to a buyer at full price. These opportunities don’t
occur as often and might have special requirements—or
serious consequences if you disappoint a prominent client.
Practicing a Trade (Lore)
You apply the practical benefits of one of your Lore
specialties during downtime by practicing your trade. This
is most effective for Lore specialties such as business, law,
or sailing, where there’s high demand for workers. The GM
might increase the DC or determine only low-level tasks
are available if you’re attempting to use an obscure Lore
skill to Earn Income. You might also need specialized tools
to accept a job, like mining tools to work in a mine or a
merchant’s scale to buy and sell valuables in a market.
INCOME EXAMPLES
The following examples show the kinds of tasks your
character might take on to Earn Income during low-level
and high-level play.
HARSK MAKES TEA
Harsk is a 3rd-level ranger and an expert at harvesting
and brewing tea. He has a Tea Lore modifier of +7. He
has 30 days of downtime at his disposal and decides to
work at a prestigious local tea house. The GM decides
this is a 5th-level task if Harsk wants to assist the tea
master, or a 2nd-level task if he wants to serve tea.
Harsk chooses the tougher task, and the GM secretly
sets the DC at 20.
Harsk rolls a 4 on his Tea Lore check for a result of 11.
Poor Harsk has failed! He earns only 2 sp for his efforts
and continues working for 3 more days, for a total of
8 sp.
At that point, the GM offers Harsk a choice: either he
can finish out the week with the tea master and look
for a new job, or he can lower his ambitions and serve
in the tea house. Harsk, now more aware of his own
capabilities, accepts the less prestigious job for now.
He moves to his new job and attempts a new Tea Lore
check against DC 16. Rolling a 19, he gets a result of
26—a critical success! He earns 5 sp per day (like a
success at a 3rd-level task). The GM rules that demand
will be high enough that Harsk can work there for the
remainder of his downtime if he so chooses, a total of
26 days. Harsk accepts and earns a total of 138 sp (13
gp, 8 sp) that month.
LEM PERFORMS
Lem is a 16th-level bard and legendary with his flute. He
has a Performance modifier of +31 with his enchanted
flute. With 30 days of downtime ahead of him, Lem
wonders if he can find something that might excite him
more than performing in front of a bunch of stuffy nobles.
He finds a momentous offer indeed—a performance in a
celestial realm, and Lem’s patron goddess Shelyn might
even be in attendance! This is a 20th-level task, and the
GM secretly sets the DC at 40.
Lem rolls an 11 on his Performance check for a result
of 42. Success! The engagement lasts for a week, and
at the end, the grateful celestials present Lem with a
beautiful living diamond rose in constant bloom worth
1,400 gold pieces (200 gp per day for 7 days).
With 23 days of downtime left, Lem accepts a 14th-
level task performing at a prestigious bardic college for
members of a royal court. The GM secretly sets the DC
at 32, and Lem critically succeeds, earning 28 gp per day
for a total of 644 gp. Between the two performances,
Lem has earned just over 2,000 gold pieces during his
downtime—though he’s not sure he’ll ever sell that rose.
4
Skills
237
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Skills
Feats
Equipment
Spells
The Age of
Lost OMENS
Playing the
Game
Game
mastering
Crafting
& Treasure
Appendix
