Structure
An encounter is played out in a series of rounds,
during which the player characters, adversaries, and
other participants in the encounter act in sequence.
You roll initiative to determine this order at the start
of the encounter and then play through rounds until a
conclusion is reached and the encounter ends. The rules
in this section assume a combat encounter—a battle—but
the general structure can apply to any kind of encounter.
Step 1: Roll Initiative
When the GM calls for it, you’ll roll initiative to
determine your place in the initiative order, which is
the sequence in which the encounter’s participants will
take their turns. Rolling initiative marks the start of an
encounter. More often than not, you’ll roll initiative
when you enter a battle.
Typically, you’ll roll a Perception check to determine your
initiative—the more aware you are of your surroundings,
the more quickly you can respond. Sometimes, though, the
GM might call on you to roll some other type of check. For
instance, if you were Avoiding Notice during exploration
(page 479), you’d roll a Stealth check. A social encounter
could call for a Deception or Diplomacy check.
The GM rolls initiative for anyone other than the player
characters in the encounter. If these include a number of
identical creatures, the GM could roll once for the group
as a whole and have them take their turns within the
group in any order. However, this can make battles less
predictable and more dangerous, so the GM might want to
roll initiative for some or all creatures individually unless
it’s too much of a burden.
Unlike a typical check, where the result is compared to a
DC, the results of initiative rolls are ranked. This ranking
sets the order in which the encounter’s participants act—
the initiative order. The character with the highest result
goes first. The second highest follows, and so on until
whoever had the lowest result takes their turn last.
If your result is tied with a foe’s result, the adversary goes
first. If your result is tied with another PC’s, you can decide
between yourselves who goes first when you reach that
place in the initiative order. After that, your places in the
initiative order usually don’t change during the encounter.
Step 2: Play a Round
A round begins when the participant with the highest
initiative roll result starts their turn, and it ends when the
one with the lowest initiative ends their turn. The process
of taking a turn is detailed below. Creatures might also act
outside their turns with reactions and free actions.
Step 3: Begin the Next Round
Once everyone in the encounter has taken a turn, the
round is over and the next one begins. Don’t roll initiative
again; the new round proceeds in the same order as the
previous one, repeating the cycle until the encounter ends.
Step 4: End the Encounter
When your foes are defeated, some sort of truce is reached,
or some other event or circumstance ends the combat,
the encounter is over. You and the other participants no
longer follow the initiative order, and a more free-form
style of play resumes, with the game typically moving into
exploration mode. Sometimes at the end of an encounter,
the GM will award Experience Points to the party or
you’ll find treasure to divvy up.
Turns
When it’s your turn to act, you can use single actions ([one-action]),
short activities ([two-actions] and [three-actions]), reactions ([reaction]), and free
actions ([free-action]). When you’re finished, your turn ends and
the character next in the initiative order begins their turn.
Sometimes it’s important to note when during your turn
something happens, so a turn is divided into three steps.
Step 1: Start Your Turn
Many things happen automatically at the start of your
turn— it’s a common point for tracking the passage of time
for effects that last multiple rounds. At the start of each of
your turns, take these steps in any order you choose:
•	 If you created an effect lasting for a certain
number of rounds, reduce the number of rounds
remaining by 1. The effect ends if the duration is
reduced to 0. For example, if you cast a spell that
lasts 3 rounds on yourself during your first turn
of a fight, it would affect you during that turn,
decrease to 2 rounds of duration at the start of
your second turn, decrease to 1 round of duration
at the start of your third turn, and expire at the
start of your fourth turn.
•	 You can use 1 free action or reaction with a trigger
of “Your turn begins” or something similar.
•	 If you’re dying, roll a recovery check (page 459).
Encounter Mode
When every individual action counts, you enter the encounter mode of play. In this mode,
time is divided into rounds, each of which is 6 seconds of time in the game world. Every
round, each participant takes a turn in an established order. During your turn, you can use
actions, and depending on the details of the encounter, you might have the opportunity to
use reactions and free actions on your own turn and on others’ turns.
Core Rulebook
468
