TABLE 6–2: CHANGING EQUIPMENT
Change
Hands
Action
Draw, stow, or pick up an item 1
1 or 2
Interact
Pass an item to or take an item from a willing creature 2
1 or 2
Interact
Drop an item to the ground
1 or 2
Release
Detach a shield or item strapped to you
1
Interact
Change your grip by removing a hand from an item
2
Release
Change your grip by adding a hand to an item
2
Interact
Retrieve an item from a backpack 3 or satchel
2
Interact
1	 If you retrieve a two-handed item with only one hand, you still need to change your grip before you can wield or use it.
2	 A creature must have a hand free for someone to pass an item to them, and they might then need to change their grip if they
receive an item requiring two hands to wield or use.
3	 Retrieving an item stowed in your own backpack requires first taking off the backpack with a separate Interact action.
Broken
Broken is a condition that affects objects. An object is
broken when damage has reduced its Hit Points below
its Broken Threshold. A broken object can’t be used for
its normal function, nor does it grant bonuses—with the
exception of armor. Broken armor still grants its item
bonus to AC, but it also imparts a status penalty to AC
depending on its category: –1 for broken light armor, –2 for
broken medium armor, or –3 for broken heavy armor.
A broken item still imposes penalties and limitations
normally incurred by carrying, holding, or wearing it. For
example, broken armor would still impose its Dexterity
modifier cap, check penalty, and so forth.
If an effect makes an item broken automatically and the
item has more HP than its Broken Threshold, that effect
also reduces the item’s current HP to the Broken Threshold.
Object Immunities
Inanimate objects and hazards are immune to bleed,
death effects, disease, healing, mental effects, necromancy,
nonlethal attacks, and poison, as well as the doomed,
drained, fatigued, paralyzed, sickened, and unconscious
conditions. An item that has a mind is not immune to mental
effects. Many objects are immune to other conditions, at the
GM’s discretion. For instance, a sword has no Speed, so it
can’t take a penalty to its Speed, but an effect that causes a
Speed penalty might work on a moving blade trap.
Shoddy Items
Improvised or of dubious make, shoddy items are never
available for purchase except for in the most desperate of
communities. When available, a shoddy item usually costs
half the Price of a standard item, though you can never sell
one in any case. Attacks and checks involving a shoddy
item take a –2 item penalty. This penalty also applies to any
DCs that a shoddy item applies to (such as AC, for shoddy
armor). A shoddy suit of armor also worsens the armor’s
check penalty by 2. A shoddy item’s Hit Points and Broken
Threshold are each half that of a normal item of its type.
EQUIPMENT
6
273
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Skills
Feats
Equipment
Spells
The Age of
Lost OMENS
Playing the
Game
Game
mastering
Crafting
& Treasure
Appendix
