Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal; Requirements black sapphire with a
gp value of at least the target’s level × 100
Range 30 feet; Targets 1 creature that died within the
last minute
Duration unlimited
You wrench the target’s soul away before it can pass on to the
afterlife and imprison it in a black sapphire.
While the soul is in the gem, the target can’t be returned to
life through any means, even powerful magic such as wish. If
the gem is destroyed or bind soul is counteracted on the gem,
the soul is freed. The gem has AC 16 and Hardness 10. A gem
can’t hold more than one soul, and any attempt wastes the spell.
BIND UNDEAD
SPELL 3
NECROMANCY
Traditions arcane, divine, occult
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal
Range 30 feet; Targets 1 mindless undead creature with a level
no greater than bind undead’s spell level
Duration 1 day
With a word of necromantic power, you seize control of the
target. It gains the minion trait. If you or an ally uses any
hostile actions against the target, the spell ends.
BLACK TENTACLES
SPELL 5
CONJURATION
Traditions arcane, occult
Cast [three-actions] material, somatic, verbal
Range 120 feet; Area 20-foot burst adjacent to a flat surface
Duration 1 minute
Oily black tentacles rise up and attempt to Grapple each creature
in the area. Make spell attack rolls against the Fortitude DC of
each creature. Any creature you succeed against is grabbed
and takes 3d6 bludgeoning damage. Whenever a creature ends
its turn in the area, the tentacles attempt to grab that creature
if they haven’t already, and they deal 1d6 bludgeoning damage
to any creature already grabbed.
The tentacles’ Escape DC is equal to your spell DC. A creature
can attack a tentacle in an attempt to release its grip. Its AC
is equal to your spell DC, and it is destroyed if it takes 12 or
more damage. Even if destroyed, additional tentacles continue
to grow in the area until the duration ends. You can Dismiss
the spell.
BLADE BARRIER
SPELL 6
EVOCATION
FORCE
Traditions divine
Cast [three-actions] material, somatic, verbal
Range 120 feet
Duration 1 minute
Blades of force form a churning wall. The wall is a straight
line 20 feet high, 120 feet long, and 2 inches thick, and it
provides cover. The wall deals 7d8 force damage to each
creature that’s in the wall’s space when it is created, that
attempts to pass through the wall, or that ends its turn
inside the wall. A basic Reflex save reduces the damage.
A  creature that succeeds at this save when the wall is
created is pushed to the nearest space on the side of its
choice. Creatures trying to move through the wall fail to
do so if they critically fail the save, ending their movement
adjacent to the wall.
Heightened (+1) The damage increases by 1d8.
BLESS
SPELL 1
ENCHANTMENT
MENTAL
Traditions divine, occult
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal
Area 5-foot emanation; Targets you and allies in the area
Duration 1 minute
Blessings from beyond help your companions strike true.
You and your allies in the area gain a +1 status bonus to
attack rolls. Once per turn, starting the turn after you cast
bless, you can use a single action, which has the concentrate
trait, to increase the emanation’s radius by 5 feet. Bless can
counteract bane.
BLINDNESS
SPELL 3
INCAPACITATION
NECROMANCY
Traditions arcane, divine, occult, primal
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal
Range 30 feet; Targets 1 creature
Saving Throw Fortitude
You blind the target. The effect is determined by the target’s
Fortitude save. The target then becomes temporarily immune
for 1 minute.
Critical Success The target is unaffected.
Success The target is blinded until its next turn begins.
Failure The target is blinded for 1 minute.
Critical Failure The target is blinded permanently.
BLINK
SPELL 4
CONJURATION
TELEPORTATION
Traditions arcane, occult
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal
Duration 1 minute
You blink quickly between the Material Plane and the Ethereal
Plane. You gain resistance 5 to all damage (except force). You
can Sustain the Spell to vanish and reappear 10 feet away in
a random direction determined by the GM; the movement
doesn’t trigger reactions. At the end of your turn, you vanish
and reappear as above.
Heightened (+2) The resistance increases by 3.
BLUR
SPELL 2
ILLUSION
VISUAL
Traditions arcane, occult
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal
Range touch; Targets 1 creature
Duration 1 minute
The target’s form appears blurry. It becomes concealed. As the
nature of this effect still leaves the target’s location obvious,
the target can’t use this concealment to Hide or Sneak.
321
7
SPELLS
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Skills
Feats
Equipment
Spells
The Age of
Lost OMENS
Playing the
Game
Game
mastering
Crafting
& Treasure
Appendix
