With special gestures and utterances, a spellcaster can call forth mystic energies,
warp the mind, protect themself against danger, or even create something from
nothing. Each class has its own method of learning, preparing, and casting spells,
and every individual spell produces a specific effect, so learning new spells gives a
spellcaster an increasing array of options to accomplish their goals.
Tradition and School
The fundamental building blocks of magic are the magical traditions and the schools
of magic. The four traditions are arcane, divine, occult, and primal. A spell’s magical
tradition can vary, because many spells can be cast using different traditions. A spell’s
school, on the other hand, is intrinsic to the spell and establishes what the spell is
capable of. Abjuration spells, for example, can raise protective wards, enchantment
spells can change thoughts, and evocation spells can create blasts of fire.
Magical Schools
All spells, all magic items, and most other magical effects fall into one of the eight
schools of magic. These schools broadly define what the magic is capable of. Every
spell has the trait corresponding to its school. Some spellcasters, like specialist
wizards, have particular acumen with a certain school of magic.
Abjuration
Abjurations protect and ward. They create barriers that keep out attacks,
effects, or even certain types of creatures. They also create effects that harm
trespassers or banish interlopers.
Conjuration
Conjuration spells transport creatures via teleportation, create an object, or
bring a creature or object from somewhere else (typically from another
plane) to follow your commands.
Conjuration spells often have the teleportation trait, and the
creatures summoned by conjuration spells have the summoned trait.
Divination
Divinations allow you to learn the secrets of the present, past,
and future. They bestow good fortune, grant you the ability to
perceive remote locations, and reveal secret knowledge.
Divinations often have the detection trait if they find something, the prediction
trait if they grant you insight about what might happen in the future, the revelation
trait if they show things as they truly are, or the scrying trait if they let you perceive
another location.
Enchantment
Enchantments affect the minds and emotions of other creatures—sometimes to
influence and control them, and other times to bolster them to greater heights
of courage. Enchantment spells almost always have the mental trait, and many have
the emotion trait or the fear trait.
Chapter 7: Spells
Whether it comes in the form of mystic artifacts, mysterious creatures, or wizards weaving
strange spells, magic brings fantasy and wonder to Pathfinder. This chapter explains how spells
work and how spellcasters prepare and cast their spells.
SPELLBOOKS
Carefully maintained and
jealously guarded, there are
few things more valuable to a
wizard than a spellbook. These
repositories of magical lore are
often trapped and warded to
ensure that no one meddles
with the secrets inside.
Although spellbooks play
a central role in a wizard’s
daily routine, other prepared
spellcasting classes have been
known to use spellbooks to
record uncommon or even rare
spells. Such a resource allows
a caster to treat the spell like
any other common spell, so long
as they can reference the book
during their daily preparations.
7
297
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Skills
Feats
Equipment
Spells
The Age of
Lost OMENS
Playing the
Game
Game
mastering
Crafting
& Treasure
Appendix
