SPECIFIC ARMOR AND WEAPONS
Unlike armor and weapons enhanced with runes, specific
armor and weapons (such as ghoul hide or a holy avenger)
are created for a specific purpose and can work quite
differently from other items of their type. Specific magic
armor and weapons can’t gain property runes, but you
can add or improve their fundamental runes.
RUNE TRANSFER EXAMPLES
You could transfer a flaming rune from a +1 striking
flaming greatsword to a +2 striking longsword, resulting
in a +2 striking flaming longsword and a +1 striking
greatsword. You could swap the weapon potency runes
from a +1 longsword and a +2 greatsword, resulting in a
+2 longsword and a +1 greatsword. However, you couldn’t
swap a +1 weapon potency rune from one weapon with a
flaming property rune from another weapon, as the two
runes don’t have the same form.
When transferring a rune to an item that can hold
multiple property runes, you can decide whether you
transfer a single rune or swap runes between the items.
For example, a +2 weapon can hold two property runes. If
you transferred a flaming rune from a +1 striking flaming
rapier to a +2 striking frost warhammer, you would
decide whether you wanted to end up with a +1 striking
rapier and a +2 striking flaming frost warhammer or a +1
striking frost rapier and a +2 striking flaming warhammer.
Fundamental Armor Runes
ARMOR POTENCY
RUNE 5+
ABJURATION
 MAGICAL
Usage etched onto armor
Magic wards deflect attacks. Increase the armor’s item bonus
to AC by 1. The armor can be etched with one property rune.
You can upgrade the armor potency rune already etched
on a suit of armor to a stronger version, increasing the
values of the existing rune to those of the new rune. You
must have the formula of the stronger rune to do so, and
the Price of the upgrade is the difference between the two
runes’ Prices.
Type +1 armor potency; Level 5; Price 160 gp; Craft
Requirements You are an expert in Crafting.
Type +2 armor potency; Level 11; Price 1,060 gp; Craft
Requirements You are a master in Crafting.
Increase the armor’s item bonus to AC by 2, and the armor can
be etched with two property runes.
Type +3 armor potency; Level 18; Price 20,560 gp; Craft
Requirements You are legendary in Crafting.
Increase the armor’s item bonus to AC by 3, and the armor can
be etched with three property runes.
RESILIENT
RUNE 8+
ABJURATION
 MAGICAL
Usage etched onto armor
Resilient runes imbue armor with additional protective magic.
This grants the wearer a +1 item bonus to saving throws.
You can upgrade the resilient rune already etched on a suit
of armor to a stronger version, increasing the values of the
existing rune to those of the new rune. You must have the
formula of the stronger rune to do so, and the Price of the
upgrade is the difference between the two runes’ Prices.
Type resilient; Level 8; Price 340 gp
Type greater resilient; Level 14; Price 3,440 gp
The armor grants a +2 item bonus to saving throws.
Type major resilient; Level 20; Price 49,440 gp
The armor grants a +3 item bonus to saving throws.
Fundamental Weapon Runes
STRIKING
RUNE 4+
EVOCATION
 MAGICAL
Usage etched onto a weapon
A striking rune stores destructive magic in the weapon,
increasing the weapon damage dice it deals to two instead of
one. For instance, a +1 striking dagger would deal 2d4 damage
instead of 1d4 damage.
You can upgrade the striking rune already etched on a
weapon to a stronger version, increasing the values of the
existing rune to those of the new rune. You must have the
formula of the stronger rune to do so, and the Price of the
upgrade is the difference between the two runes’ Prices.
Type striking; Level 4; Price 65 gp
Type greater striking; Level 12; Price 1,065 gp
The weapon deals three weapon damage dice.
Type major striking; Level 19; Price 31,065 gp
The weapon deals four weapon damage dice.
WEAPON POTENCY
RUNE 2+
EVOCATION
 MAGICAL
Usage etched onto a weapon
Magical enhancements make this weapon strike true. Attack
rolls with this weapon gain a +1 item bonus, and the weapon
can be etched with one property rune.
You can upgrade the weapon potency rune already
etched on a weapon to a stronger version, increasing the
values of the existing rune to those of the new rune. You
must have the formula of the stronger rune to do so, and
the Price of the upgrade is the difference between the two
runes’ Prices.
Type +1 weapon potency; Level 2; Price 35 gp; Craft
Requirements You are an expert in Crafting.
Type +2 weapon potency; Level 10; Price 935 gp; Craft
Requirements You are a master in Crafting.
The item bonus to attack rolls is +2, and the weapon can be
etched with two property runes.
Type +3 weapon potency; Level 16; Price 8,935 gp; Craft
Requirements You are legendary in Crafting.
The item bonus to attack rolls is +3, and the weapon can be
etched with three property runes.
581
11
Crafting & Treasure
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Skills
Feats
Equipment
Spells
The Age of
Lost OMENS
Playing the
Game
Game
mastering
Crafting
& Treasure
Appendix
