ILLUSORY CREATURE
SPELL 2
AUDITORY
ILLUSION
VISUAL
Traditions arcane, occult
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal
Range 500 feet
Duration sustained
You create an illusory image of a Large or smaller creature. It
generates the appropriate sounds, smells, and feels believable
to the touch. If you and the image are ever farther than 500
feet apart, the spell ends.
The image can’t speak, but you can use your actions to
speak through the creature, with the spell disguising your
voice as appropriate. You might need to attempt a Deception
or Performance check to mimic the creature, as determined
by the GM. This is especially likely if you’re trying to imitate a
specific person and engage with someone that person knows.
In combat, the illusion can use 2 actions per turn, which it
uses when you Sustain the Spell. It uses your spell attack roll
for attack rolls and your spell DC for its AC. Its saving throw
modifiers are equal to your spell DC – 10. It is substantial
enough that it can flank other creatures. If the image is hit by
an attack or fails a save, the spell ends.
The illusion can cause damage by making the target believe
the illusion’s attacks are real, but it cannot otherwise directly
affect the physical world. If the illusory creature hits with
a Strike, the target takes mental damage equal to 1d4 plus
your spellcasting ability modifier. This is a mental effect.
The illusion’s Strikes are nonlethal. If the damage doesn’t
correspond to the image of the monster—for example, if an
illusory Large dragon deals only 5 damage—the GM might
allow the target to attempt a Perception check to disbelieve
the spell as a free action. Any relevant resistances and
weaknesses apply if the target thinks they do, as judged
by the GM. For example, if the illusion wields a warhammer
and attacks a creature resistant to bludgeoning damage, the
creature would take less mental damage. However, illusory
damage does not deactivate regeneration or trigger other
effects that require a certain damage type. The GM should
track illusory damage dealt by the illusion.
Any creature that touches the image or uses the Seek
action to examine it can attempt to disbelieve your illusion.
When a creature disbelieves the illusion, it recovers from half
the damage it had taken from it (if any) and doesn’t take any
further damage from it.
Heightened (+1) The damage of the image’s Strikes increases
by 1d4, and the maximum size of creature you can create
increases by one (to a maximum of Gargantuan).
ILLUSORY DISGUISE
SPELL 1
ILLUSION
VISUAL
Traditions arcane, occult
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal
Duration 1 hour
You create an illusion that causes you to appear as another
creature of the same body shape, and with roughly similar height
(within 6 inches) and weight (within 50 pounds), as yourself.
The disguise is typically good enough to hide your identity,
but not to impersonate a specific individual. The spell doesn’t
change your voice, scent, or mannerisms. You can change the
appearance of your clothing and worn items, such as making
your armor look like a dress. Held items are unaffected, and any
worn item you remove returns to its true appearance.
Casting illusory disguise counts as setting up a disguise for
the Impersonate use of Deception; it ignores any circumstance
penalties you might take for disguising yourself as a dissimilar
creature, it gives you a +4 status bonus to Deception checks to
prevent others from seeing through your disguise, and you add
your level even if you’re untrained. You can Dismiss this spell.
Heightened (2nd) The spell also disguises your voice and
scent, and it gains the auditory trait.
Heightened (3rd) You can appear as any creature of the
same size, even a specific individual. You must have seen an
individual to take on their appearance. The spell also disguises
your voice and scent, and it gains the auditory trait.
ILLUSORY OBJECT
SPELL 1
ILLUSION
VISUAL
Traditions arcane, occult
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal
Range 500 feet; Area 20-foot burst
Duration 10 minutes
You create an illusory visual image of a stationary object.
The entire image must fit within the spell’s area. The object
appears to animate naturally, but it doesn’t make sounds or
generate smells. For example, water would appear to pour
down an illusory waterfall, but it would be silent.
Any creature that touches the image or uses the Seek action
to examine it can attempt to disbelieve your illusion.
Heightened (2nd) Your image makes appropriate sounds,
generates normal smells, and feels right to the touch. The spell
gains the auditory trait. The duration increases to 1 hour.
Heightened (5th) As the 2nd-level version, but the duration
is unlimited.
ILLUSORY SCENE
SPELL 5
AUDITORY
ILLUSION
VISUAL
Traditions arcane, occult
Cast 10 minutes (somatic, verbal)
Range 500 feet; Area 30-foot burst
Duration 1 hour
You form an imaginary scene that includes up to 10 discrete
creatures or objects of various sizes, all of which must be
within the spell’s area. These elements generate appropriate
sounds and smells, and they feel right to the touch. Elements
of an illusory scene are incapable of speech. Unlike with the
illusory creature spell, creatures in your scene lack combat
abilities and statistics. Your scene doesn’t include changes to
the environment around it, though you can place your scene
within the illusory environment of a hallucinatory terrain spell.
When you create the scene, you can choose to have it be
static or follow a program. Though a static scene is stationary, it
includes basic natural movement. For example, wind blowing on
345
7
SPELLS
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Skills
Feats
Equipment
Spells
The Age of
Lost OMENS
Playing the
Game
Game
mastering
Crafting
& Treasure
Appendix
