BREATH OF LIFE
SPELL 5
HEALING
NECROMANCY
POSITIVE
Traditions divine
Cast [reaction] verbal; Trigger A living creature within range would die.
Range 60 feet; Targets the triggering creature
Your blessing revives a creature at the moment of its death.
You prevent the target from dying and restore Hit Points to the
target equal to 4d8 plus your spellcasting ability modifier. You
can’t use breath of life if the triggering effect was disintegrate
or a death effect.
BURNING HANDS
SPELL 1
EVOCATION
FIRE
Traditions arcane, primal
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal
Area 15-foot cone
Saving Throw basic Reflex
Gouts of flame rush from your hands. You deal 2d6 fire
damage to creatures in the area.
Heightened (+1) The damage increases by 2d6.
CALM EMOTIONS
SPELL 2
EMOTION
ENCHANTMENT
INCAPACITATION
MENTAL
Traditions divine, occult
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal
Range 120 feet; Area 10-foot burst
Saving Throw Will; Duration sustained up to 1 minute
You forcibly calm creatures in the area, soothing them into a
nonviolent state; each creature must attempt a Will save.
Critical Success The creature is unaffected.
Success Calming urges impose a –1 status penalty to the
creature’s attack rolls.
Failure Any emotion effects that would affect the creature
are suppressed and the creature can’t use hostile actions.
If the target is subject to hostility from any other creature,
it ceases to be affected by calm emotions.
Critical Failure As failure, but hostility doesn’t end the effect.
CATACLYSM
SPELL 10
ACID
AIR
COLD
EARTH
ELECTRICITY
EVOCATION
FIRE
WATER
Traditions arcane, primal
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal
Range 1,000 feet; Area 60-foot burst
Saving Throw basic Reflex
You call upon the unimaginable power of world-ending
cataclysms, ripping a small piece of each cataclysm and
combining them together into one horrifically powerful attack.
The following effects come down upon all creatures in the
area. Treat the resistances of creatures in the area as if they
were 10 lower for the purpose of determining the cataclysm’s
damage. Each creature attempts one basic Reflex save that
applies to all six types of damage.
•	 Flesh-dissolving acid rain deals 3d10 acid damage.
•	 A roaring earthquake shakes and bludgeons creatures
on the ground, dealing 3d10 bludgeoning damage.
•	 A blast of freezing wind deals 3d10 cold damage.
•	 Incredible lightning lashes the area, dealing 3d10
electricity damage.
•	 Beating winds churn across the sky, dealing 3d10
bludgeoning damage to creatures flying in the area.
•	 An instant tsunami sweeps over creatures in the area,
dealing 3d10 bludgeoning damage with the water trait
(doubled for creatures swimming in the area).
•	 A massive wildfire burns in a sudden inferno, dealing
3d10 fire damage.
CHAIN LIGHTNING
SPELL 6
ELECTRICITY
EVOCATION
Traditions arcane, primal
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal
Range 500 feet; Targets 1 creature, plus any number of
additional creatures
Saving Throw Reflex
You discharge a powerful bolt of lightning at the target, dealing
8d12 electricity damage. The target must attempt a basic
Reflex save. The electricity arcs to another creature within 30
feet of the first target, jumps to another creature within 30
feet of that target, and so on. You can end the chain at any
point. You can’t target the same creature more than once, and
you must have line of effect to all targets. Roll the damage
only once, and apply it to each target (halving or doubling as
appropriate for its saving throw outcome). The chain ends if
any one of the targets critically succeeds at its save.
Heightened (+1) The damage increases by 1d12.
CHARM
SPELL 1
EMOTION
ENCHANTMENT
INCAPACITATION
MENTAL
Traditions arcane, occult, primal
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal
Range 30 feet; Targets 1 creature
Saving Throw Will; Duration 1 hour
To the target, your words are honey and your visage seems
bathed in a dreamy haze. It must attempt a Will save, with a +4
circumstance bonus if you or your allies recently threatened it
or used hostile actions against it.
You can Dismiss the spell. If you use hostile actions against
the target, the spell ends. When the spell ends, the target
doesn’t necessarily realize it was charmed unless its friendship
with you or the actions you convinced it to take clash with
its expectations, meaning you could potentially convince the
target to continue being your friend via mundane means.
Critical Success The target is unaffected and aware you tried
to charm it.
Success The target is unaffected but thinks your spell was
something harmless instead of charm, unless it identifies
the spell (usually with Identify Magic).
Failure The target’s attitude becomes friendly toward you. If it
was friendly, it becomes helpful. It can’t use hostile actions
against you.
Critical Failure The target’s attitude becomes helpful toward
you, and it can’t use hostile actions against you.
Core Rulebook
322
