Heightened (4th) The duration lasts until the next time you
make your daily preparations.
Heightened (8th) The duration lasts until the next time
you make your daily preparations, and you can target up
to 10 creatures.
CHILL TOUCH
CANTRIP 1
ATTACK
CANTRIP
NECROMANCY
NEGATIVE
Traditions arcane, divine, occult
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal
Range touch; Targets 1 living or undead creature
Saving Throw Fortitude
Siphoning negative energy into yourself, your hand radiates a
pale darkness. Your touch weakens the living and disorients
undead, possibly even causing them to flee. The effect depends
on whether the target is living or undead.
•	 Living Creature The spell deals negative damage equal
to 1d4 plus your spellcasting modifier. The target
attempts a basic Fortitude save, but is also enfeebled 1
for 1 round on a critical failure.
•	 Undead Creature The target is flat-footed for 1 round
on a failed Fortitude save. On a critical failure, the
target is also fleeing for 1 round unless it succeeds at a
Will save.
Heightened (+1) The negative damage to living creatures
increases by 1d4.
CHILLING DARKNESS
SPELL 3
ATTACK
COLD
DARKNESS
EVOCATION
EVIL
Traditions divine
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal
Range 120 feet; Targets 1 creature
You shoot an utterly cold ray of darkness tinged with unholy
energy. Make a ranged spell attack against the target. You
deal 5d6 cold damage, plus 5d6 evil damage if the target is
a celestial.
If the ray passes through an area of magical light or targets
a creature affected by magical light, chilling darkness attempts
to counteract the light. If you need to determine whether
the ray passes through an area of light, draw a line between
yourself and the spell’s target.
Critical Success The target takes double damage.
Success The target takes full damage.
Heightened (+1) The cold damage increases by 2d6, and the
evil damage against celestials increases by 2d6.
CHROMATIC WALL
SPELL 5
ABJURATION
Traditions arcane, occult
Cast [three-actions] material, somatic, verbal
Range 120 feet
Duration 10 minutes
You create an opaque wall of light in a single vibrant color.
The wall is straight and vertical, stretching 60 feet long and
30 feet high. If the wall would pass through a creature, the
spell is lost. The wall sheds bright light for 20 feet on each
side, and dim light for the next 20 feet. You can ignore the
wall’s effects.
Roll 1d4 to determine the color of the wall. Each color has a
particular effect on items, effects, or creatures that attempt to
pass through. Chromatic wall can’t be counteracted normally;
rather, each color is automatically counteracted when targeted
by a specific spell, even if that spell’s level is lower than that
of chromatic wall.
1.	 Red The wall destroys ranged weapon ammunition
(such as arrows and crossbow bolts) that would pass
through, and it deals 20 fire damage to anyone
passing through, with a basic Reflex save. Cone of
cold can counteract a red chromatic wall.
2.	Orange The wall destroys thrown weapons that would
pass through, and it deals 25 acid damage to anyone
passing through, with a basic Reflex save. Gust of wind
can counteract an orange chromatic wall.
3.	Yellow The wall stops acid, cold, electricity, fire, force,
negative, positive, and sonic effects from passing
through, and it deals 30 electricity damage to anyone
passing through, with a basic Reflex save. Disintegrate
can counteract a yellow chromatic wall.
4.	Green The wall stops toxins, gases, and breath
weapons from passing through. It deals 10 poison
damage to anyone passing through and makes
them enfeebled 1 for 1 minute. A basic Fortitude
save reduces the damage and negates the enfeebled
condition on a success. Passwall can counteract a
green chromatic wall.
MAGIC AND MORALITY
While magic allows you to perform wondrous acts in
the game, it can be used for terrible purposes. While
some spells are obviously vile or have the evil trait and a
direct connection to the profane, other spells can be used
for good or ill. Using magic does not free you from the
morality of the outcome.
Nowhere is this more true than when it comes to
enchantment spells, especially those used to compel a
character to do something. These spells can remove the
power of choice from a character and can very easily
be used in ways that are evil. Dominating an ogre and
forcing him to abandon his guard post is not necessarily
evil, but using that same spell to force a merchant to give
you all of his wares certainly is. Using a spell for an evil
purpose can cause a player character’s alignment to shift
to evil, with the ultimate judgment of whether a player is
using a spell for an evil purpose left up to the GM.
Regardless of in-game effects, all players should take
care when using such spells. These effects can negatively
affect people at the table, as they might create situations
that echo truly awful experiences players might have
had, creating uncomfortable or hostile environments.
Players and GMs should work to prevent these situations
so everyone can focus on having fun at the table.
323
7
SPELLS
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Skills
Feats
Equipment
Spells
The Age of
Lost OMENS
Playing the
Game
Game
mastering
Crafting
& Treasure
Appendix
