Size
Your familiar is Tiny.
Senses
Your familiar has low-light vision and can gain additional
senses from familiar abilities. It can communicate
empathically with you as long as it’s within 1 mile of you,
sharing emotions. It doesn’t understand or speak languages
normally, but it can gain speech from a familiar ability.
Movement
Your familiar has either a Speed of 25 feet or a swim
Speed of 25 feet (choose one upon gaining the familiar).
It can gain other movement types from familiar abilities.
Familiar and Master Abilities
Each day, you channel your magic into two abilities,
which can be either familiar or master abilities. If your
familiar is an animal that naturally has one of these
abilities (for instance, an owl has a fly Speed), you must
select that ability. Your familiar can’t be an animal that
naturally has more familiar abilities than your daily
maximum familiar abilities.
Familiar Abilities
Amphibious: It gains a swim Speed of 25 feet (or Speed of
25 feet if it already has a swim Speed).
Burrower: It gains a burrow Speed of 5 feet, allowing it
to dig Tiny holes.
Climber: It gains a climb Speed of 25 feet.
Damage Avoidance: Choose one type of save. It takes
no damage when it succeeds at that type of save; this
doesn’t prevent effects other than damage.
Darkvision: It gains darkvision.
Fast Movement: Increase one of the familiar’s Speeds
from 25 feet to 40 feet.
Flier: It gains a fly Speed of 25 feet.
Kinspeech: It can understand and speak with animals
of the same species. To select this, your familiar must be
an animal, it must have the speech ability, and you must
be at least 6th level.
Lab Assistant: It can use your Quick Alchemy action.
You must have Quick Alchemy, and your familiar must
be in your space. This has the same cost and requirement
as if you used it. It must have the manual dexterity
ability to select this.
Manual Dexterity: It can use up to two of its limbs as
if they were hands to use manipulate actions.
Scent: It gains scent (imprecise, 30 feet).
Speech: It understands and speaks a language
you know.
Master Abilities
Cantrip Connection: You can prepare an additional
cantrip, or if you have a repertoire, instead designate a
cantrip to add to your repertoire every time you select
this ability; you can retrain it but can’t otherwise change
it. You must be able to prepare cantrips or add them to
your repertoire to select this.
Extra Reagents: Your familiar grows extra infused
reagents on or in its body. You gain an additional batch
of infused reagents. You must have the infused reagents
ability to select this ability.
Familiar Focus: Once per day, your familiar can use 2
actions with the concentrate trait to regain 1 Focus Point,
up to your usual maximum You must have a focus pool
to select this.
Lifelink: If your familiar would be reduced to 0 HP by
damage, as a reaction with the concentrate trait, you can
take the damage. If you do, you take all the damage and
your familiar takes none. However, if special effects when
a hit damages your familiar (such as snake venom) still
apply to your familiar.
Spell Battery: You gain one additional spell slot at least
3 levels lower than your highest-level spell slot; you
must be able to cast 4th-level spells using spell slots to
select this master ability.
Spell Delivery: If your familiar is in your space,
you can cast a spell with a range of touch, transfer
its power to your familiar, and command the
familiar to deliver the spell. If you do, the familiar
uses its 2 actions for the round to move to a target
of your choice and touch that target. If it doesn’t
reach the target to touch it this turn, the spell has
no effect.
Core Rulebook
218
