TERRIFIED RETREAT
FEAT 7
GENERAL
SKILL
Prerequisites master in Intimidation
When you critically succeed at the Demoralize action, if the
target’s level is lower than yours, the target is fleeing for 1 round.
TITAN WRESTLER
FEAT 1
GENERAL
SKILL
Prerequisites trained in Athletics
You can attempt to Disarm, Grapple, Shove, or Trip creatures
up to two sizes larger than you, or up to three sizes larger than
you if you’re legendary in Athletics.
TOUGHNESS
FEAT 1
GENERAL
You can withstand more punishment than most before
succumbing. Increase your maximum Hit Points by your level.
You reduce the DC of recovery checks by 1 (page 459).
TRAIN ANIMAL
FEAT 1
DOWNTIME
GENERAL
MANIPULATE
SKILL
Prerequisites trained in Nature
You spend time teaching an animal to do a certain action. You
can either select a basic action the animal already knows how to
do (typically those listed in the Command an Animal action on
page 249) or attempt to teach the animal a new basic action. The
GM determines the DC of any check required and the amount
of time the training takes (usually at least a week). It’s usually
impossible to teach an animal a trick that uses critical thinking.
If you’re expert, master, or legendary in Nature, you might be
able to train more unusual creatures, at the GM’s discretion.
Success The animal learns the action. If it was an action the
animal already knew, you can Command the Animal to take
that action without attempting a Nature check. If it was a
new basic action, add that action to the actions the animal
can take when Commanded, but you must still roll.
Failure The animal doesn’t learn the trick.
TRICK MAGIC ITEM [one-action]
FEAT 1
GENERAL
MANIPULATE
SKILL
Prerequisites trained in Arcana, Nature, Occultism, or Religion
You examine a magic item you normally couldn’t use in an effort
to fool it and activate it temporarily. For example, this might allow
a fighter to cast a spell from a wand or allow a wizard to cast a
spell that’s not on the arcane list using a scroll. You must know
what activating the item does, or you can’t attempt to trick it.
Attempt a check using the skill matching the item’s magic
tradition, or matching a tradition that has the spell on its list,
if you’re trying to cast a spell from the item. The relevant skills
are Arcana for arcane, Nature for primal, Occultism for occult,
Religion for divine, or any of the four for an item that has the
magical trait and not a tradition trait. The GM determines the
DC based on the item’s level (possibly adjusted depending on
the item or situation).
If you activate a magic item that requires a spell attack roll
or spell DC and you don’t have the ability to cast spells of the
relevant tradition, use your level as your proficiency bonus and
the highest of your Intelligence, Wisdom, or Charisma modifiers.
If you’re a master in the appropriate skill for the item’s tradition,
you instead use the trained proficiency bonus, and if you’re
legendary, you instead use the expert proficiency bonus.
Success For the rest of the current turn, you can spend actions
to activate the item as if you could normally use it.
Failure You can’t use the item or try to trick it again this turn,
but you can try again on subsequent turns.
Critical Failure You can’t use the item, and you can’t try to
trick it again until your next daily preparations.
UNDERWATER MARAUDER
FEAT 1
GENERAL
SKILL
Prerequisites trained in Athletics
You’ve learned to fight underwater. You are not flat-footed
while in water, and you don’t take the usual penalties for using
a bludgeoning or slashing melee weapon in water.
UNIFIED THEORY
FEAT 15
GENERAL
SKILL
Prerequisites legendary in Arcana
You’ve started to make a meaningful connection about the
common underpinnings of the four traditions of magic and
magical essences, allowing you to understand them all through
an arcane lens. Whenever you use an action or a skill feat that
requires a Nature, Occultism, or Religion check, depending on
the magic tradition, you can use Arcana instead. If you would
normally take a penalty or have a higher DC for using Arcana
on other magic (such as when using Identify Magic), you no
longer do so.
UNMISTAKABLE LORE
FEAT 2
GENERAL
SKILL
Prerequisites expert in Lore
You never get information about your areas of expertise wrong.
When you Recall Knowledge using any Lore subcategory in
which you’re trained, if you roll a critical failure, you get a failure
instead. If you’re a master in a Lore subcategory, on a critical
success, you gain even more information or context than usual.
UNTRAINED IMPROVISATION
FEAT 3
GENERAL
You’ve learned how to handle situations when you’re out of
your depth. Your proficiency bonus to untrained skill checks
is equal to half your level instead of +0. If you’re 7th level
or higher, the bonus increases to your full level instead. This
doesn’t allow you to use the skill’s trained actions.
VIRTUOSIC PERFORMER
FEAT 1
GENERAL
SKILL
Prerequisites trained in Performance
You have exceptional talent with one type of performance. You
gain a +1 circumstance bonus when making a certain type of
performance. If you are a master in Performance, this bonus
increases to +2. Select one of the following specialties and apply
Core Rulebook
268
