SAMPLE RANGER
that are hidden from you (unless you’re flat-footed to them for
reasons other than the hidden condition), and you need only a
successful DC 5 flat check to target a hidden creature.
While you’re adjacent to an undetected creature of your
level or lower, it is instead only hidden from you.
DEADLY AIM [one-action]
FEAT 8
OPEN
RANGER
Prerequisites weapon specialization
You aim for your prey’s weak spots, making your shot more
challenging but dealing more damage if you hit. Make a
ranged Strike against your hunted prey at a –2 penalty. You
gain a +4 circumstance bonus to damage on that Strike. This
bonus increases to +6 at 11th level and +8 at 15th level.
HAZARD FINDER
FEAT 8
RANGER
You have an intuitive ability to sense hazards. You gain a +1
circumstance bonus to Perception checks to find traps and
hazards, to AC against their attacks, and to saves against
their effects. You can find hazards that would normally
require you to Search even if you aren’t Searching.
POWERFUL SNARES
FEAT 8
RANGER
Prerequisites master in Crafting, Snare Specialist
Your snares are particularly difficult for enemies to avoid.
When you set a snare, the saving throw DC for that snare is
equal to its normal DC or your class DC, whichever is higher.
TERRAIN MASTER
FEAT 8
RANGER
Prerequisites wild stride, master in Survival, Favored Terrain
You adapt to your surroundings in any natural terrain. You
can spend 1 hour practicing in your current terrain in order
to make it your favored terrain, replacing your current
favored terrain temporarily. If you spend a full day out
of the new favored terrain, your favored terrain reverts
back to your original choice when you took the Favored
Terrain feat.
WARDEN’S BOON [one-action]
FEAT 8
RANGER
By pointing out vulnerabilities, you grant the benefits listed
in Hunt Prey and your hunter’s edge benefit to an ally until
the end of their next turn. Depending on whether you call
out or use gestures, this action gains either the auditory or
visual trait.
10TH LEVEL
CAMOUFLAGE
FEAT 10
RANGER
Prerequisites master in Stealth
You alter your appearance to blend in to the wilderness. In
natural terrain, you can Sneak even if you’re observed.
ANIMAL RANGER
Sharing a powerful bond, you and your beloved
animal explore the wilds and fight in tandem.
ABILITY SCORES
Prioritize Dexterity, followed by Constitution and
Wisdom. Take Strength if you want to deal more damage.
SKILLS
Acrobatics, Athletics, Medicine, Nature, Stealth, Survival
HUNTER’S EDGE
Outwit
STARTING FEAT
Animal Companion
HIGHER-LEVEL FEATS
Companion’s Cry (4th), Mature Animal Companion
(6th), Incredible Companion (10th), Side by Side (12th),
Specialized Companion (16th), Masterful Companion (18th)
Core Rulebook
174
