a mighty boulder tumbles through a subterranean cavern. Take a Step into the square of
a foe that is your size or smaller, and the foe must move into the empty space directly
behind it. The foe must move even if doing so places it in harm’s way. The foe can attempt
a Fortitude saving throw against your Athletics DC to block your Step. If the foe attempts
this saving throw, unless it critically succeeds, it takes bludgeoning damage equal to your
level plus your Strength modifier.
If the foe can’t move into an empty space (if it is surrounded by solid objects or other
creatures, for example), your Boulder Roll has no effect.
DWARVEN WEAPON CUNNING
FEAT 5
DWARF
Prerequisites Dwarven Weapon Familiarity
You’ve learned cunning techniques to get the best effects out of your dwarven weapons.
Whenever you critically hit using a battle axe, pick, warhammer, or a dwarf weapon, you
apply the weapon’s critical specialization effect.
9TH LEVEL
MOUNTAIN’S STOUTNESS
FEAT 9
DWARF
Your hardiness lets you withstand more punishment than most before going down.
Increase your maximum Hit Points by your level. You also decrease the DC of recovery
checks when you have the dying condition by 1.
If you also have the Toughness feat, the Hit Points gained from it and this feat
are cumulative, and you decrease the DC of recovery
checks by 4.
STONEWALKER
FEAT 9
DWARF
You have a deep reverence for and connection
to stone. You gain meld into stone as a 3rd‑level
divine innate spell that you can cast once
per day.
If you have the Stonecunning dwarf ancestry
feat, you can attempt to find unusual stonework and
stonework traps that require legendary proficiency
in Perception. If you have both Stonecunning and
legendary proficiency in Perception, when
you’re not Seeking and the GM rolls a secret
check for you to notice unusual stonework,
you keep the bonus from Stonecunning and
don’t take the –2 circumstance penalty.
13TH LEVEL
DWARVEN WEAPON EXPERTISE
FEAT 13
DWARF
Prerequisites Dwarven Weapon Familiarity
Your dwarven affinity blends with your training,
granting you great skill with dwarven weapons.
Whenever you gain a class feature that grants you
expert or greater proficiency in certain weapons, you also
gain that proficiency for battle axes, picks, warhammers,
and all dwarven weapons in which you are trained.
DWARVEN
ADVENTURERS
Dwarven adventurers tend to
work as treasure hunters or
sellswords. They often leave their
citadels and subterranean cities
in search of wealth to enrich their
homeland or to reclaim long-lost
dwarven treasures or lands taken
by the enemies of their kin.
Typical dwarven backgrounds
include acolyte, artisan, merchant,
miner, and warrior. Dwarves excel
at many of the martial classes,
such as barbarian, fighter, monk,
and ranger, but they also make
excellent clerics and druids.
2
Ancestries & backgrounds
37
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Skills
Feats
Equipment
Spells
The Age of
Lost OMENS
Playing the
Game
Game
mastering
Crafting
& Treasure
Appendix
