that was submerged up to its neck is pulled under and has to
hold its breath to avoid suffocation (page 478).
A creature in the quicksand can attempt a DC 20 Athletics
check to Swim to either raise itself by one step if it’s submerged
to its neck or worse, or to move 5 feet if it’s submerged only
up to its waist. On a critical failure, the creature is pulled down
one step. A creature that Swims out of the quicksand escapes
the hazard and is prone in a space adjacent to the quicksand
patch. Other creatures can Aid the creature, typically by using
a rope or similar aid, or attempt to pull the creature out with
their own DC 20 Athletics check, with the same results as if
the creature attempted the check.
Reset The hazard still submerges anyone who walks in, but
the surface doesn’t become hidden again until it settles over
the course of 24 hours.
SPINNING BLADE PILLAR 
HAZARD 4
COMPLEX
MECHANICAL
TRAP
Stealth +11 (trained) or DC 26 (expert) to notice the control panel
Description A metal pole with three razor-sharp spinning
blades is hidden in the floor, connected to trigger plates in up
to eight floor tiles and a hidden control panel within 30 feet.
Disable Thievery DC 21 (trained) twice on the pillar, or Thievery
DC 19 (expert) once on the control panel deactivates the
whole trap. Breaking the control panel prevents anyone
from disabling the trap using the control panel and prevents
the trap from deactivating automatically (see Reset below).
AC 21; Fort +10, Ref +12
Pillar Hardness 12, Pillar HP 48 (BT 24); Panel Hardness
5, Panel HP 20 (BT 10); Immunities critical hits, object
immunities, precision damage
Rising Pillar [reaction] (attack); Trigger A creature steps on one of
the trapped floor tiles. Effect The trap pops up in a grid
intersection and makes a spinning blade attack against
one adjacent creature (if any), then rolls initiative.
Routine (3 actions) The trap uses its first action
to make a spinning blade Strike against each
adjacent creature, its second action to move
straight in a random direction (roll 1d4 to
determine the direction), and its third action
to make a spinning blade Strike against
each adjacent creature. This trap doesn’t
take a multiple attack penalty.
Speed 10 feet
Melee [one-action] spinning blade +12, Damage
2d10+5 slashing
Reset The trap deactivates and resets
after 1 minute.
WHEEL OF MISERY 
HAZARD 6
COMPLEX
MAGICAL
MECHANICAL
TRAP
Stealth +16 (expert) to detect the
magical sensor; noticing the wheel
has a DC of 0
Description An ornate wheel set into a
wall—divided into six segments with colored
runes on each—is controlled by a magical sensor that detects
any creature within 100 feet in front of it.
Disable Thievery DC 26 (expert) on the wheel to stop it from
spinning, Thievery DC 22 (master) to erase each rune, or
dispel magic (4th level; counteract DC 22) to counteract
each rune
AC 24; Fort +15, Ref +13
Hardness 14, HP 56 (BT 28); Immunities critical hits, object
immunities, precision damage
Wheel Spin [reaction] Trigger A creature enters the sensor’s detection
area. Effect The wheel begins to spin and rolls initiative.
Routine (2 actions) On its initiative, the trap uses its first action
to spin, then stops. Roll 1d6 to determine which segment is
topmost when the wheel stops spinning. The wheel uses its
second action to replicate the spell listed for that segment
(3rd level, DC 24, spell attack roll +14). This spell’s target is
centered on or otherwise includes the nearest creature in the
area. This increases the spell’s range to 100 feet if necessary.
Any spell cast by this trap is arcane.
1	 sleep
2	 paralyze
3	 lightning bolt (100-foot line)
4	 blindness
5	 acid arrow
6	 ray of enfeeblement
Reset The trap deactivates and resets if 1 minute passes
without any creature moving within range of its sensor.
GAME MASTERING
527
10
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Skills
Feats
Equipment
Spells
The Age of
Lost OMENS
Playing the
Game
Game
mastering
Crafting
& Treasure
Appendix
