SPIRITUAL GUARDIAN
SPELL 5
ATTACK
ABJURATION
FORCE
Traditions divine
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal; Requirements You have a deity.
Range 120 feet
Duration sustained up to 1 minute
A Medium guardian made of magical force appears and
attacks foes you designate within range. The spiritual
guardian is translucent and appears to be holding your deity’s
favored weapon.
When you Cast the Spell, the spiritual guardian appears in
an unoccupied space next to a foe of your choice within range
and makes a Strike against it. Each time you Sustain the
Spell, you can move the spiritual guardian to an unoccupied
space next to a target within range (if necessary) and make
a Strike with it. The guardian uses and contributes to your
multiple attack penalty. Alternatively, when you Sustain the
Spell, you can have the guardian move adjacent to an ally
and protect that ally. If you do, each time the ally would take
damage, the guardian takes the first 10 damage instead of
your ally. It continues to do so until you move the guardian
to attack an enemy or defend a different ally, or until the
guardian is destroyed (it has 50 Hit Points and can’t recover
Hit Points by any means). The guardian can’t usually take
damage except when protecting an ally, though disintegrate
automatically destroys it if it hits the spiritual guardian’s AC
of 25.
The guardian’s Strikes are melee spell attacks. Regardless
of the appearance of the guardian’s weapon, the guardian
deals force damage equal to 2d8 plus your spellcasting ability
modifier, but you can deal damage of the type normally dealt
by the weapon it holds instead of force damage. No other traits
or statistics of the weapon apply, and even a ranged weapon
attacks adjacent creatures only. Despite making a spell attack,
the spiritual guardian’s weapon is a weapon for the purposes
of triggers, resistances, and so forth.
The guardian takes up space and allies can use it when
flanking, but it doesn’t have any other attributes a creature
would normally have aside from Hit Points, and creatures
can move through its space without hindrance. The guardian
can’t make any attack other than its Strike, and feats or
spells that affect weapons or enhance allies do not apply to
the guardian.
Heightened (+2) The guardian’s damage increases by 1d8, and
its Hit Points increase by 20.
SPIRITUAL WEAPON
SPELL 2
ATTACK
EVOCATION
FORCE
Traditions divine, occult
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal; Requirements You have a deity.
Range 120 feet
Duration sustained up to 1 minute
A weapon made of pure magical force materializes and
attacks foes you designate within range. This weapon
has a ghostly appearance and manifests as your deity’s
favored weapon.
When you cast the spell, the weapon appears next to a foe
you choose within range and makes a Strike against it. Each
time you Sustain the Spell, you can move the weapon to a new
target within range (if needed) and Strike with it. The spiritual
weapon uses and contributes to your multiple attack penalty.
The weapon’s Strikes are melee spell attacks. Regardless
of its appearance, the weapon deals force damage equal to
1d8 plus your spellcasting ability modifier. You can deal
damage of the type normally dealt by the weapon instead
of force damage (or any of the available damage types for a
versatile weapon). No other statistics or traits of the weapon
apply, and even a ranged weapon attacks adjacent creatures
only. Despite making a spell attack, the spiritual weapon is
a weapon for purposes of triggers, resistances, and so forth.
The weapon doesn’t take up space, grant flanking, or have
any other attributes a creature would. The weapon can’t make
any attack other than its Strike, and feats or spells that affect
weapons do not apply to it.
Heightened (+2) The weapon’s damage increases by 1d8.
STABILIZE
CANTRIP 1
CANTRIP
HEALING
NECROMANCY
POSITIVE
Traditions divine, primal
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal
Range 30 feet; Targets 1 dying creature
Positive energy shuts death’s door. The target loses the dying
condition, though it remains unconscious at 0 Hit Points.
STATUS
SPELL 2
DETECTION
DIVINATION
Traditions divine, occult, primal
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal
Range touch; Targets 1 willing living creature
Duration 1 day
As long as you and the target are on the same plane of
existence and both alive, you remain aware of its present
state. You know the target’s direction from you, distance from
you, and any conditions affecting it.
Heightened (4th) The spell’s range increases to 30 feet, and
you can target up to 10 creatures.
STINKING CLOUD
SPELL 3
CONJURATION
POISON
Traditions arcane, primal
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal
Range 120 feet; Area 20-foot burst
Saving Throw Fortitude; Duration 1 minute
You create a cloud of putrid mist in the area. The cloud
functions as obscuring mist (page 355) except it sickens
creatures that end their turns within the cloud. (The concealed
condition is not a poison effect.)
Critical Success The creature is unaffected.
Success The creature is sickened 1.
Failure The creature is sickened 1 and slowed 1 while in the cloud.
Critical Failure The creature is sickened 2 and slowed 1 until
it leaves the cloud.
373
7
SPELLS
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Skills
Feats
Equipment
Spells
The Age of
Lost OMENS
Playing the
Game
Game
mastering
Crafting
& Treasure
Appendix
