Swapping Spells in Your Repertoire
As you gain new spells in your repertoire, you might
want to replace some of the spells you previously learned.
Each time you gain a level and learn new spells, you can
swap out one of your old spells for a different spell of the
same level. This spell can be a cantrip. You can also swap
out spells by retraining during downtime (page 481).
Composition Spells
You can infuse your performances with magic to create
unique effects called compositions. Compositions are
a special type of spell that often require you to use the
Performance skill when casting them. Composition spells
are a type of focus spell. It costs 1 Focus Point to cast a focus
spell, and you start with a focus pool of 1 Focus Point. You
refill your focus pool during your daily preparations, and
you can regain 1 Focus Point by spending 10 minutes using
the Refocus activity to perform, write a new composition,
or otherwise engage your muse.
Focus spells are automatically heightened to half your
level rounded up, much like cantrips. Focus spells don’t
require spell slots, and you can’t cast them using spell
slots. Taking feats can give you more focus spells and
increase the size of your focus pool, though your focus
pool can never hold more than 3 Focus Points. The full
rules for focus spells appear on page 300.
You learn the counter performance composition spell
(page 386), protecting against auditory and visual effects.
Composition Cantrips
Composition cantrips are special composition spells that
don’t cost Focus Points, so you can use them as often as you
like. Composition cantrips are in addition to the cantrips
you choose from the occult list. Generally, only feats can
give you more composition cantrips. Unlike other
cantrips, you can’t swap out composition cantrips
gained from bard feats at a later level, unless you
swap out the specific feat via retraining (page 481).
You learn the inspire courage composition
cantrip (page 386), which boosts your allies’
attacks, damage, and defense against fear.
Muses
As a bard, you select one muse at 1st level. This muse leads
you to great things, and might be a physical creature, a
deity, a philosophy, or a captivating mystery.
Enigma
Your muse is a mystery, driving you to uncover the hidden
secrets of the multiverse. If your muse is a creature, it
might be a dragon or otherworldly being; if a deity, it
might be Irori or Nethys. You gain the Bardic Lore feat
and add true strike to your spell repertoire.
Maestro
Your muse is a virtuoso, inspiring you to greater heights.
If it’s a creature, it might be a performance-loving creature
such as a choral angel or lillend azata; if a deity, it might
be Shelyn. As a bard with a maestro muse, you are an
inspiration to your allies and confident of your musical and
oratorical abilities. You gain the Lingering Composition feat
and add soothe to your spell repertoire.
Polymath
Your muse is a jack of all trades, flitting between skills and
pursuits. If it’s is a creature, it might be an eclectic creature
like a fey; if a deity, it might be Desna or Calistria. As a bard
with a polymath muse, you are interested in a wide array of
topics but rarely dedicated to any one, and you rarely make
up your mind—you want to try everything. You gain the
Versatile Performance feat and add unseen servant to your
spell repertoire.
97
3
CLASSES
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Skills
Feats
Equipment
Spells
The Age of
Lost OMENS
Playing the
Game
Game
mastering
Crafting
& Treasure
Appendix
