advance to stage 2 of the affliction and are subjected to that
effect instead. The stages of an affliction are described below.
Onset
Some afflictions have onset times. For these afflictions, once
you fail your initial save, you don’t gain the effects for the
first stage of the affliction until the onset time has elapsed.
If this entry is absent, you gain the effects for the first stage
(or the second stage on a critical failure) immediately upon
failing the initial saving throw.
Maximum Duration
If an affliction lasts only a limited amount of time, it lists a
maximum duration. Once this duration passes, the affliction
ends. Otherwise, the affliction lasts until you succeed at
enough saves to recover, as described in Stages below.
Stages
An affliction typically has multiple stages, each of which
lists an effect followed by an interval in parentheses.
When you reach a given stage of an affliction, you are
subjected to the effects listed for that stage.
At the end of a stage’s listed interval, you must attempt
a new saving throw. On a success, you reduce the stage
by 1; on a critical success, you reduce the stage by 2. You
are then subjected to the effects of the new stage. If the
affliction’s stage is ever reduced below stage 1, the affliction
ends and you don’t need to attempt further saves unless
you’re exposed to the affliction again.
On a failure, the stage increases by 1; on a critical failure,
the stage increases by 2. You are then subjected to the
effects listed for the new stage. If a failure or critical failure
would increase the stage beyond the highest listed stage, the
affliction instead repeats the effects of the highest stage.
Conditions from Afflictions
An affliction might give you conditions with a longer or
shorter duration than the affliction. For instance, if an
affliction causes you to be drained but has a maximum
duration of 5 minutes, you remain drained even after the
affliction ends, as is normal for the drained condition. Or,
you might succeed at the flat check to remove persistent
damage you took from an ongoing affliction, but you would
still need to attempt saves to remove the affliction itself, and
failing one might give you new persistent damage.
Multiple Exposures
Multiple exposures to the same curse or disease currently
affecting you have no effect. For a poison, however, failing
the initial saving throw against a new exposure increases
the stage by 1 (or by 2 if you critically fail) without
affecting the maximum duration. This is true even if you’re
within the poison’s onset period, though it doesn’t change
the onset length.
Virulent Afflictions
Afflictions with the virulent trait are harder to remove.
You must succeed at two consecutive saves to reduce a
virulent affliction’s stage by 1. A critical success reduces a
virulent affliction’s stage by only 1 instead of by 2.
Counteracting
Some effects try to counteract spells, afflictions, conditions, or
other effects. Counteract checks compare the power of two
forces and determine which defeats the other. Successfully
counteracting an effect ends it unless noted otherwise.
When attempting a counteract check, add the relevant
skill modifier or other appropriate modifier to your check
against the target’s DC. If you’re counteracting an affliction,
AFFLICTION EXAMPLE
To see how a poison works, let’s look at the arsenic
alchemical item (page 550). The item notes that you can’t
reduce your sickened condition while affected by arsenic,
and has the following text for how the affliction works.
Saving Throw DC 18 Fortitude; Onset 10 minutes;
Maximum Duration 5 minutes; Stage 1 1d4 poison
damage and sickened 1 (1 minute); Stage 2 1d6 poison
damage and sickened 2 (1 minute); Stage 3 2d6 poison
damage and sickened 3 (1 minute)
For example, if you drank a glass of wine laced with
arsenic, you would attempt an initial Fortitude save
against the listed DC of 18. If you fail, you advance to
stage 1. Because of the onset time, nothing happens
for 10 minutes, but once this time passes, you take
1d4 poison damage and become sickened 1. As noted,
you’re unable to reduce the sickened condition you
gain from arsenic. The interval of stage 1 is 1 minute (as
shown in parentheses), so you attempt a new save after
1 minute passes. If you succeed, you reduce the stage
by 1, recovering from the poison. If you fail again, the
stage increases by 1 to stage 2, and you take 1d6 poison
damage and become sickened 2.
If your initial save against the arsenic was a critical
failure, you would advance directly to stage 2. After the
10-minute onset time, you would take 1d6 poison damage
and become sickened 2. Succeeding at your second save
would reduce the stage t by 1 to stage 1, and you’d take
only 1d4 poison damage. Failing the second save would
increase by 1 again to stage 3.
If you reach stage 3 of the poison, either by failing
while at stage 2 or critically failing while at stage 1, you’d
take 2d6 poison damage and be sickened 3. If you failed
or critically failed your saving throw while at stage 3, you
would repeat the effects of stage 3.
Since the poison has a maximum duration of 5 minutes,
you recover from it once the 5 minutes pass, no matter
which stage you’re at.
Core Rulebook
458
