SAMPLE CLERIC
to your call. When you cast harm or heal by spending 2
actions, you can get the effects of the 3-action version instead
of the 2-action version.
You can do this with harm if you have harmful font or heal
if you have healing font (or both if you have Versatile Font).
SWIFT BANISHMENT [reaction] 
FEAT 14
CLERIC
Trigger You critically hit a creature that is not on its
home plane.
Requirements You have a banishment spell prepared.
The force of your blow sends your victim back to its home
plane. You expend a banishment spell you have prepared,
affecting the creature you critically hit without needing to
cast the spell. The creature can attempt to resist the spell
as normal.
16TH LEVEL
ETERNAL BANE
FEAT 16
CLERIC
Prerequisites evil alignment
A life of evil has made you a nexus for your deity’s vile power.
You’re continuously surrounded by a bane spell with a spell
level equal to half your level (rounded up). The radius is 15
feet, and you can’t increase it. You can Dismiss the spell; if you
do, it returns automatically after 1 minute.
ETERNAL BLESSING
FEAT 16
CLERIC
Prerequisites good alignment
Your good deeds have brought your deity’s grace to you for
all of eternity. You’re continuously surrounded by a bless
spell with a spell level equal to half your level (rounded
up). The radius is 15 feet, and you can’t increase it. You can
Dismiss the spell; if you do, it returns automatically after
1 minute.
RESURRECTIONIST
FEAT 16
CLERIC
You can cause a creature you bring back from the brink of
death to thrive and continue healing. When you restore Hit
Points to a dying creature or bring a dead creature back to
life and restore Hit Points to it, you grant that creature fast
healing 5 for 1 minute. This fast healing ends if the creature is
knocked unconscious.
18TH LEVEL
DOMAIN WELLSPRING
FEAT 18
CLERIC
Prerequisites Domain Focus
The intensity of your focus grows from the investment you’ve
placed in your domains. If you have spent at least 3 Focus
Points since the last time you Refocused, you recover 3 Focus
Points when you Refocus instead of 1.
PHARASMIN
A follower of the Lady of Graves, you respect the
sanctity of both life and death.
ABILITY SCORES
Prioritize Wisdom, with Charisma second to maximize
your healing and help you spread the word of your faith.
SKILLS
Diplomacy, Medicine, Occultism, Religion
DEITY
Pharasma (alignment: N; divine font: heal)
DOCTRINE
Cloistered cleric (death domain)
HIGHER-LEVEL FEATS
Turn Undead (2nd), Selective Energy (6th)
PREPARED SPELLS
1st fear, mindlink, heal spells from divine font; Cantrips
detect magic,disrupt undead, daze, light, stabilize
Core Rulebook
126
