for being unconscious. They don’t automatically wake up
when rolling initiative, but they might roll a Perception
check to wake up at the start of their turn due to noise. If a
savvy enemy waits for a particularly vulnerable character to
take watch before attacking, the attack can happen on that
character’s watch automatically. However, you might have
the ambusher attempt a Stealth check against the Perception
DCs of all characters to see if anyone noticed its approach.
TABLE 10–3: WATCHES AND REST

Group
Total
Duration of

Size
Time
Each Watch

2
16 hours
8 hours

3
12 hours
4 hours

4
10 hours, 40 minutes
2 hours, 40 minutes

5
10 hours
2 hours

6
9 hours, 36 minutes
1 hour, 36 minutes
DAILY PREPARATIONS
Just before setting out to explore, or after a night’s rest,
the PCs spend time to prepare for the adventuring day.
This typically happens over the span of 30 minutes to an
hour in the morning, but only after 8 full hours of rest.
Daily preparations include the following.
•	 Spellcasters who prepare spells choose which spells
they’ll have available that day.
•	 Focus Points and other abilities that reset during
daily preparations refresh. This includes abilities that
can be used only a certain number of times per day.
•	 Each character equips their gear. This includes
donning their armor and strapping on their weapons.
•	 Characters invest up to 10 worn magic items to gain
their benefits for the day (page 531).
STARVATION AND THIRST
Typically characters eat and drink enough to survive
comfortably. When they can’t, they’re fatigued until
they do. After 1 day + a creature’s Constitution modifier
without water, it takes 1d4 damage each hour that can’t
be healed until it quenches its thirst. After the same
amount of time without food, it takes 1 damage each day
that can’t be healed until it sates its hunger.
Downtime
In downtime, you can sum up the important events of
a whole day with just one roll. Use this mode when the
characters return home or otherwise aren’t adventuring.
Usually, downtime is a few minutes at the start of a
session or a break between major chapters of an adventure.
As with exploration, you might punctuate downtime with
roleplaying or encounters when it’s natural to do so.
This section describes ways to handle downtime and
details several activities and considerations specific to
downtime, such as cost of living, buying and selling goods,
long-term rest, and retraining. Most other downtime
activities are skill actions; a number of these common
downtime activities and their associated skills are listed
below. See the relevant skills in Chapter 4 for details.
•	 Craft (Crafting)
•	 Earn Income (Crafting, Lore, Performance)
•	 Treat Disease (Medicine)
•	 Create Forgery (Society)
•	 Subsist (Society, Survival)
Stakes: None to low. Downtime is the counterpart to
adventuring and covers low-risk activities.
Time Scale: Downtime can last days, weeks, months,
or years in the game world in a few minutes of real time.
Actions and Reactions: If you need to use actions and
reactions, switch to exploration or encounter mode.
A creature that can’t act is unable to perform most
downtime activities, but it can take long-term rest.
PLAYING OUT A DOWNTIME DAY
At the start of a given day of downtime, have all the players
declare what their characters are trying to accomplish that
day. You can then resolve one character’s efforts at a time
(or group some characters together, if they are cooperating
on a single project). Some activities, such as Earning
Income, require only a simple roll and some embellishment
from you and the player. Other activities are more involved,
incorporating encounters or exploration. You can call on
the players to play out their downtime activities in any
order, though it’s often best to do the simplest ones first.
Players who aren’t part of a more involved activity might
have time to take a break from the table while the more
complex activities are played out.
Characters can undertake their daily preparations if
they want, just as they would on a day of exploration.
Ask players to establish a standard set of preparations,
and you can assume the characters go through the same
routine every day unless their players say otherwise.
Cooperation
Multiple characters can cooperate on the same downtime
task. If it’s a simple task that requires just one check, such
as a party Subsisting as they await rescue on a desert
island, one character rolls the necessary check while
everyone else Aids that character. If it’s a complex task,
assume all of them are working on different parts of it at
one time, so all their efforts count toward its completion.
For example, a party might collaborate to build a theater,
with one character drawing up architectural plans, one
doing manual labor, and one talking to local politicians
and guilds.
Checks
Some downtime activities require rolls, typically skill
checks. Because these rolls represent the culmination
of a series of tasks over a long period, players can’t use
most abilities or spells that manipulate die rolls, such as
Core Rulebook
500
