wrong square. The GM might allow you to try targeting
an undetected creature with some spells or other abilities
in a similar fashion. Undetected creatures are subject to
area effects normally.
For instance, suppose an enemy elf wizard cast
invisibility and then Sneaked away. You suspect that with
the elf’s Speed of 30 feet, they probably moved 15 feet
toward an open door. You move up and attack a space 15
feet from where the elf started and directly on the path
to the door. The GM secretly rolls an attack roll and flat
check, but they know that you were not quite correct—
the elf was actually in the adjacent space! The GM tells
you that you missed, so you decide to make your next
attack on the adjacent space, just in case. This time, it’s
the right space, and the GM’s secret attack roll and flat
check both succeed, so you hit!
Unnoticed
If you have no idea a creature is even present, that
creature is unnoticed by you. A creature that is undetected
might also be unnoticed. This condition usually matters
for abilities that can be used only against targets totally
unaware of your presence.
Concealment and Invisibility
The concealed and invisible conditions reflect certain
circumstances that can make a creature harder to see.
Concealed
This condition protects a creature if it’s in mist, within
dim light, or amid something else that obscures sight but
does not provide a physical barrier to effects. An effect
or type of terrain that describes an area of concealment
makes all creatures within it concealed.
When you target a creature that’s concealed from you,
you must attempt a DC 5 flat check before you roll to
determine your effect. If you fail, you don’t affect the
target. The concealed condition doesn’t change which of
the main categories of detection apply to the creature. A
creature in a light fog bank is still observed even though
it’s concealed.
Invisible
A creature with the invisible condition (by way of an
invisibility spell or invisibility potion, for example) is
automatically undetected to any creatures relying on
sight as their only precise sense. Precise senses other than
sight ignore the invisible condition.
You can use the Seek basic action to attempt to figure
out an invisible creature’s location, making it instead only
hidden from you. This lasts until the invisible creature
successfully uses Sneak to become undetected again. If
you’re already observing a creature when it becomes
invisible, it starts out hidden, since you know where it
was when it became invisible, though it can then Sneak to
become undetected.
Other effects might make an invisible creature
hidden or even observed but concealed. For instance,
if you were tracking an invisible creature’s footprints
through the snow, the footprints would make it hidden.
Similarly, throwing a net over an invisible creature
would make it observed but concealed for as long as
the net is on the creature.
Hero Points
Your heroic deeds earn you Hero Points, which grant
you good fortune or let you recover from the brink of
death. Unlike most aspects of your character, which
persist over the long term, Hero Points last for only a
single session.
The GM is in charge of awarding Hero Points
(guidelines for doing so can be found on page 507).
Usually, each character gets 1 Hero Point at the start of
a session and can gain more later by performing heroic
deeds—something selfless, daring, or beyond normal
expectations. You can have a maximum of 3 Hero Points
at a time, and you lose any remaining Hero Points at the
end of a session.
You can spend your Hero Points in one of two ways.
Neither of these is an action, and you can spend Hero
Points even if you aren’t able to act. You can spend a Hero
Point on behalf of your familiar or animal companion.
•	 Spend 1 Hero Point to reroll a check. You must use
the second result. This is a fortune effect (which
means you can’t use more than 1 Hero Point on
a check).
•	 Spend all your Hero Points (minimum 1) to avoid
death. You can do this when your dying condition
would increase. You lose the dying condition
entirely and stabilize with 0 Hit Points. You don’t
gain the wounded condition or increase its value
from losing the dying condition in this way, but if
you already had that condition, you don’t lose it
or decrease its value.
Describing Heroic Deeds
Because spending Hero Points reflects heroic deeds or
tasks that surpass normal expectations, if you spend a
Hero Point, you should describe the deed or task your
character accomplishes with it to the other players.
Your character’s deed might invoke a lesson learned
in a past adventure, could be spurred by a determination
to save someone else, or might depend on an item that
ended up on their person due to a previous exploit. If you
don’t want to describe the deed or don’t have any strong
ideas about how to do so, ask the GM to come up with
something for you. This can be a collaborative process,
too. The GM might remind you of a long-forgotten
event in the campaign, and all you have to do is fill in
how that event comes to mind just at the right time,
motivating you to push past your limits.
467
9
PLAYING THE GAME
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Skills
Feats
Equipment
Spells
The Age of
Lost OMENS
Playing the
Game
Game
mastering
Crafting
& Treasure
Appendix
