skill increase. You can use this increase either to increase
your proficiency rank to trained in one skill you’re
untrained in, or to increase your proficiency rank in one
skill in which you’re already trained to expert.
At 7th level, you can use skill increases to increase
your proficiency rank to master in a skill in which you’re
already an expert, and at 15th level, you can use them to
increase your proficiency rank to legendary in a skill in
which you’re already a master.
Ability Boosts
5th
At 5th level and every 5 levels thereafter, boost four
different ability scores. You can use these boosts to
increase ability scores above 18. Boosting an ability score
increases it by 1 if it’s already 18 or above, or by 2 if it
starts out below 18.
Ancestry Feats
5th
In addition to the ancestry feat you started with, you gain
an ancestry feat at 5th level and every 4 levels thereafter.
The list of ancestry feats available to you can be found in
your ancestry’s entry in Chapter 2.
Weapon Expertise
5th
You’ve dedicated yourself to learning the intricacies of
your weapons. Your proficiency ranks for simple weapons
and martial weapons increase to expert.
Armor Expertise
7th
You have spent so much time in armor that you know
how to make the most of its protection. Your proficiency
ranks for light, medium, and heavy armor, as well as for
unarmored defense, increase to expert. You gain the armor
specialization effects of medium and heavy armor.
Weapon Specialization
7th
You’ve learned how to inflict greater injuries with the
weapons you know best. You deal 2 additional damage
with weapons and unarmed attacks in which you are an
expert. This damage increases to 3 if you’re a master, and to
4 if you’re legendary.
Champion Expertise
9th
Prayers strengthen your divine power. Your proficiency
ranks for your champion class DC and divine spell attack
rolls and DCs increase to expert.
Divine Smite
9th
Your champion’s reaction improves.
Paladin: You surround evil targets in a punishing halo.
If you hit with your Retributive Strike, the target takes
persistent good damage equal to your Charisma modifier.
Redeemer: A guilty conscience assails foes who spurn
your Glimpse of Redemption. A foe that responds to
your Glimpse of Redemption by dealing damage takes
persistent good damage equal to your Charisma modifier.
Devotion Spells
Your deity’s power grants you special divine spells called
devotion spells, which are a type of focus spell. It costs 1
Focus Point to cast a focus spell, and you start with a focus
pool of 1 Focus Point. You refill your focus pool during
your daily preparations, and you regain 1 Focus Point by
spending 10 minutes using the Refocus activity to pray to
your deity or do service toward their causes.
Focus spells are automatically heightened to half your
level rounded up. Certain feats can give you more focus
spells and increase the size of your focus pool, though your
focus pool can never hold more than 3 Focus Points. The full
rules are on page 300. You gain a devotion spell depending
on your cause, and you are trained in divine spell attack
rolls and spell DCs. Your spellcasting ability is Charisma.
Champion Feats
At 1st level and every even-numbered level thereafter,
you gain a champion class feat. Champion class feats are
presented beginning on page 109.
Shield Block
You gain the Shield Block general feat (page 266), a
reaction that lets you reduce damage with your shield.
Skill Feats
2nd
At 2nd level and every 2 levels thereafter, you gain a
skill feat. Skill feats can be found in Chapter 5 and
have the skill trait. You must be trained or better in the
corresponding skill to select a skill feat.
Divine Ally
3rd
Your devotion attracts a spirit of your deity’s alignment.
Once you choose an ally, your choice can’t be changed.
The following are divine allies:
Blade Ally: A spirit of battle dwells within your weapon.
Select one weapon when you make your daily preparations.
In your hands, the weapon gains the effect of a property
rune. For a champion following the tenets of good, choose
disrupting, ghost touch, returning, or shifting. You also
gain the weapon’s critical specialization effect.
Shield Ally: A spirit of protection dwells within your
shield. In your hands, the shield’s Hardness increases by 2
and its HP and BT increase by half.
Steed Ally: You gain a young animal companion as a
mount (page 214). Ordinarily, your animal companion is
one that has the mount special ability, such as a horse. You
can select a different animal companion (GM’s discretion),
but this ability doesn’t grant it the mount special ability.
General Feats
3rd
At 3rd level and every 4 levels thereafter, you gain a
general feat. General feats are listed in Chapter 5.
Skill Increases
3rd
At 3rd level and every 2 levels thereafter, you gain a
Core Rulebook
108
