SAMPLE DRUID
WILD DRUID
Taking on the forms of dangerous creatures, you fight
with feral intensity. Though you trust your instincts,
you might mistrust the ways of polite society.
ABILITY SCORES
Prioritize Wisdom and Strength so you can cast spells
and enter melee combat. You’ll also want Dexterity and
Constitution to improve your defenses and survivability.
SKILLS
Acrobatics, Athletics, Intimidation, Nature
ORDER
Wild
HIGHER-LEVEL FEATS
Form Control (4th), Insect Shape (6th), Soaring Shape
(8th), Plant Shape (10th), Monstrosity Shape (16th)
PREPARED SPELLS
1st heal, magic fang; Cantrips dancing lights, detect magic,
know direction, produce flame, tanglefoot
REACH SPELL [one-action]
FEAT 1
CONCENTRATE
DRUID
METAMAGIC
You can extend the range of your spells. If the next action you
use is to Cast a Spell that has a range, increase that spell’s
range by 30 feet. As is standard for increasing spell ranges, if
the spell normally has a range of touch, you extend its range
to 30 feet.
STORM BORN
FEAT 1
DRUID
Prerequisites storm order
You are at home out in the elements, reveling in the power of
nature unleashed. You do not take circumstance penalties to
ranged spell attacks or Perception checks caused by weather,
and your targeted spells don’t require a flat check to succeed
against a target concealed by weather (such as fog).
WIDEN SPELL [one-action]
FEAT 1
DRUID
MANIPULATE
METAMAGIC
You manipulate the energy of your spell, causing it to spread
out and affect a wider area. If the next action you use is to Cast
a Spell that has an area of a burst, cone, or line and does not
have a duration, increase the area of that spell. Add 5 feet to the
radius of a burst that normally has a radius of at least 10 feet
(a burst with a smaller radius is not affected). Add 5 feet to the
length of a cone or line that is normally 15 feet long or smaller,
and add 10 feet to the length of a larger cone or line.
WILD SHAPE
FEAT 1
DRUID
Prerequisites wild order
You are one with the wild, always changing and adapting to
meet any challenge. You gain the wild shape order spell, which
lets you transform into a variety of forms that you can expand
with druid feats.
2ND LEVEL
CALL OF THE WILD
FEAT 2
DRUID
You call upon the creatures of nature to come to your aid. You
can spend 10 minutes in concert with nature to replace one
of the spells you’ve prepared in one of your druid spell slots
with a summon animal or summon plants and fungi spell of the
same level.
ENHANCED FAMILIAR
FEAT 2
DRUID
Prerequisites a familiar
You infuse your familiar with additional primal energy,
increasing its abilities. You can select four familiar or master
abilities each day, instead of two.
ORDER EXPLORER
FEAT 2
DRUID
You have learned the secrets of another druidic order,
Core Rulebook
134
