When you call upon others to take retribution, you also guide
their aim. When you use Retributive Strike, your allies who
make Strikes take only a –2 penalty, instead of a –5 penalty.
DIVINE REFLEXES 
FEAT 14
CHAMPION
At the start of each of your turns, you gain an additional
reaction that you can use only for your champion’s reaction.
LITANY OF RIGHTEOUSNESS
FEAT 14
CHAMPION
Prerequisites tenets of good
You call upon righteousness to expose an evil foe’s weakness.
You can cast the litany of righteousness devotion spell.
Increase the number of Focus Points in your focus pool by 1.
WYRMBANE AURA
FEAT 14
CHAMPION
Requirements Dragonslayer Oath
Your aura protects against destructive energies and dragons’
breath. You and all allies within 15 feet gain resistance equal to
your Charisma modifier to acid, cold, electricity, fire, and poison.
If the source of one of these types of damage is a dragon’s
breath, increase the resistance to half your level.
16TH LEVEL
AUSPICIOUS MOUNT
FEAT 16
CHAMPION
Prerequisites divine ally (steed), Imposing Destrier
Guided by your ongoing care, your steed has developed
incredible intelligence and skill. The mount you gained
through the divine ally class feature is now a specialized
animal companion (page 217). You can select one of the usual
specializations or the auspice specialization.
Auspice mounts gain the following benefits: Your companion
is marked by your deity’s religious symbol as a sacred creature
of your deity. Its proficiency rank in Religion increases to expert,
it can speak the language associated with your deity’s servitors
(Celestial for champions who follow the tenets of good), and its
Intelligence modifier increases by 2 and its Wisdom modifier by 1.
INSTRUMENT OF ZEAL
FEAT 16
CHAMPION
Prerequisites divine ally (blade), tenets of good
Divine energy fills your weapon. Whenever you critically hit a
foe with Smite Evil or a Retributive Strike, your attack adds an
extra damage die, and the target is slowed 1 on its next turn.
SHIELD OF GRACE
FEAT 16
CHAMPION
Prerequisites Shield Warden
You protect an ally with both your shield and your body.
Whenever you use the Shield Block reaction to prevent damage
to an ally, you can evenly split the remaining damage after the
Shield Block between the ally and yourself.
18TH LEVEL
CELESTIAL FORM
FEAT 18
CHAMPION
Prerequisites tenets of good
You take on a celestial countenance, appearing like a type
of celestial who serves your deity; for example, as an angel,
you would gain a halo and feathery wings. You gain a fly
Speed equal to your Speed. You gain darkvision if you don’t
already have it, and you gain the celestial trait and the trait
appropriate to the type of servitor you’ve become (archon,
angel, or azata, for example).
ULTIMATE MERCY
FEAT 18
CHAMPION
Prerequisites Mercy
Your mercy transcends the bounds of life and death. When
you use Mercy, you can cast lay on hands on a creature that
died since your last turn to return it to life. The target returns
to life with 1 hit point and becomes wounded 1. You can’t use
Ultimate Mercy if the triggering effect was disintegrate or a
death effect.
20TH LEVEL
CELESTIAL MOUNT
FEAT 20
CHAMPION
Prerequisites divine ally (steed), tenets of good
Your steed gains incredible celestial powers granted by your
deity. It gains darkvision, its maximum Hit Points increase by
40, and it gains weakness 10 to evil damage.
Additionally, it grows wings appropriate to a servitor of
your deity (such as metallic wings for an archon), granting it a
fly Speed equal to its Speed. It gains the celestial trait and the
trait appropriate to the type of servitor it has become (archon,
angel, or azata, for example).
RADIANT BLADE MASTER
FEAT 20
CHAMPION
Prerequisites divine ally (blade), Radiant Blade Spirit
Your divine ally turns your chosen weapon into a paragon of
its type. When you choose the weapon for your blade divine
ally during your preparations, add the following property
runes to the list of effects you can choose from: dancing,
greater disrupting, and keen.
SHIELD PARAGON
FEAT 20
CHAMPION
Prerequisites divine ally (shield)
Your shield is a vessel of divine protection. When you’re
wielding your chosen shield, it is always raised, even without
you using the Raise a Shield action. Your chosen shield doubles
its HP and BT, rather than increasing them by half. If it would
be destroyed, it vanishes to your deity’s realm instead, where
your divine ally repairs it. During your next daily preparations,
the shield returns to you fully repaired.
115
3
CLASSES
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Skills
Feats
Equipment
Spells
The Age of
Lost OMENS
Playing the
Game
Game
mastering
Crafting
& Treasure
Appendix
