them becomes more and more powerful, you advance
in power dramatically, leaving behind those who don’t
understand your strange science.
You gain the Alchemical Crafting feat (page 258),
even if you don’t meet that feat’s prerequisites, and you
gain the four common 1st-level alchemical formulas
granted by that feat. The catalog of alchemical items
begins on page 543. You can use this feat to create
alchemical items as long as you have the items’ formulas
in your formula book.
Infused Reagents
You infuse reagents with your own alchemical essence,
allowing you to create alchemical items at no cost. Each
day during your daily preparations, you gain a number
of batches of infused reagents equal to your level + your
Intelligence modifier. You can use these reagents for either
advanced alchemy or Quick Alchemy, described below.
Together, these infused reagents have light Bulk.
As soon as you make your next daily preparations, your
infused reagents from the previous day’s preparations are
instantly destroyed, and nonpermanent effects of your
previous day’s infused items immediately end. While infused
reagents are physical objects, they can’t be duplicated,
preserved, or created in any way other than your daily
preparations. Any such artificial reagents lack the infusion
and are useless for advanced alchemy or Quick Alchemy.
Advanced Alchemy
During your daily preparations, after producing new
infused reagents, you can spend batches of those infused
reagents to create infused alchemical items. You don’t
need to attempt a Crafting check to do this, and you
ignore both the number of days typically required to
create the items and any alchemical reagent requirements.
Your advanced alchemy level is equal to your level. For
each batch of infused reagents you spend, choose an
alchemical item of your advanced alchemy level or lower
that’s in your formula book, and make a batch of two of
that item. These items have the infused trait and remain
potent for 24 hours or until your next daily preparations,
whichever comes first.
Quick Alchemy
If you need a specific alchemical item on the fly, you can
use your infused reagents to quickly create it with the
Quick Alchemy action.
QUICK ALCHEMY [o[fre[o[one-action]
ALCHEMIST
MANIPULATE
Cost 1 batch of infused reagents
Requirements You have alchemist’s tools (page 287), the formula
for the alchemical item you’re creating, and a free hand.
You swiftly mix up a short-lived alchemical item to use at
a moment’s notice. You create a single alchemical item of
your advanced alchemy level or lower that’s in your formula
TABLE 3–1: ALCHEMIST ADVANCEMENT
Your
Level	 Class Features
1
Ancestry and background, initial proficiencies,

alchemy, formula book, research field, alchemist feat
2
Alchemist feat, skill feat
3
General feat, skill increase
4
Alchemist feat, skill feat
5
Ability boosts, ancestry feat, field discovery,

skill increase
6
Alchemist feat, skill feat
7
Alchemical weapon expertise, general feat, iron will,

perpetual infusions, skill increase
8
Alchemist feat, skill feat
9
Alchemical expertise, alertness, ancestry feat, double

brew, skill increase
10
Ability boosts, alchemist feat, skill feat
11
General feat, juggernaut, perpetual potency, skill

increase
12
Alchemist feat, skill feat
13
Ancestry feat, greater field discovery, light armor

expertise, skill increase, weapon specialization
14
Alchemist feat, skill feat
15
Ability boosts, alchemical alacrity, evasion, general

feat, skill increase
16
Alchemist feat, skill feat
17
Alchemical mastery, ancestry feat, perpetual

perfection, skill increase
18
Alchemist feat, skill feat
19
General feat, light armor mastery, skill increase
20
Ability boosts, alchemist feat, skill feat
Class Features
You gain these abilities as an alchemist. Abilities gained
at higher levels list the levels at which you gain them next
to the features’ names.
Ancestry and Background
In addition to the abilities provided by your class at 1st
level, you have the benefits of your selected ancestry and
background, as described in Chapter 2.
Initial Proficiencies
At 1st level, you gain a number of proficiencies that
represent your basic training. These proficiencies are
noted at the start of this class.
Alchemy
You understand the complex interactions of natural
and unnatural substances and can concoct alchemical
items to meet your needs. You can do this using normal
reagents and the Craft activity, or you can use special
infused reagents that allow you to craft temporary items
quickly and at no cost. Over time, you can create more
and more alchemical items for free, and since each of
Core Rulebook
72
