your words emanate from the bird, and the bird then flies off
and vanishes. The bird also vanishes if it fails to find your target
after 10 hours of searching the location you specified.
Type chest; Level 3; Price 10 gp
When you use this token, a small wooden chest appears and
immediately opens. This chest can hold up to 10 Bulk worth
of items. Once the chest is closed, it transforms again—this
time into a key—taking all of the stored items with it. You can
activate this key by spending an Interact action to turn it in an
imaginary lock, which causes it to transform back into a chest
with all of the items still inside. Once it has turned into a chest
a second time, it forever remains a wooden chest.
Type fan; Level 4; Price 15 gp
Activating this feather requires you to fan it in a given direction.
If this direction is toward the sail of a vessel, the feather flutters
up toward the sail and fans continuously, filling the sail with air
and granting the vessel a +10-foot circumstance bonus to its
Speed for 8 hours. If fanned in any other direction, it instead
produces a single casting of gust of wind (DC 20).
Type holly bush; Level 2; Price 6 gp
When this feather is activated, it immediately transforms into a
living holly bush, filling a single square. This bush can provide
standard cover. In addition, the bush has 2d4 bright-red berries.
While holly berries are usually poisonous, these berries are
infused with beneficial magic. You can pick and eat a berry as an
Interact action to recover 1 Hit Point. Once plucked from the bush,
a berry becomes non-magical after a few seconds, so it doesn’t
heal you if you don’t eat it within the span of your Interact action.
If activated on soil, the plant continues to grow and thrive
(although it doesn’t produce any more healing berries). If
activated elsewhere, it withers and dies within 1d4 days.
Type ladder; Level 1; Price 3 gp
When
activated,
this
feather
transforms
permanently into a 20-foot-long wooden ladder.
Type swan boat; Level 8; Price 76 gp
This feather can be activated only when tossed
into a large body of water, such as a lake or
broad river. It transforms into a swan-shaped
boat capable of carrying up to 32 Medium
creatures, 8 Large creatures, or 2 Huge
creatures. The boat moves on the water at a
Speed of 50 feet, and lasts 1 day.
Type tree; Level 6; Price 38 gp
This token can be activated only on an unoccupied
patch of earth or soil. When activated, this token transforms
into an oak tree, 60 feet tall with a 5-foot-wide trunk. The tree
continues to live and grow if conditions are favorable.
Type whip; Level 9; Price 130 gp
This feather transforms into a +1 striking dancing whip when
activated. The whip immediately jumps from your grasp and
proceeds to attack your enemies until 1 minute has passed or
it fails its flat check for dancing, at which point it vanishes.
If the whip’s target isn’t prone, the whip uses its actions to
attempt to Trip that creature instead of making a Strike. The
whip’s total attack modifier for Striking or Tripping is +18
instead of the normal bonus for a dancing weapon.
HOLY WATER
ITEM 1
CONSUMABLE
 DIVINE
 GOOD
 SPLASH
Price 3 gp
Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk L
Activate [one-action] Strike
This vial contains water blessed by a good deity. You activate
a vial of holy water by throwing it as a Strike. It’s a simple
thrown weapon with a range increment of 20 feet. Unlike an
alchemical bomb, it doesn’t add the manipulate trait to the
attack made with it.
Holy water deals 1d6 good damage and 1  good splash
damage. It damages only fiends, undead, and creatures that
have a weakness to good damage.
JAVELIN OF LIGHTNING
ITEM 9
CONSUMABLE
 ELECTRICITY
 EVOCATION
 MAGICAL
Price 110 gp
Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk L
Activate [two-actions] command, Interact
This item looks like a normal javelin carved with lightning-bolt
motifs. If thrown without being activated, it wobbles in the
air and fails to strike true. When you Activate the javelin, your
command makes the carvings crackle with electricity. You then
hurl the javelin. It shatters immediately after leaving your hand
and unleashes its magic as a 4th-level lightning bolt originating
from your space. The bolt deals 5d12 electricity damage and
has a Reflex save DC of 25.
Craft Requirements Supply a casting of lightning bolt (4th level).
RUNESTONE
ITEM 1
CONSUMABLE
 MAGICAL
Price 3 gp
Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk L
This flat piece of hard stone is specially prepared for etching a
magical fundamental rune or property rune. You can
etch only one rune upon a stone. Once the stone is
etched, it gains the magic school trait of the rune
etched upon it. When a rune is transferred from
the runestone to another object, the runestone
cracks and is destroyed. The Price listed is for an
empty stone; a stone holding a rune adds the Price
of the rune.
UNHOLY WATER
ITEM 1
CONSUMABLE
 DIVINE
 EVIL
 SPLASH
Price 3 gp
Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk L
Activate [one-action] Strike
An evil deity’s malice lies within this vial of water. You activate
a vial of unholy water by throwing it as a Strike. It’s a simple
thrown weapon with a range increment of 20 feet. Unlike an
alchemical bomb, it doesn’t add the manipulate trait to the
attack made with it.
Unholy water deals 1d6 evil damage and 1 evil splash damage.
It damages only celestials and creatures that have a weakness
to evil damage.
571
11
Crafting & Treasure
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Skills
Feats
Equipment
Spells
The Age of
Lost OMENS
Playing the
Game
Game
mastering
Crafting
& Treasure
Appendix
