Beyond the Inner Sea
The Inner Sea region consists of the continent of Avistan
and the northern portion of the continent of Garund,
but it is only one part of a much larger world. Garund
itself extends further south, and its southern reaches are
home to several unique ancestries and cultures. As one
travels east from the Inner Sea, the vast expanse of the
continent of Casmaron stretches beyond the horizon.
With the immense inland Castrovin Sea at its heart,
Casmaron is the largest of Golarion’s continents and
home to some of its oldest and most successful empires.
Farther east of Casmaron lies the continent of Tian Xia,
a region often called the Dragon Empires. The northern
section of Tian Xia connects to Golarion’s northernmost
continent, a frozen reach known as the Crown of the
World. This continent forms a bridge between Tian Xia
and Avistan over the north pole. South of Tian Xia lies
the mysterious continent of Sarusan, of which little is
known due to the powerful storms and vexing currents
that shroud its shores. Heading west from the Inner Sea
region, sailors encounter the shattered remnants of lost
Azlant, a ruined continent that hosted one of humanity’s
first empires until it was destroyed during Earthfall.
Sailing farther west from these ruins eventually leads
to the shores of Arcadia, a land with unusual magical
traditions and powerful nations of its own. And beneath
all of these lands, carved into the planet’s very crust, lie
the twisting tunnels of the tripartite underground realm
known collectively as the Darklands, which houses great
horrors and dangers but equally great opportunities for
triumph and treasure.
In addition, Golarion is but one of 11 worlds that
orbit its sun. To the vast majority of the planet’s
denizens, the other 11 worlds are little more than points
of light in the sky, but these worlds are not so distant as
one might expect. The planets of Akiton and Castrovel
are Golarion’s closest neighbors. Travelers from both
have visited and in some cases settled on Golarion,
most notably elves, who originally hail from Castrovel.
Even the farthest planet, remote Aucturn, has influenced
Golarion, with its alien inhabitants exerting a sinister
touch on the world that recently put the entire planet
in peril. The wise thus do not discount the dangers
and wonders that dwell on other planets of Golarion’s
solar system.
The Great Beyond
Countless planets lie beyond Golarion’s solar system, but
even these myriad worlds of the universe, known as the
Material Plane, are but a fragment compared to what
lies in the multiverse beyond. Other planes of existence
and strange dimensions wrap this reality in a series of
layered, nested spheres, known collectively as the Great
Beyond. This model of reality is as much a metaphor
for concepts that mortal minds have difficulty grasping
as a physical description, for within the Great Beyond,
anything is possible.
Crown of the World
Arcadia
Azlant
Garund
Avistan
Casmaron
Tian Xia
Sarusan
Core Rulebook
418
