does, as does a successful Stealth check to Hide (against
the spell’s DC). For auditory detection, line of sight isn’t
necessary, though the sound must be audible at the spell’s
origin point. A Stealth check to Sneak can fool the sensor.
Walls
Spells that create walls list the depth, length, and height of
the wall, also specifying how it can be positioned. Some
walls can be shaped; you can manipulate the wall into a
form other than a straight line, choosing its contiguous path
square by square. The path of a shaped wall can’t enter the
same space more than once, but it can double back so one
section is adjacent to another section of the wall.
Reading Spells
Each spell uses the following format. Entries appear only
when applicable, so not all spells will have every entry
described here. The spell’s name line also lists the type of
spell if it’s a cantrip or focus spell, as well as the level.
SPELL NAME
SPELL (LEVEL)
TRAITS
Tradition This entry lists the magical traditions the spell
belongs to. Some feats or other abilities might add a spell to
your spell list even if you don’t follow the listed traditions.
Cast The number of actions required to Cast the Spell are listed
here. Spells that can be cast during a single turn have the
appropriate icon, as do those that can be cast as a free action
or a reaction. Spells that take longer to cast list the time
required, such as “1 minute.” After this, the spell’s components
are listed. If Casting the Spell has a cost, requirements, or a
trigger, that information is also listed in this section. A cost
includes any money, valuable materials, or other resources
that must be expended to cast the spell.
Range, Area, and Targets This entry lists the range of the spell,
the area it affects, and the targets it can affect, if any. If none
of these entries are present, the spell affects only the caster.
Saving Throw and Duration If a spell allows the target to attempt
a saving throw, the type of save appears here. Any details on
the particular results and timing of the save appear in the text
unless the entry specifies a basic saving throw, which follows
the rules found on page 449. If the spell requires a save only
under certain circumstances or at a certain time, this entry
is omitted, since the text needs to explain it in more detail. A
spell that doesn’t list a duration takes place instantaneously,
and anything created by it persists after the spell.
A horizontal line follows saving throws and duration, and the
effects of the spell are described after this line. This section
might also detail the possible results of a saving throw: critical
success, success, failure, and critical failure.
Heightened (level) If the spell can be heightened, the effects
of heightening it appear at the end of the stat block.
Core Rulebook
306
