MAIL OF LUCK
ITEM 13
DIVINATION
 INVESTED
 MAGICAL
Price 2,600 gp
Usage worn armor; Bulk 3
This suit of +2 resilient splint mail has a large, green gemstone
inset in a prominent location.
Activate [free-action] envision; Frequency once per day; Trigger You
are hit or critically hit with an attack, but damage hasn’t
been rolled yet; Effect You force the attacker to reroll the
attack roll and use the worse result. This effect has the
misfortune trait.
Activating the armor causes the gemstone to turn gray
and become inert. You cannot activate the armor again until
the stone returns to its original green color. The gem turns
green again after 1 week or when a significant foe critically
succeeds at an attack roll targeting you. (If an enemy rolls
a critical success at an attack against you and you force the
attacker to reroll that critical success, that critical success
does not recharge the mail of luck.) Even if the armor’s power
returns before a week has elapsed, it can’t be activated more
than once per day.
MOONLIT CHAIN
ITEM 7
DIVINATION
 INVESTED
 MAGICAL
Price 360 gp
Usage worn armor; Bulk 2
This +1 silver chain shirt has a collar adorned with stitched
images of the phases of the moon. You can see in moonlight
as though you had low-light vision.
Activate [one-action] Interact; Frequency once per day; Effect You
touch the stitched image of the new moon on the armor’s
collar and suppress the dazzled condition for 1 minute.
Craft Requirements The initial raw materials must include
33 gp of silver.
PLATE ARMOR OF THE DEEP
ITEM 15
UNCOMMON
 ABJURATION
 INVESTED
 MAGICAL
Price 6,500 gp
Usage worn armor; Bulk 4
This suit of +2 greater resilient full plate is decorated with
swirling, ornate motifs of waves and fish scales. While
wearing it, you take no Speed reduction or check penalty
from armor when Swimming, gain a +2 item bonus to
Athletics checks to Swim, can breathe underwater, and can
speak Aquan.
RHINO HIDE
ITEM 9
INVESTED
 MAGICAL
 TRANSMUTATION
Price 700 gp
Usage worn armor; Bulk 2
This +1 resilient hide armor is made from rhinoceros hide. It
has an armor check penalty of –1 instead of –3. When you
use the Sudden Charge class feat while wearing this armor,
your Strike deals an additional 1d8 damage.
Craft Requirements The initial raw materials must include
320 gp of rhinoceros hide (a common material).
Usage worn armor; Bulk 1
Shining, slippery eelskin covers the plates of this +1 resilient
greater slick leather armor. The armor gives you the ability
to breathe water and grants you a +2 item bonus to Athletics
checks to Swim and Stealth checks you attempt in the water.
Activate [two-actions] command, Interact; Frequency once per hour;
Effect You cast a 2nd-level shocking grasp with a DC of 29.
Craft Requirements Supply one casting of shocking grasp.
GHOUL HIDE
ITEM 6
UNCOMMON
 INVESTED
 MAGICAL
 NECROMANCY
Price 220 gp
Usage worn armor; Bulk 2
Stitched together from pieces of ghoul skin, this suit of +1
hide armor grants you a +1 item bonus to saving throws
against disease and paralysis and makes you immune to the
paralysis of ghouls. Ghoul hide with a resilient rune increases
the resilient rune’s item bonus to saving throws against
disease and paralysis by 1 (maximum +4).
Ghoul hide hisses with sibilant hatred at the touch of
elves. When worn by a creature with the elf trait, the armor
gains the noisy trait.
IMPENETRABLE SCALE
ITEM 17
UNCOMMON
 ABJURATION
 INVESTED
 MAGICAL
Price 12,800 gp
Usage worn armor; Bulk 3
Made of overlapping, lustrous black scales of standard-grade
adamantine, this +2 greater resilient fortification adamantine
scale mail seems to momentarily thicken at the point of impact
when hit. Whenever the armor’s fortification rune successfully
turns a significant foe’s critical hit into a normal hit, one of
the scales on the armor turns violet. You gain resistance to
physical damage equal to the number of violet scales, to a
maximum of 8.
At dawn each day, all the violet scales return to normal.
Craft Requirements The initial raw materials must include
1,600 gp of adamantine.
Core Rulebook
558
