Athletics check or Reflex save against your spell DC to avoid
taking a circumstance penalty to its Speeds or becoming
immobilized. A creature that gets out of the web ceases to
take a circumstance penalty to its Speed from the web.
Critical Success The creature is unaffected, and it doesn’t
need to attempt further Athletics checks or saving throws
against the web this turn. If it used an Athletics check, it
clears the web from every square it leaves after leaving
the square.
Success The creature is unaffected during its action. If it used
an Athletics check, it clears the web from every square it
leaves after leaving the square.
Failure The creature takes a –10-foot circumstance penalty to
its Speeds until the start of its next turn.
Critical Failure The creature is immobilized until the start of
its next turn, after which it takes a –10-foot circumstance
penalty to its Speeds for 1 round. It can attempt to Escape
to remove its immobilized condition.
Heightened (4th) The spell’s area increases to a 20-foot burst,
and its range increases to 60 feet.
WEIRD
SPELL 9
DEATH
EMOTION
FEAR
ILLUSION
MENTAL
Traditions arcane, occult
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal
Range 120 feet; Targets any number of creatures
Saving Throw Will
You fill the targets’ minds with terrifying images of fearsome
creatures, each drawn from the targets’ worst fears. Only the
targets can see their assailants. Each target takes 16d6 mental
damage and must attempt a Will save.
Critical Success The target is unaffected.
Success The target takes half damage and is frightened 1.
Failure The target takes full damage and is frightened 2.
Critical Failure The target is so afraid, it might instantly die.
It must attempt a Fortitude saving throw. If the target
succeeds, it takes double damage and is frightened 2,
and it’s also fleeing until the end of its next turn unless it
critically succeeded. If it fails, it is reduced to 0 Hit Points
and dies.
WIND WALK
SPELL 8
AIR
TRANSMUTATION
Traditions primal
Cast 10 minutes (material, somatic, verbal)
Range touch; Targets you and up to five creatures touched
Duration 8 hours
When you cast this spell, each target transforms into a
vaguely cloud-like form and is picked up by a wind moving
in the direction of your choice. You can change the wind’s
direction by using a single action, which has the concentrate
trait. The wind carries the targets at a Speed of 20 miles per
hour, but if any of the targets make an attack, Cast a Spell,
come under attack, or otherwise enter encounter mode, the
spell ends for all targets just after they roll initiative, and they
drift gently to the ground.
WISH
SPELL 10
DIVINATION
Traditions arcane
Cast [three-actions] material, somatic, verbal
You state a wish, making your greatest desire come true. A
wish spell can produce any one of the following effects.
•	 Duplicate any arcane spell of 9th level or lower.
•	 Duplicate any non-arcane spell of 7th level or lower.
•	 Produce any effect whose power level is in line with
the above effects.
•	 Reverse certain effects that refer to the wish spell.
The GM might allow you to try using wish to produce
greater effects than these, but doing so might be dangerous
or the spell might have only a partial effect.
ZEALOUS CONVICTION
SPELL 6
ENCHANTMENT
Traditions divine, occult
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal
Range 30 feet; Targets up to 10 willing creatures
Duration 10 minutes
You bypass your targets’ rational minds, instilling them with
unshakable conviction and zeal. The targets each gain 12
temporary Hit Points and a +2 status bonus to Will saves
against mental effects, as their faith overrides the signals from
their own bodies and minds. If you tell a target to do something,
it must comply with your request, though if it would normally
find the task repugnant, it can attempt a Will save at the end
of its turn each round due to the cognitive dissonance. On a
success, it ends the spell’s effects on itself entirely.
Heightened (9th) The temporary Hit Points increase to 18, and
the status bonus to Will saves increases to +3.
ZONE OF TRUTH
SPELL 3
UNCOMMON
ENCHANTMENT
MENTAL
Traditions divine, occult
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal
Range 30 feet; Area 20-foot burst
Saving Throw Will; Duration 10 minutes
You designate an area in which creatures are compelled
to speak only truth. Creatures within or entering the area
have difficulty lying. Each potentially affected creature
must attempt a Will save when the spell is cast or when the
creature first enters the area. It uses the results of this initial
save if it leaves and reenters the area. Affected creatures
are aware of this enchantment; therefore, they can avoid
answering questions to which they would normally respond
with a lie, or they can be evasive as long as they remain within
the boundaries of the truth.
Critical Success The target is unaffected.
Success The target takes a –2 status penalty to Deception checks.
Failure The target can’t speak any deliberate and intentional
lies, and it takes a –2 status penalty to Deception checks.
Critical Failure The target can’t speak any deliberate
and intentional lies and takes a –4 status penalty to
Deception checks.
385
7
SPELLS
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Skills
Feats
Equipment
Spells
The Age of
Lost OMENS
Playing the
Game
Game
mastering
Crafting
& Treasure
Appendix
