2
3
Paizo Inc.

Redmond, WA 98052-0577
paizo.com
Table of Contents
1 	 Introduction
4

Learn the basics of roleplaying games, get an overview of the rules, and see an example
of play. This section also covers how to build a character, as well as how to level up your
character after adventuring.
2 	Ancestries & Backgrounds
32

Choose the people your character belongs to—whether they’re dwarves, elves, gnomes,
goblins, halflings, or humans—then pick a background that fleshes out what your character
did before becoming an adventurer. Details on languages also appear in this chapter.
3 	Classes
66

Bold fighters, devout clerics, scholarly wizards, and inventive alchemists are just a few of
the 12 character classes you can select from. This chapter also details animal companions,
familiars, and multiclass archetypes that expand your character’s abilities.
4 	Skills
232

Execute acrobatic maneuvers, trick your enemies, tend to an ally’s wounds, or learn all about
strange creatures and magic using your training in skills.
5 	Feats
254

Expand your capabilities by selecting general feats that improve your statistics or give you
new actions. This chapter includes skill feats, which are tied directly to your skills.
6 	Equipment
270

Gear up for adventure with this vast arsenal of armor, weapons, and gear.
7 	Spells
296

Learn to kindle magic in the palm of your hand. This section includes the rules for spellcasting,
hundreds of spell descriptions, focus spells used by certain classes, and rituals.
GAME DESIGNERS
Logan Bonner, Jason Bulmahn,
Stephen Radney-MacFarland, and Mark Seifter
ADDITIONAL WRITING
James Jacobs
DEVELOPERS
Adam Daigle, Lyz Liddell, and Erik Mona
EDITORS
Amirali Attar Olyaee, Judy Bauer,
Christopher Paul Carey, James Case, Jaym Gates,
Leo Glass, Jason Keeley, Avi Kool, Lyz Liddell,
Luis Loza, Erik Mona, Adrian Ng, Lacy Pellazar,
Elsa Sjunneson-Henry, and Jason Tondro
COVER ARTIST
Wayne Reynolds
INTERIOR ARTISTS
Giorgio Baroni, Rogier van de Beek,
Yanis Cardin, Sergio Cosmai, Biagio D’Alessandro,
Michele Esposito, Giorgio Falconi, Taylor Fischer,
Mariusz Gandzel, Igor Grechanyi, Hai Hoang,
Roman Roland Kuteynikov, Setiawan Lie,
Valeria Lutfullina, Damien Mammoliti, Rob McCaleb,
Andrea Tentori Montalto, Stefano Moroni,
Federico Musetti, Alexander Nanitchkov,
Mirco Paganessi, Mary Jane Pajaron,
Jose Parodi, Angelo Peluso, Roberto Pitturru,
Konstantin Porubov, Wayne Reynolds,
Kiki Moch Rizky, Riccardo Rullo, Bryan Sola,
Matteo Spirito, Matias Tapia, Ben Wootten, and
Sam Yang
ART DIRECTION AND GRAPHIC DESIGN
Sarah E. Robinson and Sonja Morris
CREATIVE DIRECTOR
James Jacobs
PUBLISHER
Erik Mona
SPECIAL THANKS
Dave Arneson, Monte Cook, Ron Edwards,
Gary Gygax, Daniel Solis, John Stavropoulos,
Jonathan Tweet, Skip Williams, and all the
participants in the Pathfinder Playtest
