Ability Score Overview
Each ability score starts at 10, representing human
average, but as you make character choices, you’ll adjust
these scores by applying ability boosts, which increase a
score, and ability flaws, which decrease a score. As you
build your character, remember to apply ability score
adjustments when making the following decisions.
Ancestry: Each ancestry provides ability boosts, and
sometimes an ability flaw. If you are taking any voluntary
flaws, apply them in this step (see the sidebar on page 24).
Background: Your character’s background provides two
ability boosts.
Class: Your character’s class provides an ability boost to
the ability score most important to your class, called your
key ability score.
Determine Scores: After the other steps, you apply four
more ability boosts of your choice. Then, determine your
ability modifiers based on those scores.
Ability Boosts
An ability boost normally increases an ability score’s
value by 2. However, if the ability score to which you’re
applying an ability boost is already 18 or higher, its value
increases by only 1. At 1st level, a character can never
have any ability score that’s higher than 18.
When your character receives an ability boost, the rules
indicate whether it must be applied to a specific ability
score or to one of two specific ability scores, or whether it
is a “free” ability boost that can be applied to any ability
score of your choice. However, when you gain multiple
ability boosts at the same time, you must apply each one to
a different score. Dwarves, for example, receive an ability
boost to their Constitution score and their Wisdom score,
as well as one free ability boost, which can be applied to
any score other than Constitution or Wisdom.
Ability Flaws
Ability flaws are not nearly as common in Pathfinder as
ability boosts. If your character has an ability flaw—likely
from their ancestry—you decrease that ability score by 2.
Ability Modifiers
Once you’ve finalized your ability scores, you can use them
to determine your ability modifiers, which are used in most
other statistics in the game. Find the score in Table 1–1:
Ability Modifiers to determine its ability modifier.
TABLE 1–1: ABILITY MODIFIERS
	 Ability Score
Modifier
Ability Score	 Modifier

1
–5
14–15
+2

2–3
–4
16–17
+3

4–5
–3
18–19
+4

6–7
–2
20–21
+5

8–9
–1
22–23
+6

10–11
+0
24–25
+7

12–13
+1
etc...
The standard method of generating ability scores that’s
described above works great if you want to create a perfectly
customized, balanced character. But your GM may decide to
add a little randomness to character creation and let the dice
decide what kind of character the players are going to play. In
that case, you can use this alternative method to generate your
ability scores. Be warned—the same randomness that makes
this system fun also allows it to sometimes create characters
that are significantly more (or less) powerful than the standard
ability score system and other Pathfinder rules assume.
If your GM opts for rolling ability scores, follow these
alternative steps, ignoring all other instructions and guidelines
about applying ability boosts and ability flaws throughout the
character generation process.
STEP 1: ROLL AND ASSIGN SCORES
Roll four 6-sided dice (4d6) and discard the lowest die result.
Add the three remaining results together and record the sum.
(For example, if you rolled a 2, 4, 5, and 6, you would discard
the 2 and your total would be 15.) Repeat this process until
you’ve generated six such values. Decide which value you want
for each of your ability scores.
STEP 2: ASSIGN ABILITY BOOSTS AND
ABILITY FLAWS
Apply the ability boosts your character gains from their
ancestry, but your character gets one fewer free ability
boost than normal. If your character’s ancestry has any
ability flaws, apply those next. Finally, apply one ability
boost to one of the ability scores specified in the character’s
background (you do not get the other free ability boost).
These ability boosts cannot raise a score above 18. If this
would happen, you can put the ability boost into another
ability score instead, as if it were a free ability boost, or you
can put it into an ability score of 17 to reach 18 and lose the
excess increase.
STEP 3: RECORD SCORES AND MODIFIERS
Record the final scores and assign the ability modifiers
according to Table 1–1. When your character receives
additional ability boosts at higher levels, you assign them
as any character would.
ALTERNATIVE METHOD: ROLLING ABILITY SCORES
2
4
5
6
Core Rulebook
20
