Heightened (7th) The spell’s duration increases to 1 hour. Roll
1d8 to determine the wall’s color; the results for 5–8 are below.
A red, orange, yellow, or green wall deals an extra 10 damage.
5.	Blue The wall stops auditory, petrification, and visual
effects from passing through, and creatures passing
through are subject to the effects of flesh to stone.
Magic missile can counteract a blue chromatic wall.
6.	Indigo The wall stops divination and mental effects
from passing through, and those passing through are
subject to the effects of warp mind. Searing light can
counteract an indigo chromatic wall.
7.	 Violet The wall prevents spells from targeting the other
side (area effects still cross as normal). Creatures passing
through must succeed at a Will save or they are slowed
1 for 1 minute; on a critical failure, the creature is instead
sent to another plane, with the effect of plane shift. Dispel
magic can counteract a violet chromatic wall.
8.	Reroll, and creatures that pass through the wall take a
–2 circumstance penalty to their saves.
CIRCLE OF PROTECTION
SPELL 3
UNCOMMON
ABJURATION
Traditions divine, occult
Cast [three-actions] material, somatic, verbal
Range touch; Area 10-foot emanation centered on the touched
creature
Duration 1 minute
You ward a creature and those nearby against a specified
alignment. Choose chaotic, evil, good, or lawful; this spell gains
the opposing trait. Creatures in the area gain a +1 status bonus
to AC against attacks by creatures of the chosen alignment
and to saves against effects from such creatures. This bonus
increases to +3 against effects from such creatures that directly
control the target and attacks made by summoned creatures
of the chosen alignment. Summoned creatures of the chosen
alignment can’t willingly enter the area without succeeding at a
Will save; repeated attempts use the first save result.
Heightened (4th) The duration increases to 1 hour.
CLAIRAUDIENCE
SPELL 3
DIVINATION
SCRYING
Traditions arcane, occult
Cast 1 minute (material, somatic, verbal)
Range 500 feet
Duration 10 minutes
You create an invisible floating ear at a location within range
(even if it’s outside your line of sight or line of effect). It can’t
move, but you can hear through the ear as if using your
normal auditory senses.
CLAIRVOYANCE
SPELL 4
DIVINATION
SCRYING
Traditions arcane, occult
Cast 1 minute (material, somatic, verbal)
Range 500 feet
Duration 10 minutes
You create an invisible floating eye at a location within range
(even if it’s outside your line of sight or line of effect). The eye
can’t move, but you can see in all directions from that point as
if using your normal visual senses.
CLOAK OF COLORS
SPELL 5
ILLUSION
VISUAL
Traditions arcane, occult
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal
Range 30 feet; Targets 1 creature
Duration 1 minute
A cloak of swirling colors shrouds the target. Creatures are
dazzled while adjacent to it, and attacking the target causes
a brilliant flash of light. A creature that hits the target with a
melee attack must attempt a Will save.
Success The attacker is unaffected.
Failure The attacker is blinded for 1 round.
Critical Failure The attacker is stunned for 1 round.
The creature is temporarily immune until the end of its turn;
this effect has the incapacitation trait.
CLOUDKILL
SPELL 5
DEATH
NECROMANCY
POISON
Traditions arcane, primal
Cast [three-actions] material, somatic, verbal
Range 120 feet; Area 20-foot burst
Saving Throw basic Fortitude; Duration 1 minute
You conjure a poisonous fog. This functions as obscuring mist
(page 355), except the area moves 10 feet away from you each
round. You deal 6d8 poison damage to each breathing creature
that starts its turn in the spell’s area. You can Dismiss the spell.
Heightened (+1) The damage increases by 1d8.
COLLECTIVE TRANSPOSITION
SPELL 6
CONJURATION
TELEPORTATION
Traditions arcane, occult
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal
Area 30-foot emanation; Targets up to 2 creatures
You teleport the targets to new positions within the area. The
creatures must each be able to fit in their new space, and their
positions must be unoccupied, entirely within the area, and in
your line of sight. Unwilling creatures can attempt a Will save.
Critical Success The target can teleport if it wants, but it
chooses the destination within range.
Success The target is unaffected.
Failure You teleport the target and choose its destination.
Heightened (+1) The number of targets increases by 1.
COLOR SPRAY
SPELL 1
ILLUSION
INCAPACITATION
VISUAL
Traditions arcane, occult
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal
Area 15-foot cone
Saving Throw Will; Duration 1 or more rounds (see below)
Swirling colors affect viewers based on their Will saves.
Critical Success The creature is unaffected.
Core Rulebook
324
