magical auras. When the casting is complete, you know
whether that item is magical, and if it is, you learn the school
of magic (pages 297–298).
If the object is illusory, you detect this only if the effect’s
level is lower than the level of your read aura spell.
Heightened (3rd) You can target up to 10 objects.
Heightened (6th) You can target any number of objects.
READ OMENS
SPELL 4
UNCOMMON
DIVINATION
PREDICTION
Traditions divine, occult
Cast 10 minutes (material, somatic, verbal)
You peek into the future. Choose a particular goal, event, or
activity that will occur within 1 week. You learn a cryptic clue
or piece of advice that could help with the chosen event, often
in the form of a rhyme or omen.
REGENERATE
SPELL 7
HEALING
NECROMANCY
POSITIVE
Traditions divine, primal
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal
Range touch; Targets 1 willing living creature
Duration 1 minute
An infusion of positive energy grants a creature continuous
healing. The target temporarily gains regeneration 15, which
restores 15 Hit Points to it at the start of each of its turns.
While it has regeneration, the target can’t die from damage
and its dying value can’t exceed 3, though if its wounded value
becomes 4 or higher, it stays unconscious until its wounds are
treated. If the target takes acid or fire damage, its regeneration
deactivates until after the end of its next turn.
Each time the creature regains Hit Points from regeneration,
it also regrows one damaged or ruined organ (if any). During
the spell’s duration, the creature can also reattach severed
body parts by spending an Interact action to hold the body
part to the area it was severed from.
Heightened (9th) The regeneration increases to 20.
REMAKE
SPELL 10
UNCOMMON
CONJURATION
Traditions arcane, divine, occult, primal
Cast 1 hour (material, somatic, verbal)
Range 5 feet
You fully re-create an object from nothing, even if the object
was destroyed. To do so, you must be able to picture the
object in your mind. Additionally, the material component
must be a remnant of the item, no matter how small or
insignificant (even a speck of dust that remains from
disintegrate is enough). The spell fails if your imagination
relied on too much guesswork; if the object would be too
large to fit in a 5-foot cube; if the object still exists and you
were simply not aware of it; or if the object is an artifact, has
a level over 20, or has similar vast magical power.
The item reassembles in perfect condition. Even if your
mental image was of a damaged or weathered object, the
new one is in this perfected form. If the object was magical,
this spell typically restores its constant magical properties,
but not any temporary ones, such as charges or one-time
uses. An item with charges or uses per day has all of its
uses expended when remade, but it replenishes them
normally thereafter.
REMOVE CURSE
SPELL 4
HEALING
NECROMANCY
Traditions divine, occult
Cast 10 minutes (material, somatic, verbal)
Range touch; Targets 1 creature
Your touch grants a reprieve to a cursed creature. You attempt
to counteract one curse afflicting the target. If the curse
comes from a cursed item or other external source, a success
indicates that the target creature can rid itself of the cursed
item, but it doesn’t remove the curse from the item.
REMOVE DISEASE
SPELL 3
HEALING
NECROMANCY
Traditions divine, primal
Cast 10 minutes (material, somatic, verbal)
Range touch; Targets 1 creature
Healing magic purges disease from a creature’s body. You
attempt to counteract one disease afflicting the target.
REMOVE FEAR
SPELL 2
ENCHANTMENT
Traditions divine, occult, primal
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal
Range touch; Targets 1 creature
With a touch, you ease a creature’s fears. You can attempt
to counteract a single fear effect that the target suffers from.
This frees only the target, not any other creatures under the
fear effect.
Heightened (6th) The spell’s range increases to 30 feet, and
you can target up to 10 creatures.
REMOVE PARALYSIS
SPELL 2
HEALING
NECROMANCY
Traditions divine, occult, primal
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal
Range touch; Targets 1 creature
A surge of energy frees a paralyzed creature. You can attempt
to counteract a single effect imposing the paralyzed condition
on the target. This does not cure someone who is paralyzed
from some natural state or effect, such as paralysis caused by
non-magical wounds or toxins.
Heightened (6th) The spell’s range increases to 30 feet, and
you can target up to 10 creatures.
REPULSION
SPELL 6
ABJURATION
AURA
MENTAL
Traditions arcane, divine, occult
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal
Range emanation up to 40 feet
Saving Throw Will; Duration 1 minute
363
7
SPELLS
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Skills
Feats
Equipment
Spells
The Age of
Lost OMENS
Playing the
Game
Game
mastering
Crafting
& Treasure
Appendix
