VENTRILOQUIST’S RING
ITEM 3+
ILLUSION
 INVESTED
 MAGICAL
Usage worn; Bulk —
This elegant copper ring has miniature
images of songbirds engraved around its
circumference. You gain a +1 item bonus
to Deception checks.
Activate [two-actions] Interact; Frequency
once per day; Effect Twisting the ring
around your finger allows you to magically
throw your voice, with the effects of a
ventriloquism spell (DC 19).
Type ventriloquist’s ring; Level 3; Price 60 gp
Type greater ventriloquist’s ring; Level 9; Price 670 gp
The ring grants a +2 bonus. When you activate the ring,
you gain the effects of 2nd-level ventriloquism (DC 27).
You can activate the ring any number of times per day.
VOYAGER’S PACK
ITEM 17
UNCOMMON
 CONJURATION
 INVESTED
 MAGICAL
Price 14,800 gp
Usage worn backpack; Bulk —
This leather rucksack has icons burned into it,
and every time it’s taken to a plane it hasn’t
been to before, a new icon representing that
plane scorches into the surface. The pack
grants you a +3 bonus to Survival checks.
It also enables you to see the magical traces
of creatures’ passage, allowing you to Track a
creature that has teleported. The GM sets the DC
of this check, usually using the level and DC of the
teleportation spell. This lets you find the location of the
creature’s destination, and you can use that destination
when casting teleport or activating the pack, even though you
don’t know what it looks like.
The pack contains an extradimensional space with the
same properties as a type II bag of holding. This space
contains the contents of a climber’s kit. If any components
of that kit are removed and not returned, they return to the
pack at dawn each day.
Activate 10 minutes (command, envision, Interact);
Effect  As you activate the pack, you can harness up to
four willing creatures to the ropes on the pack. At the end
of the activation time, the pack casts a 7th-level plane shift
or teleport spell, transporting you and everyone attached
to the pack. Attempt a DC 45 Survival check. On a success,
you arrive 25 miles off target using plane shift or halve the
distance you’re off-target with teleport. On a critical success,
you arrive exactly on target.
WAYFINDER
ITEM 2
UNCOMMON
 EVOCATION
 INVESTED
 MAGICAL
Price 28 gp
Usage worn; Bulk —
This compact compass repurposes ancient technology to draw
fantastic powers from the mysterious magical items called
aeon stones. It serves as a badge of office for agents of the
Pathfinder Society and as a status symbol among adventurers
of any stripe. A wayfinder functions as a compass.
An indentation in the middle of the wayfinder can hold a
single aeon stone (page 604). Placing an aeon stone in this
indentation provides you all the benefits of having the aeon
stone orbiting your head, but it protects the stone from being
noticed or stolen as easily. You invest a wayfinder and the
aeon stone within it simultaneously, and they count as only
one item toward your investiture limit. An invested aeon stone
slotted in a wayfinder also grants its resonant power.
If you have more than one wayfinder with
an invested aeon stone on your person at a
given time, destructive interference from
their resonance prevents you from gaining
benefits from any of them. You can
still benefit from additional aeon stones
orbiting your head, just not in wayfinders.
Activate [one-action] command; Effect The wayfinder is
targeted by a 1st-level light spell.
WHISPER OF THE FIRST LIE ITEM 20
RARE
 ENCHANTMENT
 INVESTED
 MAGICAL
Price 60,000 gp
Usage worn; Bulk —
This delicate necklace contains
bottled whispers distilled from a
source on the Astral Plane rumored to
be connected to the first lie ever told.
While wearing the necklace, you gain a +3
item bonus to Deception checks, and you can
attempt to counteract effects that would force
you to tell the truth or determine whether you
are lying. Success on this counteract attempt lets
you ignore the effect, rather than removing the effect
entirely. The counteract level is 9, with a counteract
modifier of +35.
Activate [three-actions] Interact, envision, command; Effect
You unstopper the vial and release the lie, creating the
effect of a fabricated truth (DC 47). The vial is emptied and
can never be activated again.
Craft Requirements Supply a casting of fabricated truth.
WINGED BOOTS
ITEM 10
INVESTED
 MAGICAL
 TRANSMUTATION
Price 850 gp
Usage worn shoes; Bulk L
Made from soft leather, with delicate white wings attached
to the heel, these boots are ensorcelled with powerful air
magic. Whenever you fall while wearing these boots, the
boots automatically cast feather fall on you. This benefit can’t
trigger again for 10 minutes.
Activate [two-actions] command, Interact; Frequency once per day;
Effect You speak a command word and click the boots’ heels
together to cause the wings to animate and flap rapidly,
granting you a fly Speed of 30 feet for 10 minutes.
617
11
Crafting & Treasure
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Skills
Feats
Equipment
Spells
The Age of
Lost OMENS
Playing the
Game
Game
mastering
Crafting
& Treasure
Appendix
