Desna (CG)
The kindly Song of the Spheres presides over
dreams, luck, stars, and travelers. An ancient
goddess, Desna delights in freedom and mystery, and she
encourages her followers to do the same.
Edicts aid fellow travelers, explore new places, express yourself
through art and song, find what life has to offer
Anathema cause fear or despair, cast nightmare or use similar
magic to corrupt dreams, engage in bigoted behavior
Follower Alignments NG, CG, CN
Devotee Benefits
Divine Font heal
Divine Skill Acrobatics
Favored Weapon starknife
Domains dreams, luck, moon, travel
Cleric Spells 1st: sleep, 3rd: dream message, 5th: dreaming
potential
Erastil (LG)
Old Deadeye is god of family, farming,
hunting, and trade. Long ago he was a horned
god of the hunt, but his worship evolved to
focus on rural communities.
Edicts care for your home and family, fulfill your duties, keep
the peace, protect the community
Anathema abandon your home in its time of need, choose
yourself over your community, tarnish your reputation,
tell lies
Follower Alignments LG, NG, LN
Devotee Benefits
Divine Font heal
Divine Skill Survival
Favored Weapon longbow
Domains earth, family, nature, wealth
Cleric Spells 1st: true strike, 3rd: wall of thorns, 5th: tree stride
Gorum (CN)
Soldiers call out prayers to Our Lord in Iron,
god of battle, strength, and weapons. Gorum
emphasizes strength and power, encouraging his followers to
seek out war and combat as the ultimate way to worship him.
Edicts attain victory in fair combat, push your limits, wear
armor in combat
Anathema kill prisoners or surrendering foes, prevent conflict
through negotiation, win a battle through underhanded
tactics or indirect magic
Follower Alignments CN, CE
Devotee Benefits
Divine Font harm or heal
Divine Skill Athletics
Favored Weapon greatsword
Domains confidence, destruction, might, zeal
Cleric Spells 1st: true strike, 2nd: enlarge, 4th: weapon storm
Gozreh (N)
A deity of two aspects, known as the Wind
and the Waves, Gozreh rules over nature,
the sea, and weather. Gozreh is popular with
druids and those who seek to preserve the wilds.
Edicts cherish, protect, and respect nature in all its forms
Anathema bring civilization to intrude on the wild, create
undead, despoil areas of natural beauty
Follower Alignments NG, LN, N, CN, NE
Devotee Benefits
Divine Font heal
Divine Skill Survival
Favored Weapon trident
Domains air, nature, travel, water
Cleric Spells 1st: gust of wind, 3rd: lightning bolt, 5th: control
water
Iomedae (LG)
Iomedae is goddess of honor, justice, rulership, and
valor, and she is called the Inheritor because she
inherited her mantle when the god of humanity
perished. Prior to her ascension, Iomedae walked
the planet as a mortal. Many paladins follow her faith.
Edicts be temperate, fight for justice and honor, hold valor in
your heart
Anathema abandon a companion in need, dishonor yourself,
refuse a challenge from an equal
Follower Alignments LG, NG
Devotee Benefits
Divine Font heal
Divine Skill Intimidation
Favored Weapon longsword
Domains confidence, might, truth, zeal
Cleric Spells 1st: true strike, 2nd: see invisibility, 4th: fire shield
Irori (LN)
When the Master of Masters attained true
enlightenment, he became a god of history,
knowledge, and self-perfection. Irori promotes discipline and
teaches that one who can master themself finds the greatest
benefits the world can provide.
Edicts be humble; help others perfect themselves; hone
your body, mind, and spirit to a more perfect state;
practice discipline
Anathema become addicted to a substance, destroy an important
historical text, repeatedly fail to maintain self-control
Follower Alignments LG, LN, LE
Devotee Benefits
Divine Font harm or heal
Divine Skill Athletics
Favored Weapon fist
Domains knowledge, might, perfection, truth
Cleric Spells 1st: jump, 3rd: haste, 4th: stoneskin
Core Rulebook
438
