or otherwise using that hand. When you’re not wielding
anything and not otherwise using the hand, you can use
abilities that require you to have a hand free as well as those
that require you to be wielding a weapon in that hand. Each
of your hands can have only one free‑hand weapon on it.
Gnome: Gnomes craft and use these weapons.
Goblin: Goblins craft and use these weapons.
Grapple: You can use this weapon to Grapple with the
Athletics skill even if you don’t have a free hand. This
uses the weapon’s reach (if different from your own) and
adds the weapon’s item bonus to attack rolls as an item
bonus to the Athletics check. If you critically fail a check
to Grapple using the weapon, you can drop the weapon
to take the effects of a failure instead of a critical failure.
Halfling: Halflings craft and use these weapons.
Jousting: The weapon is suited for mounted combat
with a harness or similar means. When mounted, if you
moved at least 10 feet on the action before your attack,
add a circumstance bonus to damage for that attack
equal to the number of damage dice for the weapon. In
addition, while mounted, you can wield the weapon in
one hand, changing the damage die to the listed value.
Monk: Many monks learn to use these weapons.
Nonlethal: Attacks with this weapon are nonlethal
(page 453), and are used to knock creatures unconscious
instead of kill them. You can use a nonlethal weapon to
make a lethal attack with a –2 circumstance penalty.
Orc: Orcs craft and use these weapons.
Parry: This weapon can be used defensively to block
attacks. While wielding this weapon, if your proficiency
with it is trained or better, you can spend an Interact
action to position your weapon defensively, gaining a +1
circumstance bonus to AC until the start of your next turn.
Propulsive: You add half your Strength modifier
(if positive) to damage rolls with a propulsive ranged
weapon. If you have a negative Strength modifier, you
add your full Strength modifier instead.
Reach: This weapon is long and can be used to attack
creatures up to 10 feet away instead of only adjacent
creatures. For creatures that already have reach with
the limb or limbs that wield the weapon, the weapon
increases their reach by 5 feet.
Shove: You can use this weapon to Shove with the
Athletics skill even if you don’t have a free hand. This
uses the weapon’s reach (if different from your own) and
adds the weapon’s item bonus to attack rolls as an item
bonus to the Athletics check. If you critically fail a check
to Shove using the weapon, you can drop the weapon to
take the effects of a failure instead of a critical failure.
Sweep: This weapon makes wide sweeping or spinning
attacks, making it easier to attack multiple enemies. When
you attack with this weapon, you gain a +1 circumstance
bonus to your attack roll if you already attempted to
attack a different target this turn using this weapon.
Thrown: You can throw this weapon as a ranged
attack. A thrown weapon adds your Strength modifier to
damage just like a melee weapon does. When this trait
appears on a melee weapon, it also includes the range
increment. Ranged weapons with this trait use the range
increment specified in the weapon’s Range entry.
Trip: You can use this weapon to Trip with the Athletics
skill even if you don’t have a free hand. This uses the
weapon’s reach (if different from your own) and adds the
weapon’s item bonus to attack rolls as an item bonus to
the Athletics check. If you critically fail a check to Trip
using the weapon, you can drop the weapon to take the
effects of a failure instead of a critical failure.
Twin: These weapons are used as a pair, complementing
each other. When you attack with a twin weapon, you
add a circumstance bonus to the damage roll equal to the
weapon’s number of damage dice if you have previously
attacked with a different weapon of the same type this
turn. The weapons must be of the same type to benefit
from this trait, but they don’t need to have the same runes.
Two-Hand: This weapon can be wielded with two
hands. Doing so changes its weapon damage die to the
indicated value. This change applies to all the weapon’s
damage dice, such as those from striking runes.
Unarmed: An unarmed attack uses your body rather
than a manufactured weapon. An unarmed attack isn’t a
weapon, though it’s categorized with weapons for weapon
groups, and it might have weapon traits. Since it’s part of
your body, an unarmed attack can’t be Disarmed. It also
doesn’t take up a hand, though a fist or other grasping
appendage follows the same rules as a free-hand weapon.
Versatile: A versatile weapon can be used to deal a
different type of damage than that listed in the Damage
entry. This trait indicates the alternate damage type. For
instance, a piercing weapon that is versatile S can be
used to deal piercing or slashing damage. You choose the
damage type each time you make an attack.
Volley: This ranged weapon is less effective at close
distances. Your attacks against targets that are at a
distance within the range listed take a –2 penalty.
Critical Specialization
Effects
Certain feats, class features, weapon runes, and other
effects can grant you additional benefits when you make
an attack with certain weapons and get a critical success.
This is called a critical specialization effect. The exact
effect depends on which weapon group your weapon
belongs to, as listed below. You can always decide not to
add the critical specialization effect of your weapon.
Axe: Choose one creature adjacent to the initial target
and within reach. If its AC is lower than your attack roll
result for the critical hit, you deal damage to that creature
equal to the result of the weapon damage die you rolled
(including extra dice for its potency rune, if any). This
amount isn’t doubled, and no bonuses or other additional
dice apply to this damage.
EQUIPMENT
6
283
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Skills
Feats
Equipment
Spells
The Age of
Lost OMENS
Playing the
Game
Game
mastering
Crafting
& Treasure
Appendix
