FIREBALL RUNE
HAZARD 5
EVOCATION
FIRE
MAGICAL
TRAP
Stealth DC 24 (expert)
Description An invisible rune creates an invisible, spherical
magical sensor with a 20-foot radius.
Disable Thievery DC 22 (expert) to erase the rune without
triggering the sensor, or dispel magic (3rd level; counteract
DC 20) to counteract the rune
Fireball [reaction] (arcane, evocation, fire); Trigger A living creature
enters the sensor area. Effect The rune detonates a fireball
centered on the triggering creature’s square. This is a 3rd-
level fireball spell that deals 6d6 fire damage (DC 22 basic
Reflex save).
HALLUCINATION POWDER TRAP
HAZARD 6
MECHANICAL
TRAP
Stealth DC 24 (expert)
Description A tube of hallucinogenic powder armed with a
miniature explosive is connected to a doorknob or similar latch.
Disable Thievery DC 26 (expert) to disable the hammer that
strikes the percussion cap
AC 24; Fort +0, Ref +0
Hardness 0, HP 1; Immunities critical hits, object immunities,
precision damage
Powder Burst [reaction] (mental, poison); Trigger The latch is opened
or the tube is broken. Effect The tube explodes, spraying
hallucinogenic powder in a 30-foot cone. Any creature in
the cone must succeed at a DC 24 Will save or be confused
for 1 round and take a –2 status penalty to Perception
checks and saves against mental effects for 1d4 hours. On a
critical failure, the penalty is instead –4.
PHARAOH’S WARD
HAZARD 7
MAGICAL
TRAP
Stealth DC 25 (expert)
Description A curse is imbued on an entryway’s threshold.
Disable Thievery DC 27 (master) to painstakingly remove the
lintel without triggering the magic, or dispel magic (4th
level; counteract DC 25) to counteract the rune
Curse the Intruders [reaction] (curse, divine, necromancy); Trigger The
seal on the tomb is broken from the outside. Effect Each living
creature within 60 feet must succeed at a DC 23 Will save or
be subjected to the pharaoh’s curse. A cursed creature takes
a –2 status penalty to Fortitude saves, and any natural or
magical healing it receives is halved. The curse remains until
removed by remove curse or similar magic.
Reset The trap resets when the door is shut.
YELLOW MOLD
HAZARD 8
ENVIRONMENTAL
FUNGUS
Stealth DC 28 (trained)
Description Poisonous mold spores assault nearby creatures.
Disable Survival DC 26 (expert) to remove the mold without
triggering the spores
AC 27; Fort +17, Ref +13
HP 70; Immunities critical hits, object immunities, precision damage
Spore Explosion [reaction] Trigger A creature moves into the mold’s
space or damages the mold. The mold can’t use this reaction
if it’s in direct sunlight or if the damage was fire damage.
Effect The triggering creature and all creatures within 10
feet are exposed to yellow mold spores.
Yellow Mold Spores (inhaled, poison) Any drained condition
from the spores persists after the poison’s duration ends;
Saving Throw DC 26 Fortitude; Maximum Duration 6
rounds; Stage 1 1d8 poison damage and drained 1 (1 round);
Stage 2 2d8 poison damage and drained 2 (1 round); Stage
3 3d8 poison damage and drained 3 (1 round)
BOTTOMLESS PIT
HAZARD 9
MAGICAL
MECHANICAL
TRAP
Stealth DC 30 (or 0 if the trapdoor is disabled or broken) or
detect magic
Description An iron trapdoor covers an infinitely deep
10-foot‑square pit.
Disable Thievery DC 28 (trained) to remove the trapdoor
AC 28; Fort +12, Ref +12
Trapdoor Hardness 9, Trapdoor HP 36 (BT 18); Immunities
critical hits, object immunities, precision damage
Infinite Pitfall [reaction] Trigger A creature walks onto the trapdoor.
Effect The triggering creature falls in and continues to fall,
potentially forever. That creature can try to Grab an Edge to
avoid falling (page 472). The DC to Climb the walls or Grab
an Edge is 26.
The pit contains many handholds, so the falling creature
can try to Grab an Edge again every 6 seconds. If the
creature succeeds, it can start to Climb out from that point
(though it might be a very long climb, depending on how
far the creature fell). Since the creature falls endlessly, it
can rest and even prepare spells while falling, though items
dropped while falling are usually lost forever.
Reset The trap still causes creatures to fall forever if they fall
in, but the trapdoor must be reset manually for the trap to
become hidden again.
BLOODTHIRSTY URGE
HAZARD 10
HAUNT
Stealth DC 31 (trained)
Description An object haunted by the echoes of a vicious mind
attempts to kill someone who comes near.
Disable Religion DC 29 (master) to exorcise the spirit or
Diplomacy DC 31 (expert) to talk it down
Quietus [reaction] (death, emotion, fear, illusion, mental, occult);
Trigger A creature moves within 10 feet of the haunted
object. Effect The haunt takes control of the triggering
creature, forcing it to attack itself. The creature must
attempt a DC 29 Will save.
Critical Success The target is unaffected.
Success The target makes a Strike against itself and automatically
hits; the target also becomes frightened 1.
Failure The target makes a Strike against itself and automatically
scores a critical hit; the target also becomes frightened 2.
Critical Failure The target attempts a Fortitude save. If the
Core Rulebook
524
