KNOW DIRECTION
CANTRIP 1
CANTRIP
DETECTION
DIVINATION
Traditions divine, occult, primal
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal
In your mind’s eye, you see a path northward. You immediately
know which direction is north (if it exists at your current location).
Heightened (7th) You can instead know the direction to a
familiar location, such as a previous home or a favorite tavern.
LEVITATE
SPELL 3
EVOCATION
Traditions arcane, occult
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal
Range touch; Targets 1 unattended object or willing creature
Duration 5 minutes
You defy gravity and levitate the target 5 feet off the ground.
For the duration of the spell, you can move the target up or
down 10 feet with a single action, which has the concentrate
trait. A creature floating in the air from levitate takes a –2
circumstance penalty to attack rolls. A floating creature can
spend an Interact action to stabilize itself and negate this
penalty for the remainder of its turn. If the target is adjacent to
a fixed object or terrain of suitable stability, it can move across
the surface by climbing (if the surface is vertical, like a wall) or
crawling (if the surface is horizontal, such as a ceiling). The GM
determines which surfaces can be climbed or crawled across.
LIGHT
CANTRIP 1
CANTRIP
EVOCATION
LIGHT
Traditions arcane, divine, occult, primal
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal
Range touch; Targets 1 unattended, non-magical object of 1
Bulk or less
Duration until the next time you make your daily preparations
The object glows, casting bright light in a 20-foot radius (and
dim light for the next 20 feet) like a torch. If you cast this spell
again on a second object, the light spell on the first object ends.
Heightened (4th) The object sheds bright light in a 60-foot
radius (and dim light for the next 60 feet).
LIGHTNING BOLT
SPELL 3
ELECTRICITY
EVOCATION
Traditions arcane, primal
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal
Area 120-foot line
Saving Throw basic Reflex
A bolt of lightning strikes outward from your hand, dealing
4d12 electricity damage.
Heightened (+1) The damage increases by 1d12.
LOCATE
SPELL 3
UNCOMMON
DETECTION
DIVINATION
Traditions arcane, divine, occult
Cast 10 minutes (material, somatic, verbal)
Range 500 feet; Targets 1 specific object or type of object
Duration sustained
You learn the direction to the target (if you picked a specific
object, such as “my mother’s sword”) or the nearest target (if
you picked a type of object, such as “swords”). If the target is
a specific object, you must have observed it directly with your
own senses. If it’s a type of object, you still need to have an
accurate mental image of the type of object. If there’s lead or
running water between you and the target, this spell can’t
locate the object. This means you might find a type of object
farther away if the nearest one is behind lead or running water.
Heightened (5th) You can target a specific creature or ancestry
instead of an object, but you must have met or seen up close
the creature or ancestry you want to target.
LOCK
SPELL 1
ABJURATION
Traditions arcane, divine, occult
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal
Range touch; Targets 1 lock, or a door or container with a latch
Duration 1 day
The target’s latch mechanism clinks shut, held fast by unseen
magical restraints. When you magically lock a target, you set
an Athletics and Thievery DC to open it equal to your spell DC
or the base lock DC with a +4 status bonus, whichever is higher.
Any key or combination that once opened a lock affected by
this spell does not do so for the duration of the spell, though
the key or combination does grant a +4 circumstance bonus to
checks to open the door.
If the target is opened, the spell ends. Assuming the target
is not barred or locked in some additional way, you can unlock
and open it with an Interact action during which you touch the
target. This does not end the spell. You can Dismiss this spell
at any time and from any distance.
Heightened (2nd) The duration increases to unlimited, but you
must expend 6 gp worth of gold dust as an additional cost.
LONGSTRIDER
SPELL 1
TRANSMUTATION
Traditions arcane, primal
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal
Duration 1 hour
You lengthen your stride beyond what should be possible. You
gain a +10-foot status bonus to your Speed.
Heightened (2nd) The duration increases to 8 hours.
MAGE ARMOR
SPELL 1
ABJURATION
Traditions arcane, occult
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal
Duration until the next time you make your daily preparations
You ward yourself with shimmering magical energy, gaining
a +1 item bonus to AC and a maximum Dexterity modifier
of +5. While wearing mage armor, you use your unarmored
proficiency to calculate your AC.
Heightened (4th) You gain a +1 item bonus to saving throws.
Heightened (6th) The item bonus to AC increases to +2, and
you gain a +1 item bonus to saving throws.
Core Rulebook
348
