BUILDING WORLDS
As a Game Master, you control the details of the world your players explore. The Age of
Lost Omens campaign setting is a lush world suitable for countless adventures, but you
might prefer to adventure in entirely new worlds, where every aspect of the setting and
story is yours to decide!
Building your own campaign world can be a deeply
fulfilling creative process, as it lets you bring to life the
exact setting you envision. It gives you great flexibility,
in that you can build only as much as you need for the
next few adventures, and you can adapt the world on
the fly to meet the demands of your story. It also gives
you great control, allowing you to build precisely the
setting you need for the story you want to tell. Finally, it
bypasses some of the issues that can come with playing
within an existing campaign setting, where you might
create a narrative that contradicts published canon, or
your players might stumble across major plot or setting
spoilers. Whatever your world‑building goals, this chapter
guides you through the design process step by step.
DESIGN APPROACH
World building can be approached in many ways, but it
fundamentally comes down to a simple preference. Do
you start at a high level and zoom in, or do you start small
and build up? This section outlines a largely top‑down
approach, but you can design from the bottom up
simply by starting at the end of this section and working
backwards. Either way, you may find yourself skipping
between sections as inspiration strikes—and that’s OK!
When building a world, there’s a risk of becoming
overwhelmed by the sheer number of decisions to be
made. Remember that you don’t need to make every
decision for every aspect of your world all at once. Focus
first on the elements you need for your story and the
game, then add as much of the rest as you’d like. You’ll
also want to allow room for input from your players—
gaming sessions are more memorable and engaging when
the storytelling experience is shared between everyone
at the table (page 32 has more information on players
contributing to the narrative).
Before you decide anything else, however, you should
establish your concept and your goals. Do you envision
a high‑magic steampunk setting where humans are a
tiny minority? A world where the only magic derives
from squabbling pantheons of gods whose followers
are caught up in their wars for power? A quaint town
isolated from an otherwise‑unknown world beyond a
vast, impenetrable forest of mist‑choked, skeletal trees?
Are you designing a world for a multi‑year campaign,
or for a fast‑paced one‑shot adventure? Having an idea
in mind will help steer your choices as you build your
world, and knowing your goals will help you focus on
building what you need.
TOP DOWN
The top‑down approach is great if you have a lot of time
to dedicate to world building. When designing a setting
from the top down, your initial focus is on the big picture.
You may already have an idea of the big movers and
shakers of your world or your multiverse. You may want
to chronicle a thousand years or more of the setting’s
history. You may have already sketched out a world map
with continents, nations, and trade routes spanning the
globe. This approach begins with broad generalities that
get more detailed as you design and during play.
BOTTOM UP
With a bottom‑up approach to world building, you
start small and local. Focus on the starting location and
immediate needs of your campaign, then expand outward
as the story unfolds. This strategy works well for those
with less time to devote to world building, as you need to
prepare only the minimum detail necessary to entice your
players toward adventure, fleshing out your world only
as the campaign requires it.
THE WORLD
While world building might include building much more
than a single planet, most adventures occur entirely on
one world. It’s a good idea to have a broad understanding
of that world as a whole.
PLANETARY BASICS
When designing the physical features of a campaign
world, you’ll want to determine its shape and the general
distribution of landmasses. You can also establish the
world’s size, though note the scale of a world generally has
a fairly small impact on the adventures taking place there.
Shape
In a fantasy setting, the shape of your world need not be
spherical as governed by the laws of physics. It could be
any shape you desire, and it need not be a planet at all!
Globe: Barring some catastrophe, worlds in our reality
are roughly spherical due to the influence of gravity.
Hollow World: What if the landmasses and civilizations
of a world existed on the inner surface of a hollow sphere?
In such a world, the horizon would climb upwards,
permitting creatures to see landmarks at extraordinary
distances. Light might emanate from a sun‑like orb in
the world’s center, from various other natural or magical
sources, or not at all.
Gamemastery Guide
122
122
