damage to you every round. If you die from this damage, you
rise as an undead of an equal level in 1d4 rounds.
Activate [free-action] envision; Trigger You touch a creature as part
of an unarmed attack or melee spell attack roll; Effect The
creature takes 5d6 negative damage. If you are an undead,
you regain Hit Points equal to the negative damage the
creature took.
Activate [three-actions] command; Frequency once per day; Effect
The Horns of Naraga transform into Naraga, an ancient
black dragon (Bestiary 106). Naraga appears in an adjacent
appropriate space, and if no such space is available, she
does not appear. Naraga follows your commands without
question. She remains for up to 1 hour or until you use an
Interact action to dismiss her, after which she reverts
back to the helm. If Naraga is slain, she immediately
reverts back to the helm and can’t be summoned
for 1 week. You don’t receive any of the helm’s
other benefits while it is transformed.
Destruction The helm is utterly obliterated if
crushed between the jaws of an ancient black
dragon’s skull located in a desert while the sun
is at its zenith.
MIRROR OF SORSHEN
ITEM 25
UNIQUE
ARTIFACT
ENCHANTMENT
MAGICAL
Usage bonded (see below); Bulk L
The silvery glass of this oval mirror displays
alluring sights. Its dark wooden frame is
studded with small green gems and is carved
with the shapes of a male figure on one edge of
the glass and a female figure on the other side.
The mirror can form a bond with a spellcaster who
has legendary proficiency in Arcana or Occultism, who
becomes the mirror’s owner. Regardless of where the
mirror is, as long as the bond remains, the owner is
aware of everything the mirror is currently reflecting
and can use the mirror’s activations.
Whenever an intelligent creature looks in the
mirror, they see an image of a person, creature,
or item they find irresistible—most often one they
find attractive. The specific image varies depending on the
observer, even when more than one creature is looking into
the mirror at the same time. Observers are fascinated by
the images in the mirror unless they succeed at a DC 35
Will save each round. On a failure, they stare blankly at
the mirror for as long as it remains in view, and if it leaves
their view, they stare toward the last place they saw the
mirror for several minutes thereafter. This is an emotion,
enchantment, incapacitation, and visual effect. Creatures
that are fascinated by the mirror are so deeply entranced
that they don’t end their fascinated condition automatically
even if a creature uses hostile actions against them or their
allies; instead, they can attempt a DC 30 Will save to end the
fascination. At the GM’s discretion, a truly innocent creature
or a creature that has renounced all worldly pleasures might
be immune to the mirror’s fascination.
Activate [two-actions] envision (emotion, enchantment, incapacitation,
visual); Effect You force a creature looking at the mirror
to attempt an additional Will save against the mirror’s
fascination effect, even if they succeeded at their save.
Activate
[three-actions]
command
(emotion,
enchantment,
incapacitation); Requirements The target must be
fascinated by the mirror; Effect You control the target for
30 days, with the effect of a critically failed saving throw
against dominate. If the victim sees the mirror again at any
point before this duration expires, the control extends for
an additional 30 days from the moment it looked at the
mirror again. While there is no initial saving throw, the
DC to break free due to commands against the creature’s
nature is 35.
Destruction The Mirror of Sorshen shatters into a thousand
pieces if an intelligent but completely innocent creature
resists the mirror’s attraction and then accidentally
drops it.
ORB OF DRAGONKIND
ITEM 25
UNIQUE
ARCANE
ARTIFACT
ENCHANTMENT
Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk 1
Each of the legendary orbs of dragonkind
contains the essence and personality of a
powerful dragon, with each of the 10 most
famous orbs preserving a different type
of metallic or chromatic dragon’s spirit. It
is believed that orbs for other types of true
dragons exist, though that theory is yet to
be confirmed.
While holding an orb of dragonkind, you are
immune to the breath weapon of the dragon variety
associated with the orb. An orb of dragonkind also grants
a number of additional senses. You can communicate
verbally and visually with the bearers of other orbs as
if you were in the same room with them. You know if
there are any dragons within 10 miles of you at all
times; this extends to 100 miles for dragons of
the type associated with the orb. If an associated
dragon is within 1 mile, you know which direction the
dragon is from you and the dragon’s age, such as young, adult,
or ancient. Each orb grants a 10th‑level arcane innate spell
that you can cast at will, determined by the specific orb.
The Orb of Gold Dragonkind can convey the innate spells of
any of the other orbs, as well as their activated abilities, but it
can grant each individual power only once per day. In addition,
the bearer of the gold orb can use its 3‑action activation to
attempt to cast dominate on the bearer of another orb if
they are within 1 mile, as if that bearer were a dragon of the
associated type within 500 feet. The last reports of the Orb
of Gold Dragonkind on Golarion indicate the orb has been
destroyed, however. GMs running campaigns in settings other
than the Age of Lost Omens might decide the gold orb is still
intact for their campaigns.
Bearing an orb of dragonkind earns you the enmity
of all dragonkind forever because you profited from the
Gamemastery Guide
110
110
