BUILDING CREATURES
Making your own creatures fleshes out your game world and lets you introduce concepts not yet
available in published products like the Bestiary volumes. These guidelines help you customize
creatures to your specifications and explore your imagination. From strange beasts to canny
political rivals, you have the power to design creatures that fit the narrative needs of your story.
Creatures aren’t built the same way PCs are. The rules for
building them are more flexible, and their statistics are
based on benchmark final numbers rather than combining
each individual modifier together. This is called top-down
design, in which you consider the design process as a
whole and select the details that reflect your intended
result, rather than building statistics from the bottom up
and hoping the finished creature matches your vision.
This guide provides a step-by-step process to build
creatures, but as you get more comfortable with creature
creation, you may prefer to use different methods. You
could start with one ability you think is cool, or you might
look to create a spellcaster of a certain type. There’s no
wrong starting place or wrong way to compile and present
your creation; some GMs prefer to generate a stat block
that is as similar to an official Bestiary entry as possible,
while others prefer to compile just a brief set of notes.
DEVELOP THE CONCEPT
To begin making a creature, you should first come up
with its concept. You likely already have the basic idea. As
you add details to the general idea, taking notes can help
keep your creature on track. Consider the parts of your
creature you find most compelling and that you want
to emphasize when the creature hits the table. For
example, in the Bestiary, demons are creatures of
sin, and are designed to have weaknesses against
specific virtues that oppose them. Harpies
enchant creatures by singing, represented by their
centerpiece ability, Captivating Song. Note your
creature’s core aspects, and if you feel uncertain
later, you can look back and ask yourself, “Does
this emphasize a core aspect or not?”
Next, look at the creature’s role in your game.
Is it meant to be a combatant? A social creature?
A trusted ally? Figuring this out will help you
determine whether to give it strong combat abilities
or to focus on skills, spells, and special abilities. Think about
how the creature might behave if it’s in a fight, if someone
tries to talk to it, or if it’s in a social situation. Does it work
better alone or with allies? What sort of character should be
best at facing it or be particularly weak against it?
Consider also the complexity of the creature. This
matters most when you plan to use a large number of
creatures of that type. If you’ll use five at the same time,
you’ll want their turns to move swiftly and avoid complex
special actions. A creature likely to face a group of PCs alone
can have more abilities, and it might need a more versatile
Gamemastery Guide
56
56
