RUNNING EXPLORATION
Exploration covers a wide variety of situations, letting the group’s creativity and storytelling
shine. You can also use it to control the pace of the game, guided by the number of
interesting locations and phenomena in the area being explored and the level of detail you
want to go into.
The Core Rulebook discusses running exploration mode
starting on page 496 of that book, and this section
supplements that information. If you want to run a session
or adventure specifically focused on exploring and mapping
uncharted wilds, consider using the hexploration subsystem
on page 170. If you’re looking for guidelines on managing
initiative, see page 11 in the Running Encounters section.
As you run exploration, keep the following basic goals
in mind. You’ll find more advice on many of these points
in the sections ahead.
• Evoke the setting with sensory details.
• Shift the passage of time to emphasize tension and
uncertainty, and speed past uneventful intervals.
• Get players to add details by asking for their reactions.
• Present small-scale mysteries to intrigue players and
spur investigation.
• When rolls are needed, look for ways to move the
action forward or add interesting wrinkles on a failure.
• Plan effective transitions to encounters.
EVOCATIVE
ENVIRONMENTS
As the PCs explore, convey their surroundings by
appealing to the players’ senses. This sets the scene,
gives them a better sense of their environment, and can
be used to foreshadow what they might find ahead.
When determining which details to cover, think about
what’s familiar versus novel. A new dungeon might have
similar architecture to previous ones but feature ancient
structures that set it apart. You can use the PCs’ familiarity
as a tool to single out what’s new. When preparing for a
game, imagine yourself in the environment and jot down
a few notes about what you would sense. Conveying these
details keeps the players on the same page about what
they sense, even if each character responds to it differently.
Keep in mind that the more you explain something, the
more important it seems. This is valuable for you to drive
interest, but can also be a mixed blessing, since describing
something inconsequential to set the mood can lead players
off on a tangent. Sometimes, the best solution is to find a
way to make that unimportant thing as important as the
players think it is!
FLOW OF TIME
As noted in the Core Rulebook, you rarely measure
exploration down to the second or minute. If someone
asks how long something takes, the nearest 10-minute
increment typically does the job. (For long voyages, the
nearest hour might be more appropriate.) You convey the
passage of time through your descriptions, but not just by
addressing it outright. In a roleplaying game, information
and time are linked. Time will seem to slow down the
more detail you give. Think cinematically! A long voyage
through a series of tunnels works well as a montage,
whereas progress searching a statue for traps could be a
relayed as a series of distressing details in quick succession,
and would feel more tense due to that precision.
With that in mind, when is it best to speed up or slow
down the passage of game time? Usually, you’ll slow
down and give more description when you’re establishing
something or progressing the story. When the PCs enter
a dungeon or a new area, describe how it feels, slowing
down to give the players a sense of what’s ahead. When
a PC stops to do something important or makes a key
decision, and slowing down gives that moment its desired
weight. You can also adjust the flow of time to reflect
PCs’ mental states. As a PC returns home after decades
away, you might pause to ask the player what their PC
is feeling, matching time to the rush of memories and
emotions filling that PC’s thoughts.
EXPLORATION
ACTIVITIES
As described starting on page 479 of the Core Rulebook,
PCs will undertake exploration activities while they
explore. The purpose of these activities within the game is
to clarify what a PC focuses on as they explore rather than
being able to unrealistically do all things simultaneously.
This adds variety within the group’s behavior and can
show you where players want the story to go. For example,
a player whose PC is Investigating carvings on the walls
shows you that the player wants those to be informative.
Exploration activities that happen continually as
the group explores are meant to be narrative first and
foremost, with the player describing to you what they’re
doing, and then you determining which an activity applies,
plus any details or alterations for the situation. If a player
says, “I’m Avoiding Notice,” add more detail by asking
what precautions they’re taking or by telling them which
passages they think are least guarded. Likewise, if a player
says they’re looking for traps and keeping their shield
raised and covering the group’s tracks, ask them which is
most important to narrow down the activity. Consider the
advantages and disadvantages of an activity given current
circumstances. For instance, someone Scouting might
encounter thin ice and fall through before their group can
1
Gamemastery Basics
1717
introduction
Gamemastery
Basics
Tools
Subsystems
Variant Rules
NPC Gallery
GLOSSARY
and INDEX
