isn’t always a bad thing. If the group is interested in moving
on, there’s nothing wrong with ending the campaign and
starting something different.
PROBLEMATIC PLAYERS
Most players who cause problems do so unintentionally—
perhaps bringing out-of-game issues and stresses to the
table. You shouldn’t immediately jump on every instance
of problematic play—everyone has a bad night on
occasion. However, if someone disrupts the game on an
ongoing basis, you owe it to all the players to deal with
the problem. If you don’t, bad feelings, grudges, and even
ruined friendships could result.
Handling a problematic player requires tact: making
demands in front of the rest of the group is rarely the
best way to resolve the problem. Attempt to handle the
problem privately away from the game, or call a break to
have a private conversation if the situation is really urgent.
As with all emotionally charged conversations, email, text
messages and the like can lose the subtlety of speech—it’s
better to meet the player face to face, if possible.
Here are some problematic behaviors that often come
up and might require you to intervene.
• Obsessing over the letter of the rules.
• Constantly “helping” other players make the optimal
choice on their turn.
• Making their character the center of attention,
without allowing space for other players.
Other behaviors are unacceptable and must be dealt
with firmly and decisively. These can be severe enough to
pause the game in progress. Such actions speak to a deeper
problem and require more drastic action to solve.
• Repeatedly arguing with decisions made by other
players or the GM.
• Ignoring other players’ opinions.
• Deliberately derailing the adventure’s plot.
• Being deliberately rude or cruel to other players—
especially if it’s on the basis of their ethnicity, gender,
sexual orientation, political or religious affiliation, the
color of their skin, or the like.
SAFETY TOOLS
Introducing and using safety tools at your table can help
head off some problematic behaviors. The X-Card and
Lines and Veils tools described on page 485 of the Core
Rulebook allow anyone who feels uncomfortable or
unsafe to express their discomfort, with clear guidance
on how the rest of the table should respond. This clarity
sets obvious boundaries to help enforce the social rules
of the table.
EJECTING A PLAYER
Ultimately, there is no place for a serially or deliberately
disruptive player in your gaming group. Such behavior is
not fair to you or the other players, and the problem player
needs to either modify their behavior or leave the group.
CHEATING
Players rarely cheat knowingly, so if you suspect a player of
cheating, it’s safe to assume first that they’re unaware of—or
simply forgot—how an aspect of the rules works. A gentle
reminder of how the rule, spell, or ability in question functions
is usually enough to move past the situation. Every once in
a great while, you’ll encounter a player who is deliberately
cheating. The spirit of roleplaying is one of cooperative
storytelling and overcoming challenges together, so one
player cheating steals fun from every other player at the
table. It’s natural to feel some anger in this situation, so make
sure you let some time pass between when you discover that
a player is cheating and when you address it with them.
Ultimately, it will fall to you as the GM to gently make
it clear that this behavior must stop. To do this well,
think carefully about why the player is cheating before
approaching them. The reason behind the cheating often
points to a reasonable solution. When discussing the matter
with your player, do your best to remain calm and inquisitive
rather than accusatory.
Before meeting with the problem player, discuss the
situation with the other players in private to ensure you
make the right call, and figure out what repercussions you
expect and whether the game should continue at all.
When you break the news to the problem player, be
compassionate but firmly state the decision is final and
restate which behaviors are responsible. If parts of having
the player in the game were rewarding or you want the
player to remain a friend, make that clear and decide if a
player’s behavior merits other changes to your relationship.
POWER IMBALANCES
You might end up with one PC who outshines everyone else.
Perhaps the player is a rules expert with a powerful character,
other players are less experienced or more focused on the
story of their characters, or there’s just a rules combination
or item that’s stronger than you expected. In any case, this
imbalance might mean you have other players who feel
ineffective, or the overpowered character’s player becomes
bored because they aren’t challenged during gameplay.
Talk to the player between sessions, and make it clear
that no one at the table is to blame in this situation. Most
players have no problem making some concessions for the
happiness of the group. If the problem results from rules
options, offer an easy way to retrain. If the imbalance
resulted from an item, come up with a way that item might
need to be lost or sacrificed, but in a satisfying way that
furthers the narrative.
If you meet resistance from the player, listen to their
counterpoints. If you’re still convinced they need to
change, you might need to be more firm.
It’s worth stating that players might still have fun, or even
enjoy an instance of power imbalance. You don’t have to do
anything to address it unless it limits fun at your table.
1
Gamemastery Basics
3131
introduction
Gamemastery
Basics
Tools
Subsystems
Variant Rules
NPC Gallery
GLOSSARY
and INDEX
