MORAL INTENTIONS
In this variant, every character, NPC, and monster selects one or more closely held
beliefs, intentions, or loyalties. Simple statements about a character’s intentions, like
the examples listed in the sidebar, flesh out characters and enliven roleplaying scenes.
This system requires some back-and-forth between the GM and the other players,
and more thought on the part of everyone at the table.
Typically, specifying three intentions or loyalties works well to define a character.
These personal intentions cover broad spectra of behavior and in large part define
the subjective definition of good for that individual. Intentions could be as abstract
as acting with honor or as concrete as devotion to the character’s mother. A person
following their core beliefs or intentions feels like they are acting in a good manner,
and they are likely to view actions against or restrictions to these beliefs as evil. For
example, a character who believes strongly in the law would see allowing a crime to
go unpunished as evil.
A specific individual will likely have different levels of commitment for each of
their intentions. Determine a relative order of commitment by considering what the
character would do if these intentions came into conflict.
RULES ADJUSTMENTS
Alignment restrictions no longer exist in either major variant. You can
replace them with edicts and anathema, if necessary, and make the
following other adjustments.
Aligned dAmAge
If you’re using the no alignment variant, remove or
replace aligned damage (chaotic, evil, good, and
lawful damage), which requires significant
adjustments for creatures like angels and
devils that were built with a weakness to
aligned damage. One option is to replace
them one-for-one with new damage types
like “radiant” and “shadow” that don’t have
any moral assumptions. Another option is to simply change the damage
type needed for creature weaknesses to some other damage type on
a case-by-case basis. A third option is to remove the weaknesses,
reduce the monsters’ maximum Hit Points, and call it good. No
matter what you do with creatures, you’ll also have to replace
abilities like the champion’s that deal aligned damage in a
similar way, or remove those abilities.
If you’re using the moral intentions variant, you
can replace chaotic, evil, good, and lawful
damage with a single type of damage called
aligned damage, which harms those with intentions directly
opposed to those held by the character, as determined by you
as GM.
detection
Alignment-detecting effects don’t exist. In the moral intentions
variant, you might replace such an ability with one that detects
whether a creature is following its own intentions, or to
detect others with similar intentions to the creature using
the ability.
trAits
Alignment traits don’t exist, and anything that has those traits loses them. Effects
that require the traits to function, like protection, don’t exist.
EXAMPLE MORAL
INTENTIONS
• I will never let my companions
down.
• I will avenge my family.
• I will protect the natural world.
• I will achieve great wealth.
• I will spread the word of my deity.
• I will help others in need.
• I will spread the rule of the
rightful government.
4
Variant Rules
185
185
introduction
Gamemastery
Basics
Tools
Subsystems
Variant Rules
NPC Gallery
GLOSSARY
and INDEX
