Critical Success The creature is unaffected.
Success The creature takes a –2 status penalty to Perception
checks to Seek or otherwise detect you.
Failure You filter all of the creature’s senses, making it
difficult for it to notice you. When you are hidden or
undetected from the creature, it doesn’t observe you
as soon as you do anything other than Hide, Sneak, or
Step. If it rolls a Perception check to Seek or otherwise
detect you, it gets the outcome one degree of success
worse than what it rolled, and if you roll a Stealth
check to Hide, Sneak, or otherwise escape its
attention, you get the outcome one degree of
success better than what you rolled against the
creature. If you use a hostile action toward the
creature, the effect ends for that creature
after your hostile action is completed.
Critical Failure As failure, but the effect
doesn’t end for that creature if you use
a hostile action against it.
PSYCHIC SCREAM MAJOR GIFT
DIVINATION
MENTAL
Aspect mind
Activate [two-actions] envision; Effect Your thoughts build before
spilling forth in a powerful telepathic scream. Enemies
within a 20-foot-radius burst centered on you must
attempt a basic Will save or take 1d10 mental damage for
every 2 levels of the relic. On a critical failure, they are also
stupefied 1 for 1 minute.
MENTAL BASTION
GRAND GIFT
MENTAL
Aspect mind
Your relic takes over some of your mental
processes and enhances others. You gain
telepathy; if you already have telepathy,
you instead increase its range by 30
feet. Whenever you would become
stupefied, reduce the value by 1.
You are permanently quickened
and can use the additional action to
Recall Knowledge.
PLANT GIFTS
APOTHECARY’S GARDEN
MINOR GIFT
HEALING
NECROMANCY
PLANT
Aspect plant
Your relic grows potent natural medicines. Each night,
two medicinal herbs (or other plants) grow from your relic
and can be harmlessly harvested during your next daily
preparations. A living creature that consumes an herb with
an Interact action regains 1d8 Hit Points for every 2 relic
levels (minimum 1d8). At 9th level, the relic grows three
herbs each night, and at 17th level, the relic grows four herbs
each night. Herbs wither away 1 day after being harvested.
POLLEN SPRAY
MINOR GIFT
EVOCATION
PLANT
Aspect plant
Activate [two-actions] command, Interact; Effect Pollen and poison
spores spray from your relic, dealing 1d6 poison damage
for every 2 relic levels (minimum 1d6) to all creatures in
a 15-foot cone (basic Fortitude save). On a critical failure,
targets are also dazzled for 1 round. You can’t use
Pollen Spray again for 1d4 rounds.
SPROUT ALLY
MINOR GIFT
PLANT
Aspect plant
Activate
[two-actions]
command,
Interact;
Frequency once per day; Effect Your
relic rapidly matures and animates
nearby plant matter into an ally to fight by
you, casting summon plant or fungus, with a level of half
the item’s level rounded up. You can Sustain this Activation
as you would the spell.
GRAPPLING VINE
MAJOR GIFT
PLANT
TRANSMUTATION
Aspect plant
Activate [one-action] Interact; Effect Your relic launches a sticky,
multi-stranded vine at a target within 50 feet. Make an
attack roll as you would when using a grappling hook,
but if you roll a critical failure on the check to secure the
vine, you get a failure instead. Once the vine is anchored,
creatures receive a +1 status bonus to Athletics checks to
Climb the vine, and they gain a +5-foot status bonus to the
distance they move with a successful check while
Climbing using the vine.
The vine lasts for 1 day or until you use
Grappling Vine again, at which point your
older vine withers.
PETAL DANCE
MAJOR GIFT
PLANT
TRANSMUTATION
Aspect plant
Activate
[two-actions]
envision;
Frequency once per hour; Effect
You discorporate into a cloud of
petals and leaves. This grants you the
swarm trait, immunity to falling damage, resistance 5
to bludgeoning and slashing damage, and weakness
5 to area and splash damage. You can fit into spaces
only a few inches wide, moving your constituent petals
through the gap. You don’t gain the swarm mind ability,
so you are still affected normally by mental effects. As
a swarm, you can’t speak, cast spells, use manipulate
actions requiring your hands, activate your magic items,
or make any of your Strikes with your normal body. You
remain in this form for 1 minute or until you Dismiss the
activation. At 13th level, the relic gains a reaction that
triggers when you fall or take damage, applying this gift’s
2
Tools
103
103
introduction
Gamemastery
Basics
Tools
Subsystems
Variant Rules
NPC Gallery
GLOSSARY
and INDEX
