keep going—which they often are—you might have them
find something useful but minor in the search.
MORE ON FOLLOW THE EXPERT
Follow the Expert is a truly versatile activity that lets a PC
who’s lacking at a skill or exploration activity have a better
chance to succeed. It’s important that this doesn’t become
too rote. Let the players decide how one of them is helping
out the other. The description can give you more to work
with and add fun color to the exploration beyond just the
mechanics. Also, if one PC helps another in the same way
over and over, that could be a sign of the character being
helped growing in a particular way. If the rogue has been
helping the fighter Avoid Notice over and over, the fighter
is essentially receiving training in Stealth at that point and
might want to consider taking or retraining a skill increase
to make that true. Connections like these can breathe life
into the characters and their relationships, and it can help
promote camaraderie and interactions between characters.
IMPROVISING NEW ACTIVITIES
The list of exploration activities isn’t exhaustive. More
appear in special subsystems and adventures, and you’ll
often need to create your own. When making your own,
it’s usually fine to just consider whether the amount of
effort the PC has to put in is comparable to the other
exploration activities and go from there. If you’re having
trouble, try finding a comparable activity. For example,
if the PC are Swimming as they explore, consider that
travel speeds are based on the equivalent of 1 action per
6 seconds, and that other exploration activities the PCs
can keep up without getting tired are generally based on
alternating between 2 actions per 12 seconds, averaging to
1 action per 6 seconds. (Defend, for example, is based on
using 1 action to Stride then 1 to Raise your Shield, which
is why the PC moves at half Speed.) Hustle is a good
example of an activity that can’t be done indefinitely, so
you can use it as a model for strenuous activities where the
PCs are using the equivalent of 2 actions every 6 seconds.
When improvising an exploration activity, have in mind
some advantages and disadvantages of that activity to
inspire you. What else might the PC be neglecting while
doing this activity? How does it interplay with activities
the rest of the party uses? If the new activity seems like
it’s a better option than other activities all or nearly all
the time, chances are you might want to adjust it so it’s
more balanced. Eventually, you’ll start to find which
exploration activities your group enjoys the most.
SCENES WITHIN
EXPLORATION
It can help you to think of exploration as a series of scenes,
with encounters not just breaking up exploration, but
functioning as subsections within it. Many of these are
1
Gamemastery Basics
1919
introduction
Gamemastery
Basics
Tools
Subsystems
Variant Rules
NPC Gallery
GLOSSARY
and INDEX
