COMBINING VARIANTS
If your group is playing a game
with themes that call for it, you
might wind up combining multiple
variant rules together, possibly
applying several options at the
same time. For instance, in a gritty,
low-magic, survival-horror game,
you might start the PCs as 0-level
characters, remove alignment to
allow more shades of gray, alter
the proficiency bonus progression
to remove level, and remove
magic items—all at the same time.
In general, the variant options
in this chapter are sufficiently
self-contained, with explanations
of how they change the game, that
you should be able to combine
them without trouble. When you
design your own variant rules, be
on the lookout for places where
new rules might have unexpected
overlapping effects on each other
and the game.
Most of the variant rules in this chapter involve characters, how they progress, and
how those pieces fit together. The variants included in this chapter are divided into
the following sections.
• Ability Score Variants (page 182) includes an alternate ability score system
that works entirely through Ability Points, plus ways to distribute what each
ability score impacts more evenly.
• Alignment Variants (page 184) contains options for removing alignment and
an incremental alignment system.
• Deep Backgrounds (page 186) replace simply selecting a background with a
series of steps that flesh out more of the character’s backstory.
• Feats and Features (page 192) shows how to build characters who gain feats
and class features in different ways, from dual-classed characters with all the
options of two classes to characters with a free archetype or more ancestry feats.
• Level 0 Characters (page 195) can play through the characters’ adventures
before they take on character classes.
• Magic Item Variants (page 196) contains rules deconstructing the magic item
bonuses, allowing you to progress them automatically or via craftsmanship to
more easily run a lower-magic game.
• Proficiency without Level (page 198) changes the fundamental math of the
proficiency system to tell stories where being outnumbered by weaker foes
remains a challenge and high-level characters are less superhuman.
• Skill Points (page 199) offers a more granular system for characters to choose
and hone their skills.
• Stamina (page 200) grants characters a pool of Stamina Points that they lose
before Hit Points and can recover with by resting to catch their breath.
CHOOSING VARIANT RULES
When you and your group are deciding which variant rules to use, think about the
types of stories you want to tell together, including the genre, themes, and characters,
and use that information to choose which variant rules might be the best fit. If
different players think different variant options would work best for the game, let
each of them make their point, but ultimately you as the GM make the final call.
You might discover that your game requires variant rules beyond those listed
here—and that’s okay! In fact, it’s to be expected. Use these options as a starting
point for some of the most commonly helpful tools, but you and your group should
work together to build your own variant rules whenever you want a different
experience. Don’t be afraid to deviate from the baseline—you and your group
know what you like and what you’re looking for better than a baseline rules set
ever could. More about creating your own house rules can be found on page 29.
If you’re not sure about a variant rule, take a chance! Make sure everyone in
your group understands that this is a trial run and that you might need to adjust
or remove the variant rules later on if they’re causing unexpected side effects or
not working as you intended. When you’re playing with variant rules, be sure to
let any new players who join the group know about the variant rules your group
has chosen. This helps them set their expectations and ensures they don’t feel
ambushed by any variant rules the first time they’re encountered in the game, which
is important for making sure there is a feeling of fairness among your players.
CHAPTER 4: VARIANT RULES
While the rules presented in the Core Rulebook are designed to give you and your group a
baseline experience that’s easy to learn and fun to play, sometimes you’re looking for more
customizable options. That’s where variant rules come in: options to alter the game’s rules
to fit your needs. This chapter adds a collection of variant rules to your toolbox, often
with additional options for how to use them.
4
Variant Rules
181
181
introduction
Gamemastery
Basics
Tools
Subsystems
Variant Rules
NPC Gallery
GLOSSARY
and INDEX
