5 Awareness Points: Suspicions are raised. Increase the
DCs for obstacles by 1. The first time the PCs reach this
tier, a complication occurs.
10 Awareness Points: The first time the PCs reach this
tier, a complication occurs.
15 Awareness Points: Increase the DCs for obstacles by
a total of 2, and the first time the PCs reach this tier, a
complication occurs.
20 Awareness Points: The infiltration fails.
COMPLICATIONS
Sometimes when a plan goes sour and seems like it can’t
get worse, it does. Complications are unexpected problems
that compound the difficulty of a challenge. The party
might trigger a complication by critically failing a check
to overcome a challenge, by reaching a certain threshold of
Awareness Points, if you need to spice up the infiltration,
or through their own decisions—maybe the wizard’s castle
has various wards, each triggered when a PC attempts to
use a different kind of magic.
Many complications increase Awareness Points or
otherwise make infiltration more difficult. A common form
of complication is attracting the attention of guards who try
to stop, capture, or even kill the PCs. When this happens, the
infiltration may briefly shift into encounter mode as the PCs
attempt to defeat their assailants—hopefully taking care not
to arouse more suspicions. The sounds of battle are loud,
so unless combat occurs in an isolated area or the PCs take
precautions, each round of unmitigated combat noise causes
them to gain Awareness Points, at the very least.
When you create a complication, decide on the details
of how it will play out. Each complication has a trigger
that determines when it occurs. It might affect only a
single character, or it might affect everyone in a certain
area, and you’ll need to determine whether multiple PCs
can work together to overcome it or whether only one can.
Complications must be overcome before the characters
involved can overcome other obstacles, and attempting
to overcome a complication takes a character’s turn just
like trying to overcome an obstacle. Many complications
are one-off events and are overcome automatically, even
on a failure, though not without a cost. If a complication
requires PCs to gain Infiltration Points to clear it, it has an
Infiltration Points entry, just like an obstacle.
Don’t overwhelm the characters with complications.
Typically, you’ll want to aim for two complications per AP
threshold. Otherwise, the PCs may end up spending more
time on the complications than on the heist itself, and the
chance of failure may be too high.
The following example is a common complication that
could occur in almost any infiltration.
DO I KNOW YOU?
COMPLICATION
Trigger The PCs reach 5 Awareness Points for the first time.
Overcome standard, hard, or very hard Deception, Diplomacy,
Performance, or Stealth
Someone thinks they recognize you, and you must either
convince them otherwise before slipping away or find a way
to dodge the person entirely.
Success You convince or otherwise dodge the person.
Failure You are recognized, and the party accrues 1 AP.
Critical Failure As failure, but the party accrues 2 AP.
OPPORTUNITIES
Not everything that happens during an infiltration is a
challenge that must be solved—sometimes PCs can use
their turns to aid the group in some way. Opportunities are
very similar to obstacles, but they don’t provide Infiltration
Points or count toward the objective. They instead provide
some kind of benefit, such as a magical password to
disable security features further along, reducing the party’s
Awareness Points, or lowering the DC for a later challenge.
But opportunities sometimes come with risks—failing can
increase the PCs’ Awareness Points or trigger complications.
You’ll need to decide what opportunities are available and
when, and whether they can be completed multiple times
or only once. For example, the PCs can steal the guard’s
keys only once, but can cause a distraction several times.
Some opportunities might be available at almost any
time in any infiltration, like this example.
SMOOTH THE PATH
OPPORTUNITY
Requirements The PC has successfully completed an individual
objective and some other PCs have not.
Having completed your objective, you help an ally who is
still trying to reach that goal. Describe how you are helping.
This gives the ally the benefits of Following the Expert (Core
Rulebook 479). In unusual cases, the GM might allow you to
attempt a relevant skill check to overcome the obstacle on
behalf of the other PC instead.
PC PREPARATIONS
Sometimes the party has a chance to prepare before
conducting their infiltration, by scouting a location,
bribing officials, and so on. This takes the form of special
downtime activities that can give the PCs Edge Points
(EP): resources and advantages they can bring to bear
during their infiltration, such as stolen uniforms, forged
documents, and the like. As with infiltration opportunities,
careless work runs the risk of increasing Awareness
Points—but in this case, before the infiltration even begins!
Typically, you’ll limit the preparation phase in some way,
such as by setting a number of days the PCs have to prepare
and by constraining how many preparation activities
are available to make sure the PCs aren’t entering the
infiltration with so many Edge Points that the infiltration
is no longer suspenseful. The more opportunities for Edge
Points you give, the lower you should set the Awareness
Point thresholds for complications and failure. Also decide
how many times the characters can benefit from each
preparation activity—most activities should grant their
benefits only once.
Gamemastery Guide
162
162
