RUNNING HEXPLORATION
Once you have your hexploration map ready, it’s time
for the PCs to start exploring! Each day, the PCs decide
how they plan on exploring, either learning more about
their current hex or traversing a new hex. They do this by
declaring one or more hexploration activities for the day.
These activities take two forms: group or individual. The
number of hexploration activities a group can accomplish
each day is based on the Speed of their slowest member. If
a group is willing to split up, faster members can perform
more hexploration activities based on their own Speed, but
such a decision may be deadly given the threat of random
encounters. A group moving at a Speed of 10 feet or less is
so slow it can’t even traverse an open hex in a single day;
it takes such a group 2 days for each hexploration activity.
TABLE 3–6: HEXPLORATION ACTIVITIES PER DAY
Speed
Activities per Day
10 feet or less
1/2
15–25 feet
1
30–40 feet
2
45–55 feet
3
60 feet or more
4
This rate assumes the PCs are taking time to camp and
rest at healthy intervals. When a new day of hexploration
begins, the group can decide to take a forced march as long
as no one in the group is fatigued. Doing so allows them
to gain an extra Travel activity (or perform a full Travel
activity each day if their Speed is 10 feet or less), but this
is the only activity they can perform that day. A character
can participate in a forced march safely for a number
of days equal to the character’s Constitution modifier
(minimum 1 day). Any additional days of forced march
make the character fatigued until they spend an entire day
of downtime resting.
GROUP ACTIVITIES
Group activities require the entire party to work together
in order to be effective; these activities each count as one of
the day’s hexploration activities for the whole group. For
instance, if the group had 2 hexploration activities per day
and decided to Travel and Reconnoiter, no one would have
any additional hexploration activities that day. There are
two group activities: Travel and Reconnoiter.
TRAVEL
MOVE
You progress toward moving into an adjacent hex. In open
terrain, like a plain, using 1 Travel activity allows you to
move from one hex to an adjacent hex. Traversing a hex with
difficult terrain (such as a typical forest or desert) requires 2
Travel activities, and hexes of greater difficult terrain (such as
a steep mountain or typical swamp) require 3 Travel activities
to traverse. Traveling along a road uses a terrain type one
step better than the surrounding terrain. For example, if you
TYPES OF TERRAIN
The following are examples of the types of terrain you can
use when creating your hexploration map. Each section
provides the difficulty of traversing that terrain (either
open, difficult, or greater difficult terrain) and the potential
resources and secrets found there.
AQUATIC
Terrain typically requires a boat or a swim speed; depends
on the strengths of currents and the weather
Resources seafood, coral, pearls, shipwrecks
Secrets remote islands filled with monsters, isolated
communities, pirates, flooded or underwater cities of
aquatic creatures
ARCTIC
Terrain typically difficult or greater difficult terrain
Resources scarce food (broken ice floes that allow for
fishing, breeding grounds for seals or whales)
Secret thawed passes that allow ship travel, hidden caverns,
isolated communities of arctic dwellers
DESERT
Terrain typically difficult or greater difficult terrain
Resources water sources (underground springs, oases, and
streams), mineral wealth
Secrets forgotten civilizations beneath the dunes
FOREST
Terrain typically difficult terrain, or greater difficult terrain
for a dense jungle
Resources diverse flora and fauna, natural remedies,
plentiful game
Secrets bandit encampment, druid’s henge, fey-touched
glade or mushroom circle
MOUNTAIN
Terrain typically greater difficult terrain, or difficult terrain
for hills
Resources minerals (including gold, silver, and gemstones)
Secrets hidden pass, watchtower or waypoint constructed
by a nearby empire, dragon’s lair, bandit hideout
PLAIN
Terrain open terrain
Resources useful plants (flax or cotton)
Secrets artifacts abandoned after a historic battle, valuables
buried by outlaws for later retrieval
SWAMP
Terrain typically greater difficult terrain
Resources materials useful for medicine or poison
Secrets river raider camps, remains and gear of unlucky
travelers, sites of mystic significance
Gamemastery Guide
172
172
