Focus Points granted by all of them. These share one focus
pool as normal, with the standard cap of 3 maximum
Focus Points.
chArActer AdvAncement
A dual-class character gains the class feats and class
features for both classes at each level as they advance,
with the exception of ability boosts, general feats, skill
feats, and skill increases—the character gets each of these
benefits only once per level, since both classes would
provide the same benefit. (A dual-class rogue/ranger still
gets the extra skill feat and skill increase at levels where
the other class doesn’t provide them.)
If a character gains the same proficiency rank
in a statistic more than once, they still use only the
highest rank. In the example above, when the cleric
gets Alertness at 5th level, they wouldn’t change their
Perception rank, since it was already expert due to the
ranger’s initial proficiencies.
PLAYING WITH DUAL-CLASS CHARACTERS
Playing a dual-class character certainly gives a character
more options, and adding additional spellcasting classes
can result in a significantly wider variety of powerful
spell effects available to each character. Nonetheless,
this sort of dual-classing is more likely to increase the
party’s longevity than it is to drastically adjust the level
of opponents a dual-class character should be fighting.
The increases to saving throw proficiencies and Hit
Points make characters somewhat sturdier and able
to take on slightly higher challenges, but not every
fight should be harder, nor should encounters exceed
extreme-threat difficulty.
Dual-classing in two similar martial classes to double
up on their advantages can result in characters who,
instead of increasing their flexibility, become drastically
more powerful in one focus. For instance, a fighter/ranger
with the flurry hunter’s edge gains access to incredibly
accurate press actions, and a barbarian/fighter has the
barbarian’s high damage plus the fighter’s high accuracy.
One way around this is to simply disallow combinations
that double down on a narrow ability, and instead
encourage dual-class characters that open up narrative
options and increase the character’s flexibility. The other
solution is to raise the challenge from the opposition,
treating the party as if the characters were a level higher.
However, this is a choice that affects the whole group,
even if only one character is built to mow down foes.
Due to the increased number of class feats a dual-class
character has, you should limit how much of a benefit a
character gets from feats that scale based on the number
of feats you have, such as Resiliency feats from multiclass
archetypes. Typically, the limit should be half the number
of total class feats the character has.
4
Variant Rules
193
193
introduction
Gamemastery
Basics
Tools
Subsystems
Variant Rules
NPC Gallery
GLOSSARY
and INDEX
