RESOLVING PROBLEMS
Being a Game Master and running a game can be a tremendously rewarding and fulfilling
experience: you get to sit down with friends old and new, roll some dice, tell stories, and have
fun. That said, being a GM and running a game can present unique challenges. Sometimes
problems present themselves at the table, and it’s up to the GM to resolve them.
When dealing with problems at the table, keep in mind
the primary reason to play Pathfinder is to have fun. And
that’s true for everyone—player or GM. Don’t “solve” a
problem by reducing everyone’s enjoyment of the game
or their ability to forge a path for their characters. Of
course, sometimes your solution might not make everyone
deliriously happy. Play style is a highly personal, individual
thing, rarely does a group agree on all things all the time.
Solving problems can be as collaborative as the rest of the
game. Only a foolish GM ignores the players’ opinions—
but that said, the final decision in resolving a problem rests
with you.
Issues at the table arise occasionally. Broadly, such
problems can be separated into four main categories:
distractions, total party kills, problematic players, and
power imbalances. The first of these is covered in detail
on page 491 of the Core Rulebook, and guidance for the
others appears here.
TOTAL PARTY KILLS
Perhaps the most feared of any outcome of a
gaming session, a total party kill (TPK) can spell
the end of an adventure or campaign. In a TPK,
every member of the party dies. Think in advance
about how comfortable you are with TPKs and discuss
them with the other players. This can provide
valuable insights into not only how you
should handle one but also the implied
level of lethality the players expect.
TPKs are rarely unavoidable. Usually
it becomes evident at some point during the session,
whether to everyone or only to you, that disaster looms.
What the players do with this insight is up to them, but
you have more control and can take steps to avoid the
TPK. For example, perhaps the PCs’ foe gets distracted
by something, an ally arrives to help the heroes, or the
villain captures them instead of slaying them outright. The
simplest path is to just allow a clear escape route the PCs
can take—perhaps with a few characters still falling along
the way. It’s not entirely your responsibility to defuse the
TPK, but offering such opportunities gives players more
say in their characters’ fates.
Should a TPK occur anyway, the kind of game you’re
running should influence your approach to the situation.
For example, in a campaign centered around dungeon
crawling, a TPK is less of a problem—the players simply
form a new adventuring party and take up where the dead
ones left off. If you are running a story-intensive game
in which each PC has a personal stake in defeating the
villain, saving the town, or the like, a TPK could demolish
multiple plot threads. Here, you might use the story you
have in place, having the NPCs take up arms to find or
avenge the slain group—or raise them from the dead.
Note that the game should continue only if the players
want it to. The premature end of an adventure or campaign
Gamemastery Guide
30
30
