Activate [two-actions] command; Effect Drawing upon divine fury, you
single out a target that damaged you or an ally within the
past round and fill your relic with divine vengeance against
them. Make a Strike against that foe, dealing an additional
damage die on a hit. If the target is evil, it is also enfeebled
1 until the start of your next turn on a hit (or enfeebled 2
on a critical hit).
HEAVEN’S GRACE
MINOR GIFT
ABJURATION
Aspect celestial; Prerequisites The relic
is a worn item.
The heavens protect you from harm.
While wearing the relic, you gain a +1
status bonus to AC against attacks by
fiends and resistance to an energy type
corresponding to the relic’s celestial
origin (such as sonic resistance from a
choral angel). The resistance is equal to
half the relic’s level (minimum 1).
WORD OF FAITH MINOR GIFT
HEALING
NECROMANCY
POSITIVE
Aspect celestial
Activate [two-actions] command, Interact;
Frequency once per hour; Effect Placing your hand on
yourself or an ally, you heal their wounds and bolster their
spirit. The target regains 1d8 HP per item level and reduces
their frightened value by 1.
HOLY LIGHT
MAJOR GIFT
EVOCATION
GOOD
Aspect celestial
Activate [two-actions] command, Interact; Effect Your relic shines with
holy light. This creates bright light in a 30-foot emanation
around the item. Evil creatures in the
area are frightened 1, and can’t lower
their frightened value below 1 as
long as they remain in the light.
Fiends in the area increase any
weakness to good damage they
have by 5. You can Sustain this
Activation for up to 1 minute.
RIGHTEOUS CALL
MAJOR GIFT
EVOCATION
GOOD
Aspect celestial
Activate [two-actions] command, Interact; Frequency once per day;
Effect Holy magic fills your armaments, making them true
weapons against evil. For 1 minute, your weapons and
unarmed attacks gain the holy weapon rune while you hold
them. If a weapon is at its limit on property runes, you can
choose one property rune on the weapon to go dormant
while the holy rune takes effect. In addition, any successful
Strikes your allies make while they’re within 30 feet of you
deal 1 additional good damage.
ANGELIC VESSEL
GRAND GIFT
CONJURATION
GOOD
Aspect celestial
Activate [two-actions] command, Interact; Frequency once per
day; Effect At your invitation, a celestial imbues your
body with the divine. You gain 50 additional Hit Points,
increasing both your maximum and current Hit Points,
as well as weakness 10 to
evil damage. If the relic has
the righteous call gift, this
activation grants the effects
of that gift as well, without
expending its daily use.
You can Dismiss the effect.
If you do, you can unleash a
wave of holy power, causing the relic
to cast an 8th-level divine
decree, choosing good for
the alignment.
DEATH GIFTS
DEATH GAZE
MINOR GIFT
NECROMANCY
NEGATIVE
Aspect death
Activate [two-actions] envision, Interact; Effect Your stare causes a
creature’s flesh to rot and wither away. Target a creature
you can see within 30 feet. Your stare deals 1d6 negative
damage to the creature for every 2 levels the relic has
(minimum 1d6; basic Fortitude save). An undead creature
or other creature with negative healing targeted this
way is instead healed 1d6 HP per level of the relic and is
temporarily immune to this effect for 10 minutes.
LIVING DEATH
MINOR GIFT
NECROMANCY
Aspect death
You stand on the threshold between
the living and the dead. If you attempt
a saving throw against an effect that
would deal negative damage to you,
such as harm, your outcome is one
degree of success better than what you
rolled. If you roll a critical success and
the effect is capable of healing undead,
you regain HP equal to half the spell’s full
damage. Any positive spell or effect that would
heal you has only half the normal effect. All these effects
apply only if you are a living creature.
SHROUD OF THE AFTERLIFE
MINOR GIFT
NECROMANCY
NEGATIVE
Aspect death
Activate [one-action] command, Interact; Frequency once per day;
Effect You shroud yourself with powers from beyond the
living realm for 1 minute. While this shroud is active, you
Gamemastery Guide
98
98
