ABILITY SCORE VARIANTS
The default method of generating ability scores in the Core Rulebook can help you learn
your character’s story along the way, while the alternative method, rolling scores, is a nod to
tradition. But other ways to generate ability scores might better suit the story you want to tell.
GRADUAL ABILITY BOOSTS
In this variant, a character gains ability boosts more
gradually as they level up, rather than receiving four ability
boosts at 5th, 10th, 15th, and 20th levels. Each character
gains one ability boost when they reach each of 2nd, 3rd,
4th, and 5th levels. These are collectively a single set of
ability boosts, so a character can’t boost the same ability
score more than once per set; players can put a dot next
to each boosted ability score or otherwise mark it to keep
track. PCs also receive an ability boost at 7th, 8th, 9th, and
10th level (a second set); at 12th, 13th, 14th, and 15th level
(a third set); and at 17th, 18th, 19th, and 20th level (the
fourth and final set).
This spreads out the ability boosts, and using them
earlier means a character can increase their most
important ability modifiers at a lower level. This makes
characters slightly more powerful on average, but it makes
levels 5, 10, 15, and 20 less important since characters
usually choose the least important ability boost of the set
at those levels.
POINT BUY
This alternative ability score generation method replaces
ability boosts and flaws with a number of Ability Points.
Players determine their ability scores by investing Ability
Points into each score, as seen in Table 4–1: Cost for an
Ability Score. These give players more customization
in their ability scores and can allow a player to really
prioritize their favorite ones, but the system is significantly
more complicated to use.
STEP 1: DECREASE STARTING SCORES
All of a character’s ability scores start at 10. If the PC’s
ancestry has ability flaws, decrease those ability scores to
8. A player can also voluntarily lower any ability score
to below 10 to gain more Ability Points to use in Step 2.
They gain 1 Ability Point for lowering an ability score to
9, or 2 Ability Points for lowering a score to 8.
STEP 2: SPEND POINTS
Now that each player has set their minimum scores,
they’ll spend Ability Points to increase their ability scores.
Ability Points come in two categories: dedicated and
flexible. Dedicated Ability Points can be spent only on
specified ability scores, but flexible Ability Points can be
used to increase any scores. These Ability Points replace
all the ability boosts a character would normally get.
The total number of Ability Points spent determines the
character’s starting ability score, as shown on Table 4–1:
Cost for an Ability Score. The maximum score a player
can buy at character creation is 18. Raising a score costs 2
points more than the listed value if the score started at an 8
after Step 1, or 1 point more if the score started at a 9. Any
Ability Points not spent during character creation are lost.
 • Dedicated Ability Points: A character gets 2 dedicated
Ability Points for each ability score their ancestry
gives predetermined ability boosts to. Human
characters, or those with another ancestry that grants
two free ability boosts, get 2 more flexible Ability
Points instead. Each character also gets 2 dedicated
Ability Points for one of their background’s choices of
predetermined ability scores, and 2 dedicated Ability
Points for their class’s key ability score.
 • Flexible Ability Points: Each character gets 15
flexible Ability Points, plus any gained for voluntarily
lowering ability scores below 10 in Step 1.
TABLE 4–1: COST FOR AN ABILITY SCORE

Total Ability Points Spent
Ability Score

–2
8

–1
9

0
10

1
11

2
12

3
13

5
14

7
15

10
16

13
17

17
18
INCREASING SCORES AT HIGHER LEVELS
When a character levels up, they gain Ability Points at each
level, as shown on Table 4–2: Ability Points Gained. Unlike
the Ability Points from character creation, a player can
save these to buy a more expensive increase, and they can
increase ability scores to a maximum of 22. When a player
is ready to increase one or more ability scores, they spend
the number of Ability Points listed on Table 4–3: Raising
an Ability Score and increase the ability score accordingly.
A player can increase a score more than once at a given
time, but they must pay for each increase individually, such
as going from 14 to 16 by spending 2 points to increase
from 14 to 15, and then 3 points to increase from 15 to 16.
For most games, it’s best to increase scores when leveling
up, between game sessions, or during downtime.
Apex items work as described in the Core Rulebook.
They can increase an ability score to a maximum of 24.
Gamemastery Guide
182
182
