Influence is a short-term subsystem wherein the PCs
accumulate Influence Points during a social encounter
with an NPC to represent their increasing influence.
These encounters are a race against the clock to reach
Influence Point thresholds in order to sway the NPC. It’s
perfect for a single social gathering—whether it’s a party,
a treaty negotiation, or even an attempt to persuade
various members of a panel of judges. Because of the
variety of Influence skill options and the ability to use
Perception to uncover more information, every character
has something important to contribute in the influence
subsystem, as opposed to situations where only one
character has Diplomacy.
The influence subsystem divides a social encounter
into rounds, with the number of rounds representing
the length of the social event. Rounds last any amount
of time that you determine, depending on the needs of
the narrative, though somewhere between 15 minutes
and an hour is typical. During each round, each PC can
act once to either Influence or Discover.
INFLUENCE
CONCENTRATION LINGUISTIC
You attempt to make a favorable impression on an NPC to
convince the NPC to support your cause. Choose an NPC,
and attempt a skill check to impress that NPC. The DC,
and whether success is possible, depend on the NPC’s
preferences (typically found in the NPC’s influence
stat block).
Critical Success You gain 2 Influence Points with
the chosen NPC.
Success You gain 1 Influence Point with the chosen
NPC.
Failure You gain no Influence Points with the chosen NPC.
Critical Failure You lose 1 Influence Point with the chosen
NPC.
DISCOVER
CONCENTRATION
SECRET
You watch or study an NPC to learn more about that NPC’s
preferences. Choose an NPC and attempt a Perception
check or an appropriate skill check determined by the GM.
The DC is typically found in the NPC’s influence stat block.
Critical Success Choose two of the options detailed in Success
below; you can choose the same option twice to learn
two pieces of information from the same category.
Success Choose one of the following: You learn which
skill that can Influence the NPC has the lowest DC
(skipping any skills that you already know), one of the
INFLUENCE
When the PCs need to gain favor with or sway over an NPC to achieve their goals,
sometimes a Deception, Diplomacy, or Intimidation check isn’t enough to get the job
done. In these cases, you can implement the influence subsystem in a social encounter.
NPC’s personal biases, one of the NPC’s resistances, or
one of the NPC’s weaknesses.
Failure You learn no information.
Critical Failure Choose a piece of information to learn about, as
success, but the information is incorrect. For instance, you
3
Subsystems
151
151
introduction
Gamemastery
Basics
Tools
Subsystems
Variant Rules
NPC Gallery
GLOSSARY
and INDEX
