God: Taking a position atop the divine pyramid, gods
command near unlimited power and resources. Their
mortal congregations are large and (usually) well funded.
Demigod: Demigods still possess a great deal of power,
though often in subservience to another god or simply
inferior to the power of a full god.
Quasi Deity: The weakest rank of divinity, many quasi
deities are recently ascended mortals who attained their
deific powers through ritual apotheosis, or planar natives
who have amassed divine power of their own.
divine StatiStiCS
In Pathfinder, deities are not only a narrative element of the
world, but also a mechanical component of some classes.
Alignment: A deity’s alignment reflects their innate
moral and ethical outlook. In the Lost Omens setting,
most deities maintain realms tied to the Outer Plane that
matches their alignment.
Areas of Concern: Each deity has one or more areas
of concern they have divine influence over. These
portfolios typically embrace universal concepts, such as
honor, night, or tranquility. Deities with similar areas
of concern may work in common cause or against each
other, depending on their goals and divine rank.
Edicts: Every deity has edicts, which are those tenets
they require their faithful—especially divinely empowered
clergy like champions and clerics—to promote in the
world. A deity usually has one to three simple and
straightforward edicts.
Anathema: The opposite of edicts, anathema are those
things a deity will not abide. Champions and clerics must
avoid their deity’s anathema or risk losing their divine
powers, and even lay worshippers usually feel guilty for
performing such acts, as they will be weighed against them
in the afterlife. Like edicts, a deity usually has two to three
simple and straightforward elements to their anathema.
Follower Alignments: Champions and clerics can gain
power from deities only if they share a compatible moral
disposition. Usually these allowed alignments are chosen
from those within one step of the deity’s alignments, with
NG, LN, CN, or NE deities rarely allowing N champions
and clerics. Less restrictive deities are rarer and occur
most often when the deity has multiple aspects or a
particularly wide view of things.
devotee BenefitS
Deities grant favored status and special power to the
most fervent and influential of their flock.
Divine Font: Clerics channel a deity’s divine power
as a font of negative or positive energy. Most often,
good‑aligned deities grant heal while evil deities grant
harm, with neutral deities most often offering a choice
between the two. However, there’s nothing inherently
good about positive energy or evil about negative energy,
so a specific deity’s divine font may vary based on their
areas of concern.
Divine Skill: Champions and clerics automatically
gain the trained proficiency rank in their deity’s divine
skill. Assign the deity one skill that synergizes well with
their areas of concern. For example, Intimidation would
be appropriate for a god of tyranny, or Deception for a
goddess of trickery.
Favored Weapon: Clerics gain access to their deity’s
favored weapon as well as the trained proficiency rank
with it; warpriest clerics gain additional benefits. Every
deity has a favored weapon. Because the benefits of
having an advanced favored weapon are very strong,
you should assign simple or martial favored weapons
unless a deity is so thematically linked with an advanced
weapon that you need to give them one.
Domains: Each deity grants a number of domains
that reflect their divine areas of concern. Champions
and clerics can learn the domain spells from their deity’s
domains. Pathfinder’s deities each have four domains, and
many have one or more alternative domains. Though this
number is usually enough to convey a deity’s portfolio
and give players sufficient options, you can give your
deities as many domains as you like.
Cleric Spells: When preparing spells, clerics can choose
from specific spells granted by the deity, in addition to
those available on the divine spell list. A deity always
grants a 1st‑level spell and usually two others, all chosen
from non‑divine spell lists. The exact number of spells
a deity grants can vary—a magic‑focused deity might
grant one spell per level—though this shouldn’t exceed
one spell per level.
COSMOLOGY
An enduring curiosity among many cultures is to ask
what wonders lie beyond the night sky. Does anyone gaze
back from the moon above? What realms do the gods call
home, and what is it like to walk in their divine presence?
Is the mortal world at the center of the universe, or is all
life utterly insignificant? Spiritual ponderings like these
are central to belief systems across the globe. As a world
builder, you get to answer those enduring questions by
designing the multiverse in all its inexplicable grandeur.
The following are some aspects of your cosmology you
might consider, but as you decide these, you should also
consider how many of these details are known in your
world—and by whom.
THE UNIVERSE
The reality in which mortals live out their short existence
is known to sages and scholars by many names—the
universe, the Material Plane, or the mortal realm, among
others. The structure of the physical universe might follow
any of the following models, or it might be something
completely different.
Vast: The universe is an unimaginably sparse void of
infinite space, littered with stars, planets, and various bits
of detritus.
Gamemastery Guide
128
128
