RELICS
Some extraordinary magic items grow in power along with a character, gaining abilities
that add to an adventurer’s legend. These are called relics, and owning one can define a
character more than any other magic item could.
Relics begin as a simple item, called a relic seed, which is
little more than a functional item with a minor magical
effect associated with it. As the owner of the relic grows
in power, so does the relic. It develops gifts, which are
new magical abilities and activations. These abilities
might be themed to the relic, the character, or the nature
of the campaign. If a relic is passed to another character,
this process begins anew, sometimes granting the same
abilities again over time, but possibly unlocking entirely
new powers. If someone else takes the relic from its
owner, it usually works for a while, though it might lose
its power incrementally over time if not returned to its
owner. How the relic changes in such a circumstance is
up to you, and should fit the story.
The decision to add relics to the game is entirely up to
you as the GM. If you decide to add them, you’ll need to
adjust treasure somewhat. It’s also wise to consider how
many players you expect to end up with relics. Will they
each get one? Or will there be just one or two tied to the
theme of the campaign?
DISCOVERING A RELIC
Some relics might begin as ordinary items with a rich
history. They might be part of a character’s starting gear,
only to have their true powers uncovered later during play.
Other relics can be acquired during play as part of the
ongoing story. Regardless of their origin, these powerful
items might not appear to be much at first, but they contain
the potential to become something truly great.
For example, an old, tarnished amulet found around
the neck of a buried king might turn out to be an item of
deep historical significance that awakens to great power.
The seemingly ordinary family sword, passed down to
each new generation, might unlock hidden potential
through the deeds of its owner.
The PCs might immediately recognize a relic for its
ability, or they might carry it for a time before its true
nature becomes apparent. The story of a relic should be a
tale of discovery. At first, a relic’s wielder likely does not
fully understand the item’s power, or might be unable to
use it, learning of its abilities only after a momentous event
or fortuitous breakthrough. Ultimately, relics are powerful
tools in service of the story, working as a valuable tie to
the narrative, but their growth and development are in your
hands. Because of the place relics hold in the story, they
aren’t available for purchase, nor can they be crafted.
Pay attention to the characters’ backstories for potential
relics, and look for spots in your narrative that might be
suitable for campaign relics. If you’re planning to use
relics in your game, let the players know in advance,
since their ideas and plans can guide you and
give them greater investment in the relics.
BACKGROUND RELICS
A background relic is tied to the history of a character,
and its form and abilities should draw inspiration from
the story of their character’s life or the past of the item.
The relic could be a gift from a friend or mentor, an
heirloom from the character’s family, a found object
from their upbringing, or even the first item they ever
crafted. The player should select the form of the relic
(a battered longsword, a copper ring, or a threadbare
red cloak, for example).
CAMPAIGN RELICS
A campaign relic is drawn from the ongoing story of the
campaign. You decide the entirety of the item, from its
Gamemastery Guide
94
94
