Ranged  alchemical bomb +16 (range increment 20 feet, splash), Damage varies by bomb
Quick Bomber  The reckless scientist Interacts to draw a bomb, then Strikes with it.
Reckless Alchemy  (concentrate, manipulate) Requirements The reckless scientist is
holding a bomb or elixir; Effect The reckless scientist combines the bomb with another
bomb or the elixir with another elixir. They can Interact to draw a second bomb or elixir
if necessary as part of this action. They attempt a DC 28 Crafting check, destroying
both component items to create one new item. If a viable resulting item isn’t used by
the end of the scientist’s next turn, it explodes as described under critical failure.
Critical Success The new item has the full effect of both component items when used.
Success The new item combines both items, but halves the effect of each. (This halves
damage for bombs, the amount of healing of elixirs of life, or the duration for effects
that can’t have their value halved. Details are determined by the GM.)
Failure The new item is inert.
Critical Failure The new item immediately explodes, dealing 3d6 piercing damage to
the reckless scientist.
GANG LEADER
Cutthroats, killers, thieves, and toughs prey upon the vulnerable of society.
Directing their activities and keeping them in line are the duties of the gang leader.
GANG LEADER
CREATURE 7
CE
MEDIUM
HUMAN
HUMANOID
Perception +14
Languages Common
Skills Acrobatics +13, Athletics +13, Deception +15, Intimidation +17, Society +11, Stealth
+13, Thievery +15, Underworld Lore +15
Str +4, Dex +4, Con +2, Int +2, Wis –1, Cha +4
Items minor potion of healing, +1 shortsword, sling (10 bullets), studded leather,
tanglefoot bag
AC 26; Fort +13, Ref +17, Will +10
HP 104
Deny Advantage The gang leader isn’t flat‑footed to creatures of 7th level or lower
that are hidden, undetected, flanking, or using surprise attack.
Evasion When the gang leader rolls a success on a Reflex save, they get a
critical success instead.
Surprise Attack On the first round of combat, if the gang leader rolls
Deception or Stealth for initiative, creatures who haven’t acted are
flat‑footed to the gang leader.
Nimble Dodge  Trigger The gang leader is targeted with
an attack by an attacker they can see; Effect The gang
leader gains a +2 circumstance bonus to AC against the
triggering attack.
Speed 30 feet
Melee  shortsword +18 (agile, magical, versatile S),
Damage 1d6+10 piercing
Ranged  sling +18 (propulsive, range increment 50 feet, reload 1), Damage 1d6+8
bludgeoning
Brutal Rally  (auditory, emotion, linguistic, mental) Trigger The gang leader rolls a critical
hit against a creature; Effect All allies that can see the gang leader gain a +1 circumstance
bonus to attack rolls until the start of the gang leader’s next turn.
Gang Up Any enemy is flat‑footed against the gang leader’s melee attacks due to
flanking as long as the enemy is within melee reach of both the gang leader
and one of the gang leader’s allies.
Quick Draw  The gang leader Interacts to draw a weapon, then Strikes with
that weapon.
Sneak Attack The gang leader deals an extra 2d6 precision damage to flat‑footed creatures.
GANG STRUCTURE
A gang leader might run a gang,
but several other NPCs in this
chapter make for good gang
members. A gang of significant size
typically has a pyramid structure
so that only a few members report
directly to the boss and it’s harder
to link crimes directly to those in
charge if someone gets arrested.
5
NPC Gallery
249
249
introduction
Gamemastery
Basics
Tools
Subsystems
Variant Rules
NPC Gallery
GLOSSARY
and INDEX
GANG LEADER
