Critical Success The creature takes no damage.
Success The creature takes half damage and falls prone
in its space.
Failure The creature takes full damage, falls prone in its
space, and tumbles down to the bottom of the slope.
Critical Failure As failure, but double damage.
TITANIC FLYTRAP
HAZARD 4
ENVIRONMENTAL
Stealth DC 25 (trained)
Description On the surface, a titanic flytrap appears to be
a patch of the more common flytrap plant, but beneath
murky waters it hides a far larger set of jaws, reaching 10
feet across and reinforced with woody branches and lined
with paralytic hairs.
Disable DC 22 Survival (trained) to mislead the flytrap’s sense
of weight and pressure
AC 21; Fort +15, Ref +8
HP 56 (BT 28); Immunities mental; Resistances acid 20, fire 10
Snap Shut [reaction] Trigger A Small or Medium creature moves into
a square that is within reach of the flytrap’s hidden jaws;
Effect The flytrap’s jaws snap shut, making a jaws Strike
against the triggering creature.
Melee [one-action] jaws +17, Effect devour
Devour The target is trapped by the flytrap’s jaws, gaining the
grabbed condition until it Escapes (DC 21). Additionally, it
is exposed to the titanic flytrap toxin from the hundreds of
tiny hairs that line the inside of its leaves. If the flytrap’s
jaws Strike was a critical success, the target takes a –2
circumstance penalty to its saving throws against this
poison. At the end of each of target’s turns that it remains
grabbed, the target takes 3d6 acid damage.
Titanic Flytrap Toxin (contact, poison) Saving Throw DC 21
Fortitude; Maximum Duration 4 rounds; Stage 1 2d6 poison
damage and stunned 1 (1 round); Stage 2 3d6 poison damage
and stunned 2 (1 round); Stage 3 4d6 poison damage and
paralyzed (1 round)
Reset 1 hour (or longer, after a large meal)
SPECTRAL REFLECTION
HAZARD 5
HAUNT
Stealth DC 26 (expert)
Description The reflection in the mirror subtly twists and distorts,
its expression taking on an unnerving sneer of malice.
Disable DC 23 Religion (trained) to exorcise the spirit, or DC 23
Thievery (trained) to quickly cover the mirror
AC 19; Fort +15, Ref +10
Hardness 13, HP 50 (BT 25); Immunities critical hits, object
immunities, precision damage
Spectral Impale [reaction] Trigger A living creature approaches
within 15 feet of the mirror, and the mirror is lit with dim
or brighter light; Effect Shadowy barbs impale the body
of the reflected creature as the haunt makes a shadow
barbs Strike.
Melee [one-action] shadow barbs +19, Damage 4d8+9 negative plus
sap vitality
Sap Vitality A creature hit by the reflection’s shadow barbs
must attempt a DC 22 Fortitude save as the haunt tries
to draw a portion of its vital essence into the mirror. The
target is drained 1 on a failed saving throw, or drained 2 on
a critical failure.
Reset The haunt re-forms after 1 minute, manifesting in any
mirror within its infused area (see Special below).
Special Spectral reflections often infuse entire buildings,
manifesting in any sufficiently large mirror. The example
Hit Points and Hardness given represent a typical mirror
reinforced by the haunt; at your discretion, the haunt might
appear in reflective surfaces that are harder to destroy.
Defeating a manifestation through damage destroys the
surface, preventing the haunt from using it again. If this
haunt appears in an area with many mirrors, consider giving
PCs double or even triple the XP for a typical simple hazard.
GHOSTLY CHOIR
HAZARD 6
HAUNT
Stealth DC 20 (expert)
Description A choir of lost souls rises out of the floor, singing
an eerie chant that terrifies its listeners and buffets their
bodies with walls of sound.
Disable DC 28 Performance (trained) to disrupt the song’s
resonance with another tune or DC 28 Religion (trained) to
ritually silence the spirits
Profane Chant [reaction] (auditory, emotion, enchantment, fear,
mental, occult) Trigger A creature moves within 10 feet of
the section of floor from which the choir can arise; Effect
The choir rises, and its song deals 4d8+18 mental damage to
non-evil creatures within 30 feet of the souls’ spectral forms.
Affected creatures must each attempt a DC 24 Will save.
Critical Success The creature is unaffected.
Success The creature takes half damage and becomes
frightened 1.
Failure The creature takes full damage and becomes
frightened 2.
Critical Failure The creature takes double damage. It also
becomes frightened 3 and fleeing for 1 round.
GREEN SLIME
HAZARD 9
ENVIRONMENTAL
Stealth DC 30 (expert)
Description A caustic green film clings to the ceiling above,
watching for prey to pass beneath it.
Disable DC 33 Survival (expert) to carefully peel the slime off
the ceiling without touching it
AC 20; Fort +25 Ref +15
HP 200 (BT 100); Immunities critical hits, object immunities,
precision damage; Weaknesses cold 20, fire 20
Dissolving Ambush [reaction] Trigger A creature walks beneath the
slime; Effect The green slime drops on top of the creature,
attempting to dissolve it into a nutritious slurry. The target
must attempt a DC 28 Reflex save.
Critical Success The target leaps out of the way, and it
is unaffected.
Gamemastery Guide
78
78
