Critical Success The creature takes no damage and is
doomed 1.
Success The creature takes half damage and is doomed 1.
Failure The creature takes full damage, becomes doomed 2,
and is marked for damnation.
Critical Failure The creature takes double damage, becomes
doomed 3, and is marked for damnation.
If a creature that is marked for damnation dies within the
next 24 hours, including from the haunt’s damage, its soul
is immediately dragged away to the plane of the evil deity
that the damned spirits served, where the creature’s soul
is held captive by one of that deity’s powerful servitors.
Only wish and similarly potent effects are able to recover
the lost soul directly; however, it is also possible to recover
the soul by journeying to the evil plane and defeating the
soul’s captor.
Reset 1 day
COMPLEX HAZARDS
Complex hazards roll initiative and act on their turn.
ETERNAL FLAME
HAZARD 7
COMPLEX HAUNT
Stealth +18 (expert)
Description A raging spectral inferno arises out of thin air,
strengthening all undead creatures within its area. This
haunt most often arises from the charred remains of a
group of three people who burned to death, whether in
a terrible accident or a deliberate execution, and their
unavenged souls burn with rage.
Disable DC 27 Diplomacy (expert) to temporarily calm the rage
of one of the three spirits, or DC 30 Religion (trained) to
exorcise one of the spirits; three total successes are required
to disable the haunt
Searing Agony [reaction] (divination, mental) Trigger A living creature
approaches within 10 feet of the remains of a victim of the
original fire; Effect Memories of the pain suffered by the
fire’s past victims assault the triggering creature’s mind. The
creature must attempt a DC 25 Will save, and the haunt
then rolls initiative.
Critical Success The creature is unaffected.
Success The creature is sickened 1.
Failure The creature is sickened 2.
Critical Failure The creature is sickened 3, and it is
flat-footed for as long as it remains within the haunt’s
area and for 3 rounds thereafter.
Routine (1 action) Phantom flames rage across the haunted
area, dealing 4d6 fire damage to each living creature
within the area (DC 23 basic Will save). Undead creatures
in the area are infused with flames for the following round.
They gain the fire trait and immunity to fire, and all their
attacks deal an additional 1d6 fire damage. Objects in the
area are unaffected.
Reset The flames cease 1 minute after all living creatures leave
the area, but after 1 hour, the anger and pain simmer up and
the haunt is ready to trigger again.
CONFOUNDING BETRAYAL
HAZARD 8
COMPLEX HAUNT
Stealth +21 (expert)
Description Allies appear to shed their disguises and reveal
themselves to be malevolent monsters.
Disable DC 28 Deception (expert) twice to confound the haunt
with your own deceptions, or DC 28 Occultism (trained)
twice to create a ward against the haunt’s mental influence
Unmask [reaction] (illusion, occult) Trigger Two or more creatures
enter the haunt’s area; Effect Each creature sees the forms
of nearby creatures shift and change, appearing to transform
into fiendish or aberrant beings with a thirst for blood. Each
creature in the area must attempt a DC 30 Will save.
Critical Success The creature sees through the illusions
entirely and is temporarily immune to the haunt’s routine
for 1 minute.
Success The creature is unaffected by the strange images.
Failure The creature believes the illusions to be true; if
they become confused by the haunt’s routine, they can’t
attempt flat checks to end the confused condition when
they take damage.
Critical Failure As failure, but the creature is left with a
lingering suspicion of others and can’t benefit from Aid
reactions for 24 hours.
Routine (1 action; illusion, incapacitation, occult) The haunt
continues to confound victims’ senses and inspire them to
commit violence against each other. Each creature in the
haunt’s area must attempt a DC 26 Will save.
Critical Success The creature is unaffected and temporarily
immune for 1 minute.
Success The creature is unaffected.
Failure The creature is confused for 1 round.
Critical Failure The creature is confused for 1 minute.
Reset The haunt deactivates 1 minute after all creatures leave
the area but resets immediately thereafter.
PERILOUS FLASH FLOOD
HAZARD 10
COMPLEX
ENVIRONMENTAL
Stealth +22 (expert)
Description Whether made up of water rushing through the
streets that sweeps up dangerous debris along the way or
a less natural substance bursting free of its container, this
relentless flood batters everything in its path.
Disable three DC 35 Athletics, Crafting, or Survival checks
to move or construct barricades strong enough to create
a shelter from the flood. While this creates a safe place to
stand, creatures outside of the barricaded area may still be in
danger depending on the nature and the source of the flood.
Burst Free [reaction] Trigger A creature or effect breaks the flood’s
containment; Effect The hazard rolls initiative as the flood
surges forth.
Routine (1 action) The flood advances forward 60 feet, crashing
into all creatures within its area. Each creature must attempt
a DC 30 Fortitude save as the floodwaters pummel them and
pull them downstream. The amount and type of damage dealt
are based on the nature of the flood, and certain types of
Gamemastery Guide
80
80
