but typically act in more direct service to Heaven’s resident
deities, with Iomedae, Erastil, and Torag the most prominent
among them.
Petitioners known as the elect manifest at the mountain’s
base, and their subsequent climb up the seemingly endless,
unreachable heights is both a literal and figurative journey.
Progress is about personal growth and spiritual purification
as the petitioners grow more and more attuned to the plane.
Likewise, progress from one layer to the next is often impossible
without permission from the archons or spiritual alignment with
Heaven itself. Most visitors arrive at the city of Heaven’s Shore, a
place open to both traders and to pilgrims of good intent. Access
beyond its heavily guarded walls is difficult, to say nothing of
scaling the mountain. At its pinnacle is the Garden, Heaven’s
ultimate layer. Unattended and empty, the Garden is a beautiful,
transcendent mystery even to its resident deities, and the source
of the plane’s call of self-perfection to its petitioners.
HELL
PLANE
LE
Category Outer Plane
Divinities archdevils, Asmodeus, Dahak, Erecura, General
Susumu, infernal dukes, Minderhal, Yaezhing, Zursvaater,
queens of the night
Native Inhabitants devils, hellhounds, petitioners (the damned)
Hell is the realm of devils, the multiversal seat of tyranny and
malignant law, and the divine domain of Asmodeus, the Prince
of Darkness. Here every act is authorized, calculated, recorded,
and set like perfectly ordered clockwork within a vast machine
driven on methodical suffering and greased with pain and
purification. The nine inverted layers of Hell violently oppose the
surrounding fabric of the Maelstrom, each layer shaped to reflect
the nature of its ruling archdevil. Avernus’s volcanic wastes,
ruled by Barbatos, are the marshaling place of Hell’s armies,
and where newly damned souls are shackled and shuffled off
to their assigned torment. Dispater’s layer of Dis is a great iron
city: brutal, beautiful, and terrible. The layer of Erebus comprises
both the sewers of Dis and the vaults and treasuries of Hell,
ruled by Mammon, a great genius loci embodied by the very
wealth locked within Hell’s coffers. Ruled by Belial, the layer of
Phlegethon hosts Hell’s forges, while Geryon’s watery realm of
Stygia houses Hell’s libraries. Moloch’s smoldering, ash-draped
forest realm of Malebolge is the training site of the infernal
armies, and Baalzebul’s frozen layer of Cocytus torments the
imprisoned, starving damned. Mephistopheles rules the layer of
Caina, a realm of cages and torture suspended above a pit of
hungry darkness, while at the very bottom of Hell’s infinite pit,
Asmodeus rules unquestioned from his throne in Nessus.
MAELSTROM
PLANE
CN
METAMORPHIC
Category Outer Plane
Divinities Besmara, Hanspur, Hei Feng, Naderi, Nalinivati,
Nethys, orc pantheon, protean lords, Sivanah, Speakers of the
Depths, Sun Wukong, Yamatsumi, Ydersius
Native Inhabitants proteans, petitioners (the shapeless)
The Maelstrom, infinite and ancient, spawned the other Outer
Planes in cosmological prehistory and surrounds them like a
vast metaphorical—and at times literal—ocean of raw, chaotic
quintessence. Where the Maelstrom borders these other
planes, its structure takes on their characteristics, albeit in
an unpredictable, chaotic fashion. Beyond these so-called
Borderlands, however, the Maelstrom reverts to its true nature,
the Cerulean Void: a trackless, liquid infinity devoid of stability
and permanence where serpentine proteans create and destroy
with profound frivolity. The proteans are paradoxically organized
into discrete choruses, each with its own philosophy and goals
in service to the Maelstrom. Swirling with oddities and wild
magic, bereft of laws and structure, the Maelstrom also serves
as a conduit between the other Outer Planes utilized by armies
of extraplanar beings, hordes of demons spilling forth from the
Abyss, and the innumerable protean choruses seeking to return
the rest of the planes to the true freedom of the chaos from
which they emerged. Sufficiently powerful magic can stabilize
the chaos for a time, allowing for the creation of demiplanes and
stable islands. The massive planar trade city of Galisemni is most
prominent among these, drifting through the chaos.
NIRVANA
PLANE
NG
Category Outer Plane
Divinities Daikitsu, empyreal lords, Gruhastha, Kazutal,
Kurgess, Qi Zhong, Sarenrae, Shelyn
Native Inhabitants angels, petitioners (the cleansed)
The pastoral paradise of Nirvana is the realm of purest good, a
plane that promises sanctuary to the weary and enlightenment
and transcendence to those who seek it out. Filled with beautiful
wilderness of all types in perfect harmony with its occupants,
Nirvana’s wilds are home to angels and others. The plane’s
petitioners, known as the cleansed, most often take the forms
of glorified, sapient wild animals, though many eventually leave
their carefree existence to aid others, ascending to assist the
benevolent works of angels. Devoted to guiding and assisting
mortals, angels are often charged with delivering important
messages that reflect the will of benevolent deities.
Various divinities make their home amid Nirvana’s wilds,
including a host of empyreal lords and, most prominently,
Sarenrae and Shelyn. While the great cities of High Ninshabur
and Llourith welcome visitors, most mortals visiting Nirvana
witness the plane’s beauty and supernatural feeling of peace
but rarely encounter many of its residents, as the plane itself
protectively hides much of its contents from any but the most
selfless and pure of heart. The plane’s hinterlands hint at hidden
mysteries, including legends that the plane shelters the vanished
heroes of innumerable mortal worlds, peacefully sleeping until
their peoples’ times of greatest need.
DIMENSIONS
Existing in the metaphorical space between the Transitive
Planes and smaller, finite demiplanes, dimensions are a
category unto themselves, defying the neat categorization
of planar scholars and adventurers. Seemingly infinite in
Gamemastery Guide
144
144
