ADJUDICATING RULES
As Game Master, it falls on you to adjudicate the rules. This means you’re making judgments
and decisions about the rules, especially when their application is unclear. Roleplaying
games encourage creativity, and however well crafted and well tested a set of rules is,
players will always find situations that require interpretation and judgment by the GM.
You need at least some familiarity with the rules to run
a game well. But you don’t need to be the foremost
expert on the rules. You don’t even need to know the
most about the rules at your table to be a great GM!
There’s a key difference between “knowing” the rules and
“adjudicating” the rules.
While GMing, strive to make quick,
fair, and consistent rulings. Your rulings
should encourage your group to work
together to interpret the rules and to be
creative with their characters’ decisions
and actions. If your group is satisfied
with the interpretation, you’ve made
the right adjudication!
CORE PRINCIPLES
These are the most important things to keep
in mind.
• Remember the basics of the rules.
• Be consistent with your past rulings.
• Don’t worry if you don’t have a
specific rule memorized; it’s OK to
look it up!
• Listen to concise opinions from the
other players.
• Make a call and get on with play.
• Review your decision after the
session is over, if necessary.
THE BASICS
Start by looking at the basic guidelines on
page 491 of the Core Rulebook for the
fundamental principles that can help
you make rulings quickly and fairly. You
should also be familiar with the rules relevant
to encounters, exploration, and downtime, as
well as with the section in Chapter 10: Game
Mastering in the Core Rulebook on running
those modes of play.
CONSISTENCY AND FAIRNESS
As an arbiter of the rules and the person who’s setting the
scene for the action, it’s in your best interest to appear
fair at all times. Your main defense against appearing
unfair is consistency in your rulings.
Achieving consistency is as easy as explaining why
you’re ruling a certain way and comparing this ruling to
past rulings you’ve made in a way that makes sense to
your players. For example, you might say something like
“When Torben swung from the chandelier and attacked
the air elemental, I required an Athletics check as part
of the action and gave a +1 circumstance bonus to the
attack roll. Hanging from the rope bridge to attack the
giant bat sounds similar, so why don’t you
roll an Athletics check.” Do this any time it’s
applicable when you make a ruling, but don’t
feel compelled to do so for truly new rulings.
Through the course of playing, your previous
rulings will form a set of shared preferences
and an understanding between you and your
group—or even become formalized house rules.
Over time, your players will think about these
examples when planning their actions, which
can improve consistency during play.
LOOKING UP RULES
It is perfectly acceptable to refer to the rules during
a session. However, you don’t have to do this alone.
If you’re leafing through a book or searching an
electronic reference, your players are idle. There
are a few techniques that make these intervals
more palatable for the players. Letting them know
that you’re looking something up might prompt
some players to also read the rule. This can increase
the chances of collaboration and sets expectations
for the length of the pause. Alerting your players
that you’re going to take a minute and read
the rules also lets them know that it’s a good
time to tend to away-from-the-table tasks like
refilling a drink.
LISTEN TO THE PLAYERS
The friends around your game table are
perhaps your best tool for achieving quick, fair,
and consistent rulings. Sharing the task of remembering
the rules makes rules discussions collaborative rather
than combative, greatly increases the chances of accurate
and comprehensive recall of the written rules and your
own past rulings, and is true to the shared storytelling
spirit of Pathfinder.
Asking if anyone knows how a specific rule rewards
those players who have spent time mastering the rules and
involves more people in the discussion. It signals to other
players that you are willing to hear opinions before making
a ruling, and it builds a more collaborative environment.
In addition, for groups with access to a large number
Gamemastery Guide
28
28
