City of Artisans: Items of up to 4 levels higher are
available from a particular category the settlement is
famous for, such as armor and weapons.
Magical Academy: The settlement prides itself on
teaching magic, and its residents are skilled at teaching
others. Choose a magical tradition or traditions suitable
to your settlement. When a PC pays an NPC to teach
them a new spell of that tradition in the settlement, the
NPC assists the process and provides an additional +2
circumstance bonus to the check to Learn the Spell.
Religious Bias: This settlement has a strong
affiliation with a particular religion. Anyone who is
visibly a worshipper of that deity gains a +1
circumstance bonus to Diplomacy checks to
Make an Impression, Request, and Gather
Information. Characters who visibly
worship one of that deity’s foes take
a –1 circumstance penalty to the
same actions.
Scholarly: An abundance
of
public
libraries
or
other
accessible
places
of learning within this
settlement means that with
1d4 hours, a character can
access a scholarly journal
on a relevant common
subject
(Core
Rulebook
291) before attempting to
Recall Knowledge.
CHANGING A SETTLEMENT
Sometimes the characters spend a
long period of time in a single settlement.
Perhaps it’s their home base, where they spend their
downtime between adventures, or perhaps the entire
adventure takes place there. In these cases, you might
find you need to update your settlement stat block as it
changes over time.
Several elements of the settlement stat block are
simple to update; you change the population as it
grows or shrinks, and you change the leaders on your
stat block as different people move between those
positions. But you also might make changes that
reflect the results of the PCs’ adventures. If the heroes
eliminated a major threat facing the settlement, you
should remove that threat from the stat block—but if
they drew the wrath of a new foe in doing so, you
might add that new threat! You can also update the
stat block’s abilities, should the PCs’ actions have that
large an influence on the city. For example, if the party
(using the leadership subsystem on page 168) built up
a wizard school focused on crafting magical items,
you might add an ability to the settlement stat block
that increased the availability of magic items in the
settlement’s markets.
SETTLEMENTS OF LOST OMENS
PORT PERIL
SETTLEMENT 11
CN
METROPOLIS
Pirate city and black-market capital of the Shackles.
Government Hurricane Queen (overlord)
Population 43,270 (65% humans, 10% half-elves, 8% half-orcs,
5% gnomes, 5% halflings, 7% other)
Languages Common, Kelish, Osiriani
Religions Besmara, Cayden Cailean, Gozreh
Threats anti-pirate policing from the Inner Sea region, opposing
pirate forces, supernatural storms from the Eye of Abendego
Pirate Town Port Peril thrives on black-market
and stolen goods. Items that might be difficult
to acquire or dispose of in other settlements
due to legality can be purchased and sold
more easily in Port Peril. NPCs begin with an
attitude one step worse than usual toward
characters openly displaying insignia of
law-enforcement agencies, religious
iconography of lawful deities, or
affiliation with a lawful nation.
Pherias Jakar (CN female elf
troubadour) merchant master and
joint overseer of Port Peril
Sabas Odabio (LN male human
administrator)
accountant
and
joint overseer of Port Peril
Tessa Fairwind (CN female half-elf
pirate lord) Hurricane Queen of the
Shackles
Tsojmin Kreidoros (LE male dwarf wizard)
harbormaster and joint overseer of Port Peril
OTARI
SETTLEMENT 4
N
TOWN
Diverse lumber town and trade port with a storied past and a
fair share of sinister secrets.
Government Mayor (elected leader)
Population 1,240 (60% humans, 8% halflings, 7% half-elves,
6% elves, 5% dwarves, 5% gnomes, 3% half-orcs, 2% goblins,
4% other)
Languages Common, Dwarven, Elven, Gnomish, Halfling
Religions Cayden Cailean, Erastil, Gozreh, Nethys, Sarenrae
Threats aberrant horrors, eerie hauntings, kobolds, smugglers
Trinket Trade Otari has a long tradition of catering to
adventurers, and consumable items of up to level 10 can be
purchased in its markets ands shops.
Lardus Longsaddle (CN male human soldier) foul-mouthed and
short-tempered captain of the town guard
Oseph Menhemes (N male human mayor) current mayor of
Otari, patriarch of one of three local lumber companies
Vandy Banderdash (NG female halfling cleric) chatty priestess
of Sarenrae and unusually knowledgeable town historian
Wrin Sivinxi (CG female tiefling merchant) eccentric occult
items dealer, artisan, and collector of stories and rumors
2
Tools
135
135
introduction
Gamemastery
Basics
Tools
Subsystems
Variant Rules
NPC Gallery
GLOSSARY
and INDEX
