aCtivation aCtions
Watch out when picking the number of actions an
activation takes! A 1-action activation that casts a spell
with a 2-action casting time is drastically more powerful in
an encounter than an item with a 2-action activation would
be. An item like that is typically much higher level, and it
works best with “helper” spells or ones with limited utility
rather than offensive spells. The safest bet is to use the same
number of actions the spell normally takes to cast.
sCaling out of usefulness
Some spells aren’t appealing if their level is too low. For
instance, an item that casts 1st-level burning hands three
times per day might be 5th or 6th level. The problem is that
spell scaling has the biggest impact at low levels, so the spell
isn’t effective compared to other actions a character could
take. Err on the side of fewer, more impressive activations.
BONUSES
If your item includes item bonuses, check the table below for
the minimum item levels the game’s math expects permanent
bonuses to be applied to. A lower-level item might give such
a bonus temporarily, but keep track to make sure the item
isn’t effectively permanent. If a character typically picks
three or fewer locks a day, there’s no difference between a
+2 item bonus to pick all locks and an activation that gives
a +2 item bonus to Pick a Lock three times per day.
For attack bonuses, AC, and saves, the minimums match
magic weapons and magic armor. You can have other items
with these bonuses (like handwraps of mighty blows), but
keep in mind they compete with fundamental runes.
Skill bonuses come on a wider range of items. Some are
more broadly useful, so an Athletics item might be more
expensive than an equivalent Society item. Gaining a bonus
to Perception is especially valuable compared to gaining a
bonus to a skill. Just because an item is the minimum level
for its bonus doesn’t mean the bonus should be the item’s
only power. The item can and should have an additional
interesting power beyond the bonus. Likewise, an item can
come at a higher level than the minimum, but if it’s much
higher, its abilities start to compete with the next bonus.
TABLE 2–17: LEVELS FOR PERMANENT ITEM BONUSES
Statistic
+1
+2
+3
Attack bonus
2
10
16
AC
5
11
18
Save (resilient rune)
8
14
20
Skill/Perception
3
9
17*
* This is also the minimum level for apex items.
DESIGNING BY TYPE
The following guidance applies to items of various types.
ALCHEMICAL ITEMS
Alchemical items are consumables. Because alchemists can
make a large number for free, alchemical items tend to be
on the weaker end for their level, with lower Prices. Avoid
alchemical effects that feel too much like magic. Alchemy is
capable of fantastical things, but should have its own distinct
feel; where you draw the line depends on your game.
Alchemical bombs are like weapons for alchemists and
should usually primarily deal damage, with small extra
effects. Existing bombs are great models. Elixirs are varied;
make sure not to duplicate potions, especially highly magical
ones. Be careful with mutagen drawbacks; it’s easy to make
one that doesn’t affect certain characters. Look at the serene
mutagen. If its drawback didn’t affect spells, Wisdom-based
casters who didn’t use weapons would have no drawback.
Poisons are one of the trickier alchemical items to make,
and it’s usually best to just tweak one found in the Core
Rulebook to avoid making something that’s overpowered;
compare to poisons of the same type that have similar onset
and stage duration, as longer onset and duration poisons
tend to deal drastically more damage. Alchemical tools are
best used for adding a little weirdness. They can be especially
creative and interesting, but tend not to be powerful.
AMMUNITION
Magic ammunition is consumable; launching it destroys
it. Pay attention to whether you give the ammunition an
activation: any big flashy effect for its level should almost
always have one, since otherwise the effect is essentially a
free action on top of a Strike. This is particularly important
for extremely low-level ammunition, since a high-level
character could use that ammunition for every Strike
without noticing the gold cost. If the ammunition doesn’t
deal normal Strike damage on a hit, remember to say that!
Dealing damage is the default.
ARMOR AND WEAPONS
Specific armor and weapons replace the opportunity to add
property runes, so you have a lot of space to design. Choose
abilities that feel attached to the fact that they are weapons
or armor; for instance, a fiery sword that you point at an
enemy to shoot fire bolts is more on theme than a fiery
sword that casts wall of fire in an unconnected way.
The specific item should cost more than the base armor
or weapon would with just the fundamental runes,
but you can often discount the cost of the additional
components significantly as part of the specific item’s
special niche. Be careful about specific armor or weapons
that include property runes in addition to unique specific
abilities. If you discount the item, you might end up
with an item significantly superior to one built using the
normal property runes system. That’s not always bad,
since it’s still giving up customization for power, and this
can be appropriate if the item has an important place in
your story. Just make sure the difference isn’t too drastic.
If you just want to create armor or a weapon with runes
and no extra special abilities, you can do so. The Price
of such an item is the sum of all the runes’ Prices, and its
level is that of the highest-level rune on the item.
2
Tools
83
83
introduction
Gamemastery
Basics
Tools
Subsystems
Variant Rules
NPC Gallery
GLOSSARY
and INDEX
