While you can represent long, heroic journeys using
normal exploration, if you want something more detailed,
you can use the hexploration subsystem instead. This is a
method where the overland map is divided into individual
hexagonal sections of territory. During their exploration,
the PCs travel through and explore individual hexes,
finding interesting sites, secrets, resources, and dangers.
The pace of travel is measured in days rather than
hours or minutes. This means choosing hexploration
activities are more akin to choosing downtime activities
than exploration activities. Each day, the PCs explore or
travel through a region of the wilderness measured in
hexes on a map to survey, discover resources, forage, find
sites, and reconnoiter potential foes and allies.
Hexploration is ideal for sandbox-style campaigns,
where the players are at liberty to set the course of
their own adventure. The GM populates a region with
interesting locations and situations that the players
explore in any order they see fit.
DESIGNING A
HEXPLORATION MAP
The best way to map the area is with a hex grid. Each hex
represents a discreet area 12 miles from corner to corner,
which can be traveled across and explored in about 1 day
even by slower-moving groups. Hexes track the distance
the party travels while exploring and define the bounds of
certain types of terrain.
When designing your hex map, it’s best to have each
hex represent one primary terrain type. This doesn’t
mean that’s the only feature of the land in this hex, but it
is the predominant type and represents the challenges of
traveling across and exploring that hex. You can also give
your hex other elements: a river or a road might snake
through the area, or it could contain a castle, cave, village,
fort, or some other type of encounter setting. You can
quickly draw your map using just a few colors, some basic
symbols, and letters or numbers for reference.
But this is only the start. This detailed map is your GM
map, holding all the secrets for the PCs to discover. Give
the players a blank map that they can fill in as they explore
the wilderness hex by hex. The more they explore, the
more their map will look like yours.
POPULATING HEXES
When populating a hexploration map, keep in mind that
you have little control over which areas the players choose
to explore first—or if they’ll explore those areas at all.
HEXPLORATION
Few activities epitomize adventure as much as pure exploration through an unknown
wilderness. Leaving the city streets and trade roads behind and striking out into the
unknown can test the mettle of the most experienced adventurers, but such efforts reward
those seeking fantastical sites, natural resources, and unforeseen opportunities.
Because hexploration leads to nonlinear, player-guided
play, consider providing hooks within encounters and sites
for them to explore in several directions from their starting
point. You can provide some direction by presenting
jobs like exploring a site on behalf of an NPC, escorting
travelers, delivering goods, or scouting a region for a local
noble. This typically leads to a set encounter (see below).
Set encounterS
Even a sandbox adventure has a story or is the setting
of multiple stories. Set encounters, be they just a simple
encounter or an entire adventuring site, can serve as
important beats in the story behind the PCs’ exploration.
These are typically the points on the hex maps the PCs are
searching for, and the discovery of one set encounter will
often incorporate story points that lead to the next.
random encounterS
You can instill additional danger into your hexploration by
including random encounters, whether they take the form
of interesting features, natural hazards, or creatures native
to the terrain. It can help to create a series of short lists in
advance, each including a mix of three types of encounters:
harmless, hazards, and creature encounters. Then create
tables to randomize the results, or simply pick whichever
encounter you think would work best for your hexploration
narrative when these encounters occur (as described in
Random Encounters on page 173). It’s often easier to create
a list by terrain rather than for each hex. The forest hexes
could have their own random encounter list while the plains
beyond have a different list, possibly with some overlap.
A harmless encounter is just that: the party is in no
danger from it. Harmless encounters can be opportunities
to flesh out the world with interesting bits of set-dressing,
like a shrine on the side of the road dedicated to a minor
god, opportunities for the party to interact with other
travelers, or simply interesting or noteworthy moments on
the road, like a distant and dazzling electrical storm.
Hazard encounters can include those located in the
Hazards section on pages 520–529 of the Core Rulebook
and pages 77–81 of this book, primarily the environmental
hazards and haunts. You can also create your own hazards
using the rules found in Building Hazards on page 74.
Creature encounters can use the creatures found in
the Bestiary, or you can create your own using the rules
found in Building Creatures on page 56.
Plan your hazard and monster encounters with a
degree of flexibility so you can tailor them to the PCs’
Gamemastery Guide
170
170
