would take major risks to assist them. Only major favors
accrue Reputation Points, and only moderate or major
disservices can reduce them.
DISLIKED
The PCs have a poor reputation among members of
this group. Many members of the group know about
the PCs, and are usually unfriendly to them. At this
reputation, only moderate and major disservices reduce
Reputation Points.
HATED
The PCs have earned this group’s ire. The vast majority
of the group knows about the PCs and have an extremely
unfavorable opinion toward them. Many members of the
group are hostile toward the PCs, and those who aren’t are
unfriendly. When presented an easy opportunity to hurt
the PCs, the group will jump at the chance. Only major
disservices can still reduce Reputation Points.
HUNTED
The group actively hunts the PCs as scapegoats or
nemeses, even at significant cost to itself. Every member
has heard of the PCs, is hostile toward them, and would
take major risks to thwart or destroy them. Only major
disservices can still reduce Reputation Points, and only
moderate or major favors can increase them.
RUNNING REPUTATION
Using Reputation Points in the background allows you to
track the PCs’ status with a variety of groups or factions
in your campaign based on the PCs’ actions and choices.
This is especially useful for a sandbox campaign or other
structure with numerous possibilities, helping you build
a reactive structure and track how PCs are doing with
groups they interact with only occasionally. When the
point totals don’t fit the story, use common sense. For
instance, if the PCs are hunted by the town guard due to a
corrupt mayor, but then perform a major quest revealing
the mayor’s wrongdoing and saving the town, that might
jump them from the worst negative reputation to a much
more positive reputation. Similarly, the PCs’ foes could
frame them, harming the PCs’ reputation though they’ve
done no disservice.
REPUTATION IN PATHFINDER SOCIETY
ORGANIZED PLAY
Pathfinder Society Organized Play uses a version of the
reputation subsystem with various factions to offer unique
benefits for different characters, with different Reputation
Point thresholds that adapted to the Organized Play
structure. Check it out for inspiration for reputation in your
own game!
3
Subsystems
165
165
introduction
Gamemastery
Basics
Tools
Subsystems
Variant Rules
NPC Gallery
GLOSSARY
and INDEX
