FERAL CLAWS
MINOR GIFT
MORPH
TRANSMUTATION
Aspect beast; Prerequisites The relic is a worn item.
Activate [one-action] command; Effect Your hands transform into a pair
of claws. These grant you a claw unarmed attack that deals
1d6 slashing damage and has the agile and finesse traits.
This lasts until you Dismiss the effect.
FORM OF FURY
MAJOR GIFT
TRANSMUTATION
Aspect beast; Prerequisites The relic is a worn item.
Activate [two-actions] command, envision; Frequency twice per day;
Effect Calling upon the bestial nature within, you change
shape into that of an animal. The relic casts animal form on
you, transforming you into the same type of animal every
time, chosen when the gift is gained; the spell level is half
the item’s level, rounded down.
At 11th level, the spell is 5th level, and the spell level goes
up by 1 for every 2 levels beyond that.
TRACK OF THE BEAST
MAJOR GIFT
TRANSMUTATION
Aspect beast
RUNES AS GIFTS
You can substitute runes for gifts. If you choose to allow property runes on the relic, you’ll want them to take up rune slots. Otherwise,
you can give as many or few as you prefer, just like any other gifts. Runes are sorted into minor, major, and grand categories, but you
should use their normal level and Price when you adjust treasure, instead of the number and levels on the Table 2–22. If you’re using
the player-driven relics variant, it’s recommended you do not include this option.
The spirit of an animal fills you. The relic gives one of the following
benefits, chosen by the GM when the relic gains this gift.
• A +10-foot status bonus to your land Speed.
• A climb Speed equal to your land Speed.
• A swim Speed equal to your land Speed.
FORM OF VENGEANCE
GRAND GIFT
TRANSMUTATION
Aspect beast; Prerequisites form of fury gift
Whenever you use the relic’s form of fury activation, it can cast
aerial form or dinosaur form instead of animal form. Like form of
fury, these spells also turn you into the same type of animal each
time (so you have three forms you can assume in total, one from
each spell). The spell level is the same as defined in form of fury.
While transformed, you can switch from one of the three
forms to another by Sustaining the Activation. This doesn’t
change the duration.
CELESTIAL GIFTS
DIVINE RETRIBUTION
MINOR GIFT
EVOCATION
Aspect celestial; Prerequisites The relic is a weapon.
AIR
Armor (Major) energy-resistant or greater energy-resistant
(cold or electricity), invisibility; Armor (Grand) ethereal
Weapon (Minor) returning; Weapon (Major) dancing,
shock, thundering; Weapon (Grand) greater shock, greater
thundering
CELESTIAL
Weapon (Major) anarchic (azata-themed), axiomatic (archon-
themed), holy
DEATH
Weapon (Minor) ghost touch, wounding
EARTH
Armor (Minor) energy-resistant or greater energy-resistant
(acid); Armor (Major) fortification; Armor (Grand) greater
fortification
Weapon (Minor) shifting
FIEND
Armor (Minor) energy-resistant or greater energy-resistant
(acid, cold, or fire)
Weapon (Major) anarchic (demon-themed), axiomatic
(devil-themed), unholy
FIRE
Armor (Minor) energy-resistant or greater energy-resistant
(fire)
Weapon (Minor) flaming; Weapon (Major) greater flaming
LIFE
Weapon (Minor) disrupting; Weapon (Major) greater
disrupting
MIND
Armor (Minor) glamered; Armor (Major) invisibility
PLANT
Weapon (Minor) shifting
SHADOW
Armor (Minor) shadow; Armor (Major) greater shadow;
Armor (Grand) ethereal, major shadow
WATER
Armor (Minor) energy-resistant or greater energy-resistant
(cold or fire), slick; Armor (Major) greater or major slick
Weapon (Minor) shifting
2
Tools
97
97
introduction
Gamemastery
Basics
Tools
Subsystems
Variant Rules
NPC Gallery
GLOSSARY
and INDEX
