Inevitably, there will be situations and circumstances
that don’t involve the whole group. In a sufficiently large
group, splitting the party is not necessarily dangerous. If
the party splits up for more than a short stint, you can
call for separate sessions to determine what happens to
the two halves of the group, allowing them to reunite and
share their findings afterward. Whether or not the party
splits, having more players means less active time for each
character. Look for opportunities to highlight each PC by
providing challenges that play to their strengths or tie in
story elements to which they are particularly connected.
PLAYER NEEDS
Sometimes, making your game accessible and fun for
everyone at the table requires making some adjustments
to your typical GMing style or setup. The first step is open
communication so you can learn what the players need,
what accommodations would be helpful, and what type of
assistance players do and don’t want to receive.
SENSORY DIFFERENCES
Players may have differences in the way that they process
sensory information, as well as which senses they use.
For players who are hard of hearing or who struggle to
process large amounts of sensory information at once,
selecting a quiet gaming venue and establishing ground
rules about table talk (such as asking players not to
interrupt each other) can make the game more accessible.
Such players can also often benefit from handouts they
can consult during the session. Keep in mind the way your
players perceive the world when describing locations.
For example, if you have a blind or visually impaired
player at the table, instead of simply describing what a
location looks like, describe how it sounds and smells,
the temperature of the room, the feeling of the breeze,
and other aspects of the scene that they can identify with.
ATTENTION SPAN
It’s not uncommon for people to struggle to maintain
their attention for hours on end, especially for young
players. If keeping attention is an issue at your table,
add breaks to the game. Whether you’re just taking
a break to stretch and chat or enjoying a full meal in
the middle of the game, switching up the context helps
players refresh their focus. Some players remain more
engaged if they have something else to do while playing,
such as doodling or pacing. Maintaining attention
can be particularly challenging for some players when
their character is not engaged, such as when the party
splits or when they have just finished their turn in a
large combat. You can allow players to engage in other
activities during the session, such as texting, reading, or
playing other games, and then draw them back into the
game when their character is active.
Gamemastery Guide
34
34
