The River of Souls draws the attention of soul-hunting
daemons and opportunistic night hags like sharks drawn to the
scent of blood. Led by psychopomps, a cross section of nearly
every type of celestial and monitor in existence, along with some
fiends, defends the proper flow of souls against such predators.
Running opposite the River of Souls is the flow of raw, unaligned
quintessence spun off from the so-called Antipode, channeled by
aeons back toward the Positive Energy Plane.
Travelers within the Astral find the plane untouched by
the passage of time, a property exploited by many mortals
fearing old age. Time, however, is not easily escaped, and upon
exiting the Astral Plane, a creature finds this debt catching up
to them, potentially aging to dust in moments.
ETHEREAL PLANE
PLANE
N
SUBJECTIVE GRAVITY
Category Transitive Plane
Divinities Alazhra
Native Inhabitants ether spiders, night hags, petitioners
(terrorized)
The Ethereal Plane is a vast, misty realm overlapping each of the
Inner Planes. Formed by the interacting tidal forces of creation
and destruction from the Positive and Negative Energy Planes,
this plane swirls with currents and eddies of fog, lit only by
erratic pulses of soft green luminescence and dimly visible light
of those planes it overlays, visible but ever intangible. While
mortals most often use the Ethereal as a means of transit, moving
by force of will in the absence of gravity to bypass barriers on
their own plane, the Ethereal hosts dangers and wonders, things
lost or abandoned in the mists, and things spun from local
eddies in the ethereal protomatter. Predatory monsters, ether
spiders, night hags and their goddess Alazhra, and all manner of
incorporeal undead roam the Space Between Spaces.
While travelers can easily become lost in the mists with little
to guide them, the plane does host some permanent structures,
drawing adventurers or dissuading them. One such location,
the House of the Itinerant Soul, houses wayward or lost
souls, offering visitors shelter and a way to avoid turning into
undead while avoiding the pull of the River of Souls. The grand
cathedral also serves as a focus for mortal planar travelers,
given its safety and the presence of friendly spirits willing to
serve as guides in the surrounding mists.
FIRST WORLD
PLANE
N
ERRATIC
METAMORPHIC
Category Transitive Plane
Divinities the Eldest
Native Inhabitants fey, linnorms
The First World was a first draft of the Material Plane, crafted
by divinities to test their metaphorical crafting materials and
palettes of colors before setting it aside to create a second, final
version of their work. A realm of extremes—savage, primal, and
beautiful—with colors and sensations brighter and more intense
than the mundane world created after it, the First World is
populated by fey and the divine entities known as the Eldest.
Mirroring mercurial fey whimsy, the First World’s laws of nature
constantly and unpredictably change. Distance and time are
wildly inconsistent, such that mortal travelers might spend an
hour or a day within the First World, only to find a century or
only a few seconds passed once they return to their own plane.
The First World stands outside the cycle of souls, something
the fey call the Great Abandonment, save for rare worshippers of
the Eldest whose souls incarnate here as fey. However, the plane’s
proximity to the Positive Energy Plane provides an environment
bursting with all manner of strange life and a general absence of
true death for its native fey unless they leave—as did gnomes.
Natural gates in wild places of the mortal realm connect to the
First World, which fey often use to visit the Material Plane or
ensnare mortals for their own capricious desires.
SHADOW PLANE
PLANE
N
SHADOW
Category Transitive Plane
Divinities velstrac demagogues, Zon-Kuthon
Native Inhabitants caligni, d’ziriaks, kayals (fetchlings),
petitioners (the mutilated), umbral dragons, velstracs
A murky, distorted, and imperfect mirror of the Material Plane,
the Shadow Plane overlaps the Material Plane and serves as a
buffer or conduit between it and the Negative Energy Plane. The
Shadow Plane exists in a state of perpetually dim half-light, the
landscape containing similar features to the overlapping Material
Plane, but in warped or twisted fashions. Cities on the Material
Plane might exist on the Shadow Plane, sometimes in ruins and
sometimes as terrible, frightening replicas. The darkness also
holds points of beauty and relative safety, such as the great city
of Shadow Absalom. The bleak doppelganger of Golarion’s own
Absalom hosts cross-planar trade facilitated by a permanent,
one-way portal out of the gloom.
The Shadow Plane is populated by dark, altered versions of
creatures from the Material Plane, many of them immigrants that
have adapted to the shadow after being trapped in the realm for
generations. The shadow natives known as kayals—also known as
fetchlings—were originally humans before thousands of years of
exposure to the Shadow Plane and breeding with strange beings
forever altered them. Velstracs, who long ago fled from Hell, have
since adopted the Shadow Plane as their home, spreading their
horrific message of perfection through mutilation in service to
their victim and patron, the god Zon-Kuthon. In contrast, d’ziriaks
originated within the Shadow Plane itself, as have the fearsome
umbral dragons ruling self-crafted fiefdoms within the shadows.
Greatest of these is Argrinyxia, who rules over Shadow Absalom.
OUTER SPHERE PLANES
The planes of the Outer Sphere are the manifest realms
of alignment: chaos, evil, good, law, neutrality, and their
admixtures, populated by celestials, fiends, monitors, and
others who promote these moral concepts. These planes are
the backdrop upon which the mortal afterlife reaches its
apparent conclusion, and the end destination of the River
of Souls. The Outer Planes are regions of stability adrift in
the raw, chaotic quintessence of the primordial Maelstrom,
its tides forever gnawing at their edges even as mortal souls
2
Tools
141
141
introduction
Gamemastery
Basics
Tools
Subsystems
Variant Rules
NPC Gallery
GLOSSARY
and INDEX
