STYLES
These frameworks for building your adventure include
some basic elements to get you started outlining an
adventure. Slot ideas from the threats section (page 43)
into this structure, then customize as you see fit.
Dungeon Crawl
Number of Sessions 3–4
Exploration Scenes 1 long voyage to reach the dungeon; 3
voyages through long, trapped hallways or mazes; 1 secure
cave or other staging area; 2 secret passages or rooms
Combat Encounters 2 trivial, 4 low, 6 moderate, 6 severe. Many
encounters can be bypassed through secret routes.
Roleplaying Encounters 4 conversations with dungeon
creatures; 1 negotiation to establish a truce
Encounter Tropes Cramped quarters, short lines of sight, and
poor lighting conditions, with occasional vaulted chambers
and flooded crypts. Traps and puzzles.
gritty aDventure
Number of Sessions 5–7
Exploration Scenes 1 long voyage, plagued by attacks; 2–3
voyages through urban environments; 1 prison break, heist,
or other test of skill
Combat Encounters 2 trivial, 4 low, 7 moderate, 8 severe;
possibly 1 extreme. Foes are often other humanoids.
Roleplaying Encounters 2 battles of wits, 2 chances to bypass
opponents with deception or threats, 2 opportunities to
gather information and rumors
Encounter Tropes Stakes are often more personal, such as the
PCs clearing their names from a false accusation or being
paid to eliminate a problem. Betrayal, ambushes, and other
duplicity. Town fires, weather conditions, unfriendly crowds.
The Pathfinder Critical Hit Deck is particularly appropriate.
HigH aDventure
Number of Sessions 6–8
Exploration Scenes 2 long voyages, often by sea or air,
punctuated with combat; 1 trapped dungeon, tournament, or
other test of skill
Combat Encounters 16 moderate, 8 severe. Avoid low- and
trivial-threat battles.
Roleplaying Encounters 2 battles of wits; 4 conversations with
bizarre creatures
Encounter Tropes Unique environments and terrain for dynamic
battles. Swinging from balconies on curtains, fighting atop
high wires, racing chariots, and so on. Use difficult terrain
sparingly, coupled with creative ways to get around it. Large
groups of low-level troops the PCs can defeat with ease.
Horror
Number of Sessions 1–2
Exploration Scenes 1 short voyage on foot; 2–4 creepy areas to
investigate, like haunted mansions or dark forests
Combat Encounters 2 moderate, 1 severe, possibly 1 extreme.
Avoid trivial- and low-threat encounters, except as moments
of relief in a longer adventure. Extreme-threat encounters
against overwhelming foes are excellent in horror one-shots.
Roleplaying Encounters 2 conversations with doubtful
authority figures, 1 opportunity to gather information and
rumors, 1 revelation of a horrible truth
Encounter Tropes Surprising and jarring encounters, making
it hard for the PCs to feel safe. Encounters that feel
overwhelming, even when they’re not. Retreat is often the
right option (include a reasonable way for the PCs to escape).
intrigue
Number of Sessions 2–3
Exploration Scenes 1 long voyage, often by land or sea;
3–4 competitions, performances, or other test of skill;
1–2 infiltrations or escapes
Combat Encounters 2 trivial, 2 low, 4 moderate, 1 severe. Severe-
threat encounters should be reserved for major reveals of the
ongoing intrigue—an ally is revealed to be a foe, a schemer is
exposed and must call on his guard, and so on.
Roleplaying Encounters 2–3 battles of wits; 2 political or
courtroom scenes; 1 conversation with a cryptic source; 2
opportunities to gather information and rumors
Encounter Tropes Urban environments, including fights atop
runaway carriages, around (and atop) banquet tables, and
ADVENTURE PRESENTATION
When you’re writing up your own adventure, you don’t need
to go into the same level of detail you’d see in a published
adventure. You might be able to get by with just an outline,
some bullet points for each NPC, a breakdown of encounters,
and a few rough maps. Or maybe for your style of running
games, you prefer to have some text written about each
scene, or even particular lines of dialogue. If you’re creating
your first adventure, it can be good to write out a little
more than you need. Just keep in mind that things might
change in play. If you prepared more than you actually used,
that’s normal! Detailing NPCs or locations in particular can
be useful, especially if they’re going to appear again. But in
many of these cases, you’ll add details at the table and can
jot down those notes for later.
RUNNING YOUR OWN ADVENTURE
It’s often easier to run an adventure you made yourself, but
that’s not true for everybody. If you notice as you run your
adventure that your notes don’t have enough for you to go
on, you can be more thorough next time. And if something
ended up inconsistent, there’s nothing wrong with telling your
players you want to revise something you previously said.
Because this is your own creation, it’s closer to your heart.
If the adventure doesn’t go well, it can sting. Sometimes this
is because of random chance, sometimes due to unforeseen
decisions, and occasionally because you made a mistake.
Those are all normal parts of the game! One of the things
you’ll internalize the more you run games is that you’re a part
of the creative process and don’t need to be perfect.
1
Gamemastery Basics
4141
introduction
Gamemastery
Basics
Tools
Subsystems
Variant Rules
NPC Gallery
GLOSSARY
and INDEX
