You can use the activities below for your infiltration by
adjusting the details, but you should also create custom
activities that link directly to your story.
EDGE POINTS
Edge Points (EP) represent advantages the party gains
by proper planning, quick thinking, the intervention of
an ally, or some other benefit. They are typically gained
by pursuing opportunities in previous infiltrations or
through preparation before the infiltration. When a PC
fails or critically fails a check to overcome an obstacle or
a complication, they can spend an Edge Point to succeed
instead. Some Edge Points can be spent only during
particular circumstances—for instance, no matter how well
you forge documents, it won’t help you unlock a door—so
consider using unique tokens to represent such Edge Points.
PREPARATION ACTIVITIES
BRIBE CONTACT
DOWNTIME
SECRET
Cost A bribe worth at least one-tenth of the Currency per
Additional PC listed on Table 10–9: Party Treasure by Level
(Core Rulebook 509). Doubling this amount grants a +2
circumstance bonus to the check.
Requirements You’ve successfully Gained a Contact (see below).
You offer a bribe to your contact to help the heist in some way.
Attempt a hard or very hard Deception or Diplomacy check.
Success The contact accepts the bribe and you gain 1 EP.
Failure You believe you successfully Bribed your Contact and
gained 1 EP, but in fact the contact informs the opposition of
the attempted bribery, adding 1 AP to the infiltration. The GM
can reveal that this Edge Point grants no benefit at any point
during the infiltration, as befits the story.
Critical Failure As failure, but adding 2 AP to the infiltration.
FORGE DOCUMENTS
DOWNTIME
SECRET
You prepare forgeries that might serve as convincing props.
Attempt a hard or very hard Society check.
Success You create convincing forgeries and gain 1 EP you can
use only when presenting some form of paperwork.
Failure You create unconvincing documents. You gain 1 EP
that (unknown to you) grants no benefit when used.
Critical Failure As a failure, but a PC who tries to use the Edge
Point gets a critical failure, even if they use the Edge Point
after rolling a failure.
GAIN CONTACT
DOWNTIME
You try to make contact with an individual who can aid you
in the infiltration. Attempt a normal, hard, or very hard DC
Diplomacy or Society check, or a check using a Lore skill
appropriate to your prospective contact.
Success You make contact and gain 1 EP.
Failure You fail to make contact.
Critical Failure You insult or spook the contact in some way.
Future attempts take a –2 circumstance penalty.
Special Multiple critical failures might cause the contact to
work against the PCs in some way, likely increasing the
party’s Awareness Points.
GOSSIP
DOWNTIME
SECRET
You seek out rumors about the infiltration’s target. Attempt a
normal, hard, or very hard Diplomacy check.
Critical Success You gain inside information about the
location or group you’re trying to infiltrate. This grants you
a +2 circumstance bonus to future checks you attempt for
preparation activities for this infiltration. If you share this
information, those you share it with also gain this bonus.
Success You gain inside information about the place or group
you’re attempting to infiltrate that aids your planning.
Failure You learn nothing.
Critical Failure You hear a few mistaken rumors and take a –2
circumstance penalty to your next check for a preparation
activity. Word spreads around that you’re asking after that
group or individual, increasing your Awareness Points by 1.
SCOUT LOCATION
DOWNTIME
SECRET
You spend time observing the place or group you wish to
infiltrate. Attempt a normal, hard, or very hard DC Perception,
Society or Stealth check.
Success You make observations that provide 1 EP.
Failure You learn nothing particularly noteworthy.
Critical Failure You misjudge some aspect of what you
observed, gaining 1 EP that results in a critical failure
instead of a success when used, even if a PC uses the Edge
Point after rolling a failure.
SECURE DISGUISES
DOWNTIME
You seek to procure or create disguises. Attempt a normal,
hard, or very hard Crafting, Deception, Performance, or
Society check.
Success You procure or creates disguises, gaining 1 EP that
can be used only to maintain a cover identity.
Failure Your efforts result in an unusable disguise.
BUILDING AN INFILTRATION
For most infiltrations, you’ll want to detail the site
or group the PCs are trying to infiltrate. This might
involve mapping a building or fleshing out NPCs within
the organization—or, most likely, both. You likely need
to know the party’s objectives before you can decide
on these details, but knowing this information can
help you brainstorm the obstacles, opportunities, and
complications of the infiltration itself. Also, with details
on the site and its adversaries, you can more confidently
improvise when the PCs do something unexpected!
3
Subsystems
163
163
introduction
Gamemastery
Basics
Tools
Subsystems
Variant Rules
NPC Gallery
GLOSSARY
and INDEX
