Pulled
This method of propulsion is perhaps the most common,
wherein a wheeled conveyance (such as a carriage or
wagon) is pulled by one or more creatures. The Speed of
the vehicle can never exceed that of the slowest creature
pulling the vehicle. The creatures pulling the vehicle don’t
act on their own; they instead act as part of the vehicle’s
actions, and their movement as part of those actions
triggers reactions just as it does for the vehicle itself and
its pilot.
When a pulled vehicle takes collision damage, so do the
creatures pulling that vehicle (though they can typically
attempt the basic Reflex saving throw to mitigate that
damage). The death of one or more pulling creatures
might damage or slow the vehicle, and it might cause the
pilot to lose control.
For a vehicle pulled by an animal or similarly
unintelligent creature, a pilot can use Nature for piloting
checks; for sapient pulling creatures, the pilot can instead
use Diplomacy or Intimidation for piloting checks.
rowed
These vehicles are propelled by the power of creatures
rowing the vehicle from within. The creatures rowing the
vehicle act only as part of the vehicle’s actions, and their
movement as part of those actions triggers reactions just
as it does for the vehicle itself and its pilot (though rowers
often have some degree of cover).
When a rowed vehicle takes collision damage, so do the
creatures rowing that vehicle (though they can typically
attempt the basic Reflex saving throw to mitigate that
damage). The death of one or more creatures might cause
the vehicle to go out of control or slow the vehicle, but
usually doesn’t damage the vehicle.
 A pilot on a vehicle rowed by other people can use
Diplomacy or Intimidation for piloting checks.
wind
Wind-propelled vehicles require some form of air
movement to power them, and adverse wind conditions
can cause them to stall or even go out of control. Wind
vehicles that rely on cloth sails typically have weakness to
fire. Pilots of wind-powered vehicles can use Nature for
piloting checks.
PILOTING A VEHICLE
In encounter mode, a vehicle moves on its pilot’s turn, and
the pilot must use their actions to control it. A vehicle can
take part in only 1 move action each round, even if multiple
creatures Take Control as pilots on the same round.
VEHICLE MOMENTUM
A vehicle in motion builds up momentum that keeps it
in motion. Each round, if the vehicle has moved in the
previous round, the pilot must either use another move
action or Stop the vehicle. If the pilot does neither of
these things on their turn (even if the pilot Delays), the
vehicle continues to move and becomes uncontrolled, as
described in Uncontrolled Vehicles on page 176.
PILOTING CHECKS
Many actions related to vehicles call for the pilot to
attempt a piloting check. The skills a pilot can use for a
piloting check are listed in the vehicle’s stat block, but
most vehicles use Driving Lore or Piloting Lore along
with others determined by their propulsion. The creature
piloting a vehicle when an encounter begins can usually roll
an appropriate piloting skill for that vehicle for initiative.
The GM sets the DC of the piloting check using a
standard DC for the vehicle’s level, with adjustments based
on the circumstances. Generally speaking, an action that
would move a vehicle through difficult terrain increases
the DC to a hard DC for its level, and moving through
greater difficult terrain increases the DC to incredibly hard.
Other factors, such as turbulent winds for a wind-powered
vehicle, monsters threatening the creatures pulling a pulled
vehicle, or rough seas for a water-based vehicle could all
increase the DC of a vehicle’s piloting checks.
PILOTING ACTIONS
Characters use the actions listed below to move and
interact with vehicles. The effects of the reckless trait
appear on page 176.
BOARD [one-action]
MOVE
Requirements You are adjacent to a point of entry on the
vehicle you are attempting to board.
You board a vehicle through an open top, a door, a portal,
or a hatch; if you’re already on board, you can instead use
this action to disembark into an empty space adjacent to the
vehicle’s point of entry. Using this action while the vehicle is
in motion is challenging, requiring a successful Acrobatics or
Athletics check with a DC equal to the vehicle’s AC.
DRIVE (VARIES)
MOVE
Requirements You are piloting a vehicle.
You pilot your vehicle to move. Decide how many actions you
intend to spend before you begin Driving. The effects depend
on the number of actions you spend. You can’t Drive through
spaces occupied by creatures, even if they are allies.
[one-action] Attempt a piloting check. On a success, the vehicle moves up to
its Speed and can turn normally. On a failure, the vehicle moves
its Speed in a straight line. On a critical failure, the vehicle
moves its Speed in a straight line and becomes uncontrolled.
[two-actions] (reckless) The vehicle moves up to twice its Speed in a
straight line at the vehicle’s current heading.
[three-actions] (reckless) You take a –5 penalty on your piloting check
to maintain control of the vehicle. The vehicle moves up
to three times its Speed in a straight line at the vehicle’s
current heading.
3
Subsystems
175
175
introduction
Gamemastery
Basics
Tools
Subsystems
Variant Rules
NPC Gallery
GLOSSARY
and INDEX
