BATCH INITIATIVE
If you have multiple enemies of the same type, such as
four goblin warriors, you might want to have them act
on the same initiative for simplicity. If you do, you can
roll just one initiative check for all of them. They still take
individual turns and can still individually change their
initiative by Delaying. Note that a lucky initiative check
could mean the batched creatures can easily gang up on
the PCs, and a terrible roll could mean they all get struck
down before they can do anything, so use this technique
only when necessary to keep the game moving.
PLACING CHARACTERS ON THE MAP
If the PCs are already moving on a grid, as often happens
in small dungeons, you already know where they are
when they roll initiative. If they’re moving in free-form
exploration, place them on the map when they roll
initiative. The fastest way is to have the players set up
their miniatures in a basic marching order ahead of time,
then just move them onto the map in that formation.
When that doesn’t work, such as when one or more
PCs were in a different location or the map doesn’t fit
the marching order, you can either set up the PC minis
yourself, then ask if everybody is happy with where they
are, or have the players place their own minis. If you
find having the players do it themselves causes too much
indecision (especially if they try to count out distances in
advance), you can switch methods. Remember to place
characters using Stealth in reasonable places to hide,
even if that means you have to adjust the marching order
to do so.
INAPPROPRIATE SKILLS
As described in the Core Rulebook on page 489, you can
allow PCs to roll skills other than Perception (or Stealth
when Avoiding Notice) for initiative. You might find that
once a player gets to use a stronger skill for initiative,
they’ll keep trying to use it for future encounters. As long
as the narrative plays out in a reasonable manner, it’s
fine to allow the skill. If you find that they start making
up odd circumstances to use their pet skill, or that their
justifications for using the skill take too long at the
table, just tell them you’d like them to go back to using
Perception for a while.
AD HOC BONUSES AND
PENALTIES
This section covers a few ground rules for how to best
respond to PC tactics, when to apply ad hoc bonuses
and penalties, and when to use certain tactics for NPCs.
When PCs put effort into getting advantages against
their foes, there should be some payoff provided their
tactics make sense in the narrative. Ad hoc bonuses and
penalties give you some mechanical tools to emphasize
that. Also keep in mind that you can change the flow
of the story to respond to tactics as well. Changing an
enemy’s behavior can be a more satisfying consequence
than just getting a bonus.
When you’re determining whether to grant a special
bonus that’s not defined in the rules, including when
a player asks you whether they get a bonus for doing
something, ask yourself the following questions.
• Is this the result of an interesting, surprising, or novel
strategy by the character?
• Did this take effort or smart thinking to set up?
• Is this easy to replicate in pretty much every battle?
If you answered yes to any of the first two, it’s more
likely you should assign a bonus—typically a +1 or +2
circumstance bonus. However, if you answered yes to the
third, you probably shouldn’t unless you really do want
to see that tactic used over and over again.
Try to use ad hoc bonuses a little more often than
ad hoc penalties. If you do think a penalty might be
appropriate, ask yourself the following.
• Does the environment or terrain create any applicable
disadvantages for the character?
• Should the character have expected this would be
more difficult based on what they already knew?
• Was this circumstance caused by a bad decision on
the part of the one taking the penalty?
• Is this negative circumstance easy to replicate in
pretty much every battle?
Once again, answering yes to most of these questions
means it is more likely you should apply a penalty, and
answering yes to the final question means it less likely
you should do so.
ADJUDICATING ACTIONS
Some of the basic actions of the game require you to
interpret how a rule should apply. Here, you’ll find advice
the types of rules calls that can occur frequently. For rules
decisions that are either/or (such as whether a creature
can Aid or Take Cover), a PC can usually determine
before they take the action whether doing so is viable; if it
isn’t viable for some reason, alert them that it won’t work
before they spend time, actions or resources trying. There
are some exceptions, especially if the reason an action
wouldn’t work is something a character wouldn’t know.
For example, if a character tries to Take Cover behind a
wall, not realizing it’s illusory, you shouldn’t reveal the
deception prematurely.
SETTING THE SCENE
When an encounter begins, spend a moment to describe the
location if you haven’t already. Use some of the description
tips found in Evocative Environments on page 17. It can help
to describe where enemies are within the environment, to
better ground them in the location. You can also use the
enemies’ expressions to better convey the location. Is an
enemy in a wary stance as they stand near a pit? Is another
irritated by water dripping on it from the ceiling? Does a
glowing glyph illuminate an enemy with a sinister red light?
Gamemastery Guide
1212
