DUAL-CLASS PCS
Sometimes,
especially
when
you
have
a
particularly small play group or want to play
incredibly versatile characters, you might want
to allow dual-class characters that have the full
benefits of two different classes.
FEATS AND FEATURES
The Core Rulebook presents a character progression carefully designed to offer plenty of
options and depth without overwhelming players with too many choices at once. However,
you can use the Pathfinder rules to create an infinite number of variant progressions. If
your group wants more powerful characters, specific themes for all characters, or the like,
you can implement these variants.
BUILDING A DUAL-CLASS CHARACTER
When building a dual-class character, the primary changes
to the character creation process are fairly straightforward.
Choose and implement your character’s ancestry and
background as normal. Then, when you get to the step
of choosing a class, select two classes and add everything
from each class except Hit Points and starting skills: initial
proficiencies, class features, class feats, extra skill feats
and skill increases for rogues, and so on. As always, use
the highest proficiency granted for a given statistic. For
instance, if one class gave you expert proficiency in Will
saves and the other gave you master proficiency in Will
saves, you would be a master in Will saves.
Use only the higher Hit Points per level from
the
two
classes.
For
starting
skills,
apply
the
skills
automatically
granted
by
each
class,
and
then apply the larger number of additional skills.
For instance, a cleric of Shelyn/ranger would gain Hit
Points equal to 10 + their Constitution modifier per level,
start with the trained proficiency rank in Nature and
Survival from ranger and Religion and either Crafting
or Performance from cleric, and then gain a number
of additional skills of their choice equal to 4 + their
Intelligence modifier, since the ranger provides the trained
proficiency rank in more additional skills than the cleric
does (this example doesn’t include any skills they gained
from their background or other sources). This character
would also have the deity, divine spellcasting, divine font,
and doctrine class features from cleric plus the Hunt Prey,
hunter’s edge, and ranger feat class features from ranger.
spells
Dual-class spellcasters get full access to all the
spells of any spellcasting classes they have.
For instance, a sorcerer/wizard gets five
cantrips in their spell repertoire from
sorcerer, five prepared cantrips from
wizard, three spontaneous 1st-level
spell slots from the sorcerer (with
three 1st-level spells in their repertoire),
and three 1st-level prepared spell slots from
wizard (or four, for a specialist). They keep
these spells entirely separate and get
the full benefits of both spellcasting
class features, even if both classes
use the same tradition.
Classes with focus pools get all the
Gamemastery Guide
192
192
