DIMINISHING VICTORY POINTS
Using this method, the PCs start with a certain number
of Victory Points, and rather than accumulating them,
they attempt to avoid losing them. Perhaps the PCs
are trying to keep dragon eggs from cracking, or are
otherwise attempting to minimize damage, loss, or
danger. This variant is less common, but it’s great at
conveying the urgency of a situation as the PCs lose
points. Sometimes it’s necessary to add that sense of
tension with this subsystem! Typically, when the PCs
lose all their Victory Points, a negative event occurs.
If they’re on a timer, the final results might be better
the more points they manage to keep before the time
runs out.
Diminishing Rolls
Using this structure, the PCs typically lose Victory
Points as a result of failed checks, though they can still
lose them for making particularly poor decisions or
behaving recklessly. Once again, you can use any scaling
consequences that make sense, but the default degrees of
success are as follows.
Critical Success If regaining ground is possible, the PCs gain 1
Victory Point. Otherwise, as success.
Success The PCs avoid losing any Victory Points.
Failure The PCs lose 1 Victory Point.
Critical Failure The PCs lose 2 Victory Points.
MULTIPLE POINT SUBSYSTEMS
In a multiple point subsystem, you have more than
one point system, each measuring something different.
For example, in a long-distance race, the PCs and their
opponents both try to gain their own Marathon Points,
and whoever gets to 10 points first wins!
Infiltration on page 160 offers a different example of
a Victory Point subsystem with multiple types of points.
PCs try to get a certain number of Infiltration Points to
successfully infiltrate a location while avoiding giving
Awareness Points to their enemies through failure.
Consider combining the multiple points with a time
factor, like in infiltrations, where the PCs automatically
accrue Awareness Points over time at a slow rate.
OBSTACLES AND DCS
When preparing your subsystem, think of the obstacles
PCs might face or avenues they can exploit when
engaging in your subsystem. Set some DCs for them
in advance, using the normal system for setting DCs.
Everything else, you can improvise on the spot. If you
think your DCs will be higher overall, when you set the
number of points needed, choose a value on the lower
end (see Setting your Scale below).
Think of some possibilities that are much easier and
some that are harder. Who are your PCs opposing,
and what weak points might that opposition have that
the PCs could exploit? Set those DCs lower or make
overcoming them grant more VP. PCs who do their
research or come up with clever strategies should find it
easier to overcome the challenge.
SETTING YOUR SCALE
The number of points it takes to reach a goal will greatly
affect how your subsystem feels during play. If you want
the subsystem to be used for a single scene, such as one
negotiation with a powerful NPC, set the number lower
than if it’s meant to take up most or all of a game session.
The Table 3–1 (page 150) suggests possible values for
your Victory Point scale. The “adventure-wide” scale is
for subsystems that are part of a larger narrative, granting
Victory Points when the PCs overcome entire encounters or
dungeons, rather than as an encounter unfolds.
This larger scale is intended for subsystems that take
a lot of the party’s focus. A subsystem that runs in the
background during an adventure should use a smaller
scale. This is usually the “adventure-wide, sideline” value.
It could be even lower, such as if you have a dungeon-based
adventure including several opportunities to interact with
a kobold tribe to get some small benefits. Though they
appear throughout the adventure, you would use a lower
value because attaining the VP is a minor part of the story.
In fact, you might choose not to use a VP subsystem at all.
The table also lists numbers for one or more
thresholds. These are the point values at which the PCs
get a partial benefit (or, for a diminishing subsystem,
take a drawback). You should grant partial benefits
when the PCs reach a certain threshold or introduce
twists to the subsystem to ensure they continue to feel
engaged and rewarded over time.
ENEMY VICTORY POINTS
In addition to giving both the PCs and enemies Victory
Points, as mentioned on page 149, sometimes it makes
more sense to have only the enemies gain or lose Victory
Points instead of the PCs. Even though the NPCs are also
taking actions, it’s usually best to increase or reduce the
enemy’s Victory Points based on just the PCs’ actions,
since it maximizes the feeling of player agency. In some
rare cases where the foes act directly against the PCs,
you might have both PC and foe actions increase the foe’s
Victory Points.
Implementing such a subsystem might mean flipping the
normal rolls. For instance, if the PCs were trying to lower
their enemies’ Influence over a faction, a critical success
by a PC would lower the Influence by 2, a success would
lower the Influence by 1, and a critical failure might give
the enemies something to exploit, raising their Influence by
1. This uses the same effects as an accumulating roll, but
“damages” the enemies’ VP instead of gaining VP for the
PCs’ side. While this is very similar mechanically to the PCs
gaining VP, the thematic connection is much stronger for an
intrigue-based story.
3
Subsystems
149
149
introduction
Gamemastery
Basics
Tools
Subsystems
Variant Rules
NPC Gallery
GLOSSARY
and INDEX
