Irregular: What if your world is flat, a toroid, or
shaped into a cylinder, cube, or other polyhedron? What
if it’s something even stranger? With such an unusual
shape, you may need to decide how gravity, atmosphere,
and other details function.
LandmaSS
The next major step in world creation is to sketch out
the planet’s oceans and major landmasses. On Earth,
these geological features are the result of plate tectonics.
In a fantasy world, however, the oceans might have been
cleaved from the land by the actions of titans, or the
continents shaped to suit a god’s whims. The following
are some common landmass types.
Archipelago: A stretch of vast ocean, dotted by chains
of small island groups, atolls, and islets.
Major Islands: A region of seas dominated by large
islands, each several hundred miles across.
Island‑Continent: An enormous island nearly the size
of a continent, surrounded by ocean.
Continent: A substantial landform that (usually) rests
on a tectonic plate and gradually shifts in position over
geologic timescales.
Supercontinent: An assembly of the world’s continental
blocks into a single immense landmass.
ENVIRONMENT
The environment and terrain of a region can pose as
much of a challenge to an adventuring party as any of
the foes they face. The following section references the
environment categories beginning on page 512 of the
Core Rulebook.
Common environmentS
The following environments are common enough that
they might appear in nearly any adventure or world.
Aquatic: Oceans, seas, lakes, and other large waterways
are aquatic environments.
Arctic: Arctic environments usually appear near the
northern and southern extremes of a world, though extreme
elevation, unusually shaped worlds, and supernatural
forces could result in arctic terrain elsewhere.
Desert: Deserts can appear anywhere on a world where
precipitation is scant, even along some oceans. Any large
landmasses that entirely lack bodies of water are likely
to be deserts.
Forest: The composition of a forest depends on the
climate and the elevation, with thick jungles more
common near an equator, hardwood forests in more
temperate zones, and evergreens at higher latitudes and
elevations. Most worlds have a tree line—an elevation
above which trees can’t grow.
Mountain: A world’s highest peaks can stretch tens
of thousands of feet above sea level. This category also
includes hills, which are typically no more than 1,000
feet tall.
Plains: Mostly flat and unobstructed, plains are usually
at lower elevations, but they can also be found at higher
elevation on plateaus.
Urban: Cities and settlements are urban environments.
These areas are detailed in Settlements, beginning on
page 132.
Swamp: Wide floodplains, shallow lakes, and marshes
can appear at most latitudes.
extreme environmentS
Some adventures lead to fantastic reaches of the world or
the multiverse that are seldom tread by mortals.
Aerial: A world might include windy realms of floating
islands and castles in the clouds.
Glacier: Massive sheets of dense ice, constantly
moving under their own immense weight, glaciers are
frozen wastelands riddled with columns of jagged ice and
snow‑covered crevasses.
Volcanic: Hellish landscapes of molten lava, burning
ash, and scorching temperatures pose immediate danger.
Undersea: A subset of aquatic environments, undersea
environments are those areas submerged beneath the waves.
Underground: Some worlds have deep natural
caverns, while others have extensive winding tunnels and
expansive realms below the surface.
MAPPING A WORLD
Many Game Masters like to have an overland map for
their local region, nation, or even the whole world. The
primary goal of this scale of map is to designate sites of
import to the campaign; you need not detail every hamlet
or woodland grove, but having a sense of the major
features can help you and the other players visualize the
world in which they’re playing.
Step 1. Coastlines: The easiest first step is to separate
land from sea. Regional maps may only have a single
shoreline, if any. At larger map scales, consider the
placement of major islands, archipelago chains, atolls,
and islets. A world map should consider the size and
placement of continents.
Step 2. Topography: Pencil in a rough ridgeline for
each mountain range in the region. Mountain ranges
are common along coastlines where continental plates
push together. If extended into the sea, mountain ranges
typically result in a chain of offshore islands. Indicate hills
in the regions adjacent to the mountains and elsewhere as
necessary to demonstrate elevation. Unmarked terrain on
an overland map is usually lowland plains.
Step 3. Watercourses: It’s important to keep in mind
that rivers flow downstream, from high elevation toward
the sea, always taking the path of least resistance.
Powerful watercourses might carve canyons or gorges
over millennia, but they should never cross through
mountain ranges. On a similar note, watercourses
don’t branch—tributaries join into rivers as they
flow downstream.
2
Tools
123
123
introduction
Gamemastery
Basics
Tools
Subsystems
Variant Rules
NPC Gallery
GLOSSARY
and INDEX
