CHAPTER 1: GAMEMASTERY BASICS
The role of a GM can be complex, challenging, and sometimes difficult, but ultimately
rewarding. Luckily, you’re not on your own! Not only will the other players at your game
table help you tell collaborative stories, but you can use the advice here to make your
games run more smoothly and feel more exciting.
The information presented here provides helpful guidance
on how to be a dynamic and engaging GM, and supplements
the GM advice found in Chapter 10 of the Core Rulebook.
Some sections either refer back to that chapter or repeat
some of that information for convenience. This chapter
begins with general advice, then covers the following topics.
• Running Encounters (page 10) is the first of three
sections that explains the three modes of play in more
detail. You’ll find help on tracking initiative, improving
the speed of play, running special battles, and more.
• Running Exploration (page 17) gives details on making
exploration activities more interesting, creating an
evocative environment, lost PCs, and more.
• Running Downtime (page 22) covers ways the PCs
can set goals, explains how to make good downtime
events, provides sample downtime tasks, and more.
• Adjudicating Rules (page 28) offers guidance on how
to make effective rules calls and create house rules.
• Resolving Problems (page 30) presents advice on total
party kills, problem players, and power imbalances.
• Narrative Collaboration (page 32) includes tools for
players to control the story more directly.
• Special Circumstances (page 33) discusses organized
play, odd-sized groups, and players with different needs.
• Rarity in Your Game (page 35) details how rarity can
enrich the theme and story of your game.
• Campaign Structure (page 36) clarifies what makes a
good campaign and describes how to determine its
scope and make enemies and treasure more compelling.
• Adventure Design (page 40) includes tools for building
your own adventures.
• Encounter Design (page 46) explains how to build
entertaining encounters and navigate the challenges
that can arise when designing complex encounters.
• Drawing Maps (page 52) describes useful steps for
making maps and commonly used map symbols.
GENERAL ADVICE
This section covers topics related to running the game.
If you want to know how to build specific types of new
content, this information can be found throughout Chapter
2 in sections such as Building Creatures (page 56), Building
Worlds (page 122), and Settlements (page 132).
Both the Core Rulebook and this book explore many
topics, but don’t feel like you have to master them all to be
a good GM! It’s important to remember you’re not perfect,
and the other players won’t expect you to be. Trial and error,
mistakes and triumphs—they’re all part of running any game.
SESSION ZERO
Some groups prefer to have everyone create their characters
in advance and show up ready to play. However, getting
the group together to make characters can be fun, and can
benefit your game down the line. A session for building
characters is commonly called “session zero.” Session
zero is typically shorter than other game sessions, so you
might plan a short introductory scene for after everyone’s
finished building their characters, or just hang out and do
something else after you’ve planned your characters.
Having a session zero lets players share character
details, making it easier for their characters to have links
and relationships with one another before the adventure
starts, and gives players the chance to become invested
in each other’s characters by organically learning what
decisions other players made. These sessions also give
veterans the chance to help less experienced players through
character creation. Lastly, session zero can give you a
better understanding of the characters and help the players
integrate them into the adventure in interesting ways.
PACING GAME SESSIONS
Page 489 of the Core Rulebook explains how to structure,
start, and run a game session. This is all part of pacing your
game. Most sessions should have lulls in the action punctuated
by challenges such as intense encounters, puzzle-based
exploration, and investigation. Presenting players with a
variety of such obstacles can help them feel more engaged at
the table. Information flow matters, too. If the group meets
a large number of NPCs in short order, that can make it
harder for them to remember individuals. It helps to break
things up into smaller scenes and memorable moments.
Knowing when to end a session takes practice. About
20 minutes before a play session is scheduled to conclude,
it can be beneficial to figure out how you’d like to end. It
can be memorable to end with a cliffhanger—a moment so
curious and abrupt it raises questions about what happens
next. Examples include ending play before combat, when
the PCs find vital information, or as they discover treasure.
Doing so can inspire the PCs to discuss the game between
sessions. Note anything that could be satisfying to resolve
over media, such as email. This could include divvying up
treasure, leveling up, or completing downtime tasks.
STAKES AND CONSEQUENCES
A GM should always convey a clear picture of the stakes
and consequences of the PCs’ actions or inaction. What
horrible things will happen if the PCs fail? What can they
1
Gamemastery Basics
7
introduction
Gamemastery
Basics
Tools
Subsystems
Variant Rules
NPC Gallery
GLOSSARY
and INDEX
