Native Inhabitants dwarves, elves, halflings, humans, gnomes,
goblins, and countless other ancestries
The Material Plane is the prosaic universe and the home
of mortal life. Innumerable galaxies play host to countless
stars and their planets, each housing unique settings for any
campaign, with Golarion as the classic example. Other worlds of
note like Castrovel, Akiton, and Eox exist within Golarion’s own
solar system, and then beyond this, orbiting other distant stars
or in other galaxies still, worlds such as Androffa, Carcosa, and
even Earth swirl within the Material Plane’s vast and silent void.
Yet for all the profound wonder and diversity of life that the
Material Plane houses, in the dark places between the stars,
known as the Dark Tapestry, lurk the inimical gods known
as the Outer Gods and Great Old Ones, the sinister collective
known as the Dominion of the Black.
The Material Plane serves as the destination for pre-incarnate
souls, each mortal life born, living, and dying before sending its
spirit toward the planes of the Outer Sphere for judgment. The
Material Plane is likewise the focus of the gods, each of whom is
invested in fostering their own particular portfolio among mortal
worshippers and the material world at large.
NEGATIVE ENERGY PLANE
PLANE
N
NEGATIVE
SUBJECTIVE GRAVITY
UNBOUNDED
Category Inner Plane
Divinities none
Native Inhabitants sceaduinars, wraiths, and other undead
The vast void of the Negative Energy Plane is a merciless, lightless
expanse of manifest destruction and nothingness. Sapping and
consuming the life force of any living creature exposed to its
energies, it corrodes and disintegrates material objects to rubble,
then dust, and then nothing at all. Yet the Void contains its own
form of anti-life. At their densest concentration, the plane’s
energies aggregate into bizarre, black crystalline snowflake
structures, and these irregularities spontaneously generate the
plane’s resident sceaduinars. Dwelling in beautiful, deadly cities
drifting in the vacuous darkness, these so-called void raptors are
incapable of true creation and blame this flaw on some ancient
betrayal by their rivals on the Positive Energy Plane. Sceaduinars
react violently not only toward creatures sustained by positive
energy, but also toward undead, whom they view as unnatural
parasites unworthy of their plane’s energies.
The black depths also swarm with undead, creatures doomed
to a mockery of life by the interaction of their souls with the
plane’s entropic energy. Yet for all the horrors posed by the
plane’s environment, inhabitants, and its undead victims, its
depths nevertheless hide rare refuges for planar travelers.
Malikar’s Keep offers shelter, for a price, to those willing to
bargain with its titular lich master, while elsewhere the depths
hide entire lost worlds such as Fallen Duromak, and deadly
mysteries like the planet-sized, undead-entrapping glass
sphere, Eternity’s Doorstep.
POSITIVE ENERGY PLANE
PLANE
N
POSITIVE
SUBJECTIVE GRAVITY
UNBOUNDED
Category Inner Plane
Divinities none
Native Inhabitants jyoti, petitioners (enlightened)
Known as Creation’s Forge, the Positive Energy Plane is at once
the source of life-sustaining positive energy, the origin of all
pre-incarnate mortal souls, and paradoxically the most innately
hostile of all of the planes. While positive energy is deadly to
undead and beneficial to living beings, such is the intensity of
the plane that unmitigated exposure ultimately incinerates any
extraplanar beings without sufficient magical protection. The
most apt comparison for the plane’s interior is that of the heart
of a burning star, and indeed the stars of the Material Plane each
house natural portals to the Positive Energy Plane within their
glowing, potent cores to foster the movement of pre-incarnate
souls in their first steps in the great cycle of life and death.
Brilliant and blinding, the plane’s interior is sparsely populated,
and the resident phoenix-kin jyoti are intensely xenophobic.
Dwelling in glimmering, radiant crystalline cities such as
Arudrellisiir, they view themselves as gardeners and guardians
of souls spawned from their realm’s burning quintessence.
Intensely distrustful of gods and their servitors, jyoti can
nonetheless be bargained with, and they have frequently taken
into their custodianship any number of artifacts and imprisoned
beings considered too dangerous to house on any other plane.
PLANE OF AIR
PLANE
N
AIR
SUBJECTIVE GRAVITY
Category Inner Plane
Divinities elemental lords of air
Native Inhabitants air elementals, cloud dragons, djinn,
petitioners (air pneuma)
The Plane of Air, innermost of the Elemental Planes, is a vast
realm of wind, storms, and skies. Illuminated by great artificial
globes of flame and distant starlight from the material universe,
the plane is populated by air elementals, dragons, mephits, and
a great empire of djinn. Though mostly clouds and empty skies,
the plane is not entirely bereft of solid ground, including rock
and ice created by the residents or dragged into their realm from
the distant Plane of Earth or neighboring Plane of Water, and
bizarre, drifting spheres of brass and iron. While the former are
aggressively fought over, most housing the cities of the vast djinn
empire, the latter are almost entirely abandoned and shunned by
the plane’s inhabitants, who believe them cursed, entrapping
forgotten, ancient enemies who once ravaged the plane.
The djinn rule from their shining capital city of Armun Kelisk,
built atop a series of seven floating islands. Their vast trade
network crisscrosses the skies and ventures to other planes,
kept aloft by natural and magical flight, including great airships
that allow visitors to quickly and safely traverse the skies. The
djinn are welcoming and gracious hosts to extraplanar travelers
and adventurers, a perspective not shared by Hshurha the
Duchess of All Winds, the evil elemental lord of air.
PLANE OF EARTH
PLANE
N
EARTH
Category Inner Plane
Divinities elemental lords of earth, Nivi Rhombodazzle
2
Tools
139
139
introduction
Gamemastery
Basics
Tools
Subsystems
Variant Rules
NPC Gallery
GLOSSARY
and INDEX
