mazelike corridors, high walls with platforms, or rivers.
If the foes are smaller or larger than the PCs, consider
including paths, cubbyholes, staircases, or narrow passages
that one side of the fight can use more effectively.
Sometimes, though, the PCs must defend their own base
from intruders. In these situations, you’re flipping the script,
so give the PCs time to trap and ward the area. Watching
the invaders fall prey to hazards and ambushes can be a
delightful change of pace for your players.
WILD WEATHER
On a bright, sunny day, the PCs see clearly and fight without
obstruction, but adding wind, precipitation, or fog creates
additional challenges. Rain creates sloshy, muddy ground
that slows movement, and cold weather introduces the
threat of slippery patches of ice. Only the most extreme
temperatures have a direct impact on the PCs during an
encounter, but a slog through blistering heat or freezing
cold can leave the PCs worn out and more vulnerable to
foes. Light levels play a key role in both outdoor and indoor
encounters. Although torches are plentiful, their reach is
limited, and lights are sure to draw attention in dark areas.
BUDGETING FOR TERRAIN
If you include terrain that’s tricky to navigate or takes
extra work to deal with, consider whether it should count
toward the encounter’s XP budget. A fight that requires
Climbing, Swimming, or pushing through difficult terrain
can be much tougher—especially if the enemies have
strong ranged attacks. Think about the impact of the
terrain in advance, especially if the battle would already be
a severe threat, or you might kill the party. You can pick
an equivalent monster level for your terrain and factor that
into your budget, or just assign extra XP at the end if the
threat without terrain is on the low or moderate end.
ENEMY MOTIVATIONS
Every encounter should happen for a reason. Consider
a creature’s motivation to fight. Is it defending its lair?
Robbing to enrich itself? Following sadistic impulses?
Simply being paid to fight? You may realize a creature
doesn’t have a compelling motivation, or that the PCs have
done something that eliminates the impetus to fight. In that
case, the encounter doesn’t need to happen! Your game
might be more satisfying if the PCs’ clever actions avoid the
fight—provided you award them XP accordingly.
MORALE
Think how an enemy reacts when a fight is going poorly
for them—or well! Enemies who do something other than
fight to the death make an encounter more dynamic and
believable. While PCs occasionally encounter truly fanatical
zealots or single-minded creatures that would never back
down from a fight, most creatures—even nonsapient
1
Gamemastery Basics
47
47
introduction
Gamemastery
Basics
Tools
Subsystems
Variant Rules
NPC Gallery
GLOSSARY
and INDEX
