undead creature takes at least minor positive environmental
damage. In the strongest areas of a positive plane, they
could take moderate or even major positive damage at the
end of each round. While this might seem safe for living
creatures, positive planes present a different danger. Living
creatures regain an amount of HP each round equal to the
environmental damage undead take in the same area. If this
would bring the living creature above their maximum HP,
any excess becomes temporary HP. Unlike normal, these
temporary HP combine with each other, and they last until
the creature leaves the plane. If a creature’s temporary
HP from a positive plane ever exceeds its maximum
HP, it explodes in a burst of overloaded positive energy,
spreading across the area to birth new souls. Positive magic
is enhanced, and negative magic is impeded.
Shadow: Planes with this trait are umbral with murky
light. On a shadow plane, the radius of all light from light
sources and the areas of light spells are halved. Darkness and
shadow magic are enhanced, and light magic is impeded.
PLANAR STAT BLOCKS
Each of the planes listed in the following pages includes
a short stat block of key information. The plane’s type—
whether it is a plane, dimension, or demiplane—appears
in the stat block’s heading, followed by the traits that
define that plane. The following entries also provide
important information about each plane.
Category: This indicates whether the plane is an Inner
Plane, Outer Plane, Transitive Plane, or dimension.
Divinities: A list of all of the deities, demigods, and other
powers that call this realm their home.
Native Inhabitants: A sample of typical inhabitants of
the plane. Also listed are the plane’s petitioners, the souls
of dead mortals who have been judged and sent on to
whichever plane reflects the life they led. More information
on petitioners can be found in Pathfinder Bestiary 2.
INNER SPHERE PLANES
The planes of the Inner Sphere form the heart of the
cosmos. They are the home of mortal life, the focus of
divine attention, the source of mortal souls, and the origin
point of the great cycle of quintessence that fuels the
motions and stability of reality itself. Arranged in a nested
series of shells, like layers of an onion, the planes of the
Inner Sphere include, from outer to inner: the Elemental
Planes of Fire, Earth, Water, and Air; the universe of the
Material Plane; and at the very core of this cosmological
ensemble, the raw forces of creation and destruction of the
Positive and Negative Energy Planes.
MATERIAL PLANE
PLANE
N
Category Inner Plane
Divinities Elder Mythos pantheon, Gozreh
Gamemastery Guide
138
138
