INITIATIVE AND DUELING ACTIONS
Unlike in typical combat, the duelists roll initiative checks
at the beginning of each round of combat. Each round the
combatant can choose to use Deception, Intimidation, or
Perception when they roll initiative. Because a duelist might
act twice in a row, durations that last until the beginning of
a duelist’s next turn might function oddly. A duelist acting
second can choose to avoid such abilities that turn, or can
choose to act second if they win initiative on the next round.
If the duelist is at least trained in whichever initiative
choice they pick, they gain the corresponding dueling
reaction that round: Bullying Press for Intimidation,
Deceptive Sidestep for Deception, or Sense Weakness
for Perception. Neither duelist is aware of what type of
roll the other used for initiative—surprise and the use of
dueling actions are a part of dueling strategies. Familiars
and companions, even when allowed in the duel, can’t use
these actions, nor can bystanders.
BULLYING PRESS [reaction]
FLOURISH
Trigger You attempt a melee Strike against your opponent, but
haven’t rolled yet.
Requirements You’re in a duel, you’re trained in Intimidation,
and you rolled an Intimidation check for initiative this round.
If you hit, your opponent becomes frightened 1. If your
opponent is using Perception for initiative when this ability is
used, they become frightened 2 instead.
DECEPTIVE SIDESTEP [reaction]
MISFORTUNE
Trigger An opponent hits, but does not critically hit you, with
a melee Strike.
Requirements You’re in a duel, you’re trained in Deception, and
you rolled a Deception check for initiative this round.
You draw your enemy in and pull away at the last moment.
The triggering opponent must roll again and take the second
result. If your opponent is using Intimidation for initiative
when this ability is used, they also take a –2 circumstance
penalty to the second attack roll.
SENSE WEAKNESS [reaction]
Trigger You attempt a melee Strike against your opponent, but
haven’t rolled yet.
Requirements You’re in a duel, you’re trained in Perception,
and you rolled a Perception check for initiative this round.
You pick a precise moment to attack, giving you an edge. Your
opponent is flat-footed against the attack. If your opponent is
using Deception for initiative when this ability is used, they
are instead flat-footed until the start of their next turn.
ENDING THE DUEL
The duel ends when the duel’s judge confirms the victory
condition, when the judge determines one of the duelists
has cheated, or when one of the duelists yields. Note that
if either of the combatants attempts to continue the duel
after its end, the combatants should roll initiative and
proceed with normal combat.
SPELLCASTING DUELS
Like combat duels, spellcasting duels take place in
encounter mode, but their rules are not available during
normal combat. They are typically more organized affairs
than combat duels. Many spellcasting duels prohibit any
sort of combat but spellcasting. They typically have the
duelists take turns casting a turn’s worth of spells, giving
their rivals a chance to counter the spells if they can.
INITIATIVE AND DUELING ACTIONS
In most cases, each duelist rolls initiative normally and
proceeds in that initiative order throughout the duel, unlike
in a combat duel. Each duelist can roll an Arcana, Nature,
Occultism, or Religion check instead of Perception. If they
are trained at that skill, they gain the tradition focus of that
skill, which allows them to hone in on a certain magical
school corresponding to the check they made for their
initiative roll. They also gain the Dueling Counter reaction,
which enables a duelist to counter their opponent’s spell
if their tradition focus matches the tradition of that spell.
They also gain the Change Tradition Focus action, which
changes the duelist’s tradition focus to a different tradition.
Familiars and companions, even when allowed in the duel,
can’t use these actions, nor can bystanders.
When mixing a spellcasting duel and a combat duel,
use the initiative rules for combat dueling, but allow the
duelist to roll Arcana, Nature, Occultism, or Religion for
their initiative checks. They still gain the Dueling Counter
reaction and Change Tradition Focus action, though Change
Tradition Focus is less useful in combat duels.
DUELING COUNTER [reaction]
MAGICAL
Trigger Your opponent Casts a Spell from the same tradition as
your tradition focus.
Requirements You are in a duel and have a tradition focus.
Expend a prepared spell or spell slot. You then attempt to
counteract the triggering spell with the expended spell.
CHANGE TRADITION FOCUS [one-action]
Requirements You are in a duel and are trained in the skill for
the tradition you’re changing your focus to (Arcana for arcane,
Occultism for occult, Nature for primal, or Religion for divine).
You change your tradition focus to another magical tradition.
ENDING THE DUEL
Just like a combat duel, a spellcasting duel ends when
the duel’s judge confirms the victory condition, when the
judge determines one of the duelists has cheated, or when
one of the duelists yields. As with a combat duel, if either
of the combatants attempts to continue the duel after its
end, the combatants should roll initiative and proceed
with normal combat.
3
Subsystems
167
167
introduction
Gamemastery
Basics
Tools
Subsystems
Variant Rules
NPC Gallery
GLOSSARY
and INDEX
