INTRODUCTION
The focus of every Pathfinder game is the players—their characters are the stars of the
show and appear in every scene that plays out in game. But what about those scenes?
What stories are being told? What old legends are being discovered, and what new ones
are being forged? Who are the villains, the allies, the traitors, the lovers, the monsters, and
the gods? Who runs the world? When you’re the Game Master, that’s all up to you!
THE GAME MASTER
In a game of Pathfinder, the Game Master (often
abbreviated GM) is the player in charge of the story
and the world the other players are exploring with
their characters. As the GM, you set the stage for the
adventure, show how the rest of the world responds
to the player characters’ actions, and guide the action
along an engaging storyline. It falls to you to describe
the characters’ surroundings, the threats facing them,
and the creatures they interact with. You’re presenting
the challenges the heroes must overcome, whether that’s
a deadly trap of haunted blades in a lost tomb full of
ancient treasures or a vicious troll threatening the
heroes’ home village. It also comes to you to interpret
and adjudicate the rules. Game Mastering involves many
more components than playing a character, but it’s a fun
and tremendously rewarding experience.
Though the word “master” is in the GM’s title, it’s not
a role that requires or even benefits from absolutism.
Pathfinder is a collaborative experience, and while your
role as the Game Master is one of an adjudicator or a
moderator, it doesn’t mean you control everything at the
table—especially not the players and their characters.
Nor does the role require mastery, either of the rules
or the setting. You’ll need to understand the game, but
you don’t need to have every rule memorized. When
everyone shares the goal of having fun and telling a
story together, the details will fall into place.
HOW TO USE THIS BOOK
The Gamemastery Guide is one of the central rule books
for Pathfinder. It’s not required to play the game, but it
builds upon the basic guidelines provided in the Game
Mastering chapter of the Pathfinder Core Rulebook,
Gamemastery Guide
4
