paranoia; 1st (3 slots) charm, illusory disguise, illusory object; Cantrips (2nd) daze,
detect magic, message, prestidigitation, sigil
Bard Composition Spells DC 22; Cantrips (2nd) inspire competence (Core Rulebook 386),
inspire courage (Core Rulebook 386)
Scoundrel’s Feint When the mastermind successfully Feints, the target is flat‑footed
against the mastermind’s melee attacks until the end of the mastermind’s next turn. On
a critical success, the target is flat‑footed against all melee attacks for that time, not
just the mastermind’s.
Sneak Attack The mastermind deals an extra 1d6 precision damage to flat‑footed creatures.
ANTIPALADIN
There is perhaps nothing more anathematic to peace than an antipaladin.
Dedicated holy warriors to the darkest and foulest of deities, antipaladins
work to fulfill the vile wishes of their evil masters. The zeal with which they
implement the plans of dark gods makes them truly fearsome foes for
anyone allied with the forces of good.
ANTIPALADIN
CREATURE 5
CE
MEDIUM
HUMAN
HUMANOID
Perception +10
Languages Common
Skills Athletics +13, Deception +10, Intimidation +12, Religion +8, Survival +8
Str +4, Dex +1, Con +3, Int +0, Wis +1, Cha + 3
Items lesser cheetah’s elixir, greataxe, half plate, javelin (10)
AC 25; Fort +14, Ref +10, Will +12
HP 75
Destructive Vengeance  (divine, necromancy) Trigger An enemy within 15
feet damages the antipaladin; Effect The antipaladin increases
the amount of damage they take by 2d6 and deals 2d6
damage to the triggering enemy, choosing evil or
negative damage. In addition, the antipaladin
deals 2 extra damage of the chosen type with
their Strikes against the triggering creature until
the end of the antipaladin’s next turn.
Speed 20 feet
Melee  greataxe +15 (sweep), Damage 1d12+10
slashing
Ranged  javelin +12 (thrown 30 feet), Damage
1d6+10 piercing
Champion Devotion Spells 1 Focus Point, DC 20; 3rd
touch of corruption (see below)
Intimidating Strike  The antipaladin makes a
melee Strike. If they hit and deal damage, the
target is frightened 1, or frightened 2 on a
critical hit.
TOUCH OF CORRUPTION
FOCUS 3
UNCOMMON
NECROMANCY
NEGATIVE
Cast  somatic
Range touch; Targets 1 willing undead creature or 1 living creature
The antipaladin infuses the target with negative energy. If the target is living, this
deals 3d6 negative damage (basic Fortitude save); on a failed saving throw,
the target also takes a –2 status penalty to AC for 1 round. If the target is
a willing undead creature, the target regains 18 Hit Points, and if it is one
of the antipaladin’s allies, it also gains a +2 status bonus to damage rolls
for 1 round.
SERVANTS OF DESTRUCTION
Antipaladins are the polar opposite
of paladins: chaotic evil warriors
devoted to destruction. Much like
champions of good, they must follow
a code. Their code exhorts evil and
prohibits selfless acts. Antipaladins
usually serve Lamashtu, Rovagug, or
demon lords. Many antipaladins used
to be champions of good and seek to
destroy their former faiths.
5
NPC Gallery
247
247
introduction
Gamemastery
Basics
Tools
Subsystems
Variant Rules
NPC Gallery
GLOSSARY
and INDEX
ANTIPALADIN
