TABLE 3–1: VICTORY POINT SCALES
Duration of Challenge
VP End Point
VP Thresholds
Quick encounter
3–5
—
Long encounter
7–10
4
Most of a session
15–25
5, 10, 15
Adventure-wide, sideline
15–20
5, 10, 15
Adventure-wide, forefront
25–50
10, 20, 30, 40
The values also depend on various factors. These might
include the DCs, the number of chances the PCs get to
gain Victory Points, and the flexibility of how the PCs can
deploy themselves (for example, if PCs are all forced to try
something they might not be trained in, it could cause critical
failures). They might also include the amount of effort the
PCs need to spend on tasks that don’t directly earn Victory
Points—such as checks to Discover information about
NPCs using the Influence subsystem. Keep all these in mind
when deciding what end point you want to use.
RUNNING YOUR
SUBSYSTEM
When running your new subsystem, be sure to keep the
challenges fresh by using a variety of different skills and
options to encourage creativity and cooperation, rather
than just using the same check over and over again, where
PCs can expect diminishing returns. You can also use
timers to encourage each PC to participate or even create
mechanics that directly encourage each PC to participate,
like setting penalties for the same PC attempting checks
repeatedly, or for two PCs attempting the same check.
You can even have challenges that require all the PCs to
participate. For instance, if the party’s host is welcoming
every guest individually, each PC might have to make
an impression in their own way, or during infiltration,
each PC might have to test their ability to Impersonate
or Sneak. You’ll likely find that some approaches should
be automatic successes if they’re well-suited to the task,
or automatic failures for ideas that are likely impossible.
REWARDS
How you structure rewards for your subsystem
depends greatly on its scope. A subsystem resolved
in a single sitting usually gives accomplishment XP
unless it is particularly demanding, in which case it
could be considered a full-scale encounter. Meanwhile,
subsystems that span over the course of multiple sessions
or the entire campaign might generate accomplishment
XP at meaningful milestones along the way. If you have
a long-spanning subsystem that’s fairly low profile and
behind the scenes or is not success-oriented, such as a
subsystem to track what type of ruler the PCs’ patron
will become based on the PCs’ decisions, you might not
give XP directly from the subsystem, since in that case
“success” is undefined.
Gamemastery Guide
150
150
