The PC returns to their work one day to find someone has
tampered with what they’ve done.
Earn Income (Performance)
Due to the performance’s success, more shows are added,
running the PC ragged.
A competing show across town draws away customers.
A powerful noble finances a special performance but
demands some changes to the contents.
One of the PC’s fellow performers doesn’t show up, but the
show must go on!
Subsist (Survival)
Over a long time subsisting in a single area, the PC finds an
unknown berry or herb that could be useful for making a
new medicine.
The PC finds signs indicating some large creature has been
foraging as well—possibly a monster.
Buy and Sell Items
The PC sells an item of interest to members of a particular
group, who pursue the PC.
A merchant sells the PC a fraudulent item.
A shop the PCs frequent is in trouble and about to go out of
business without help.
Someone else offers a higher bid for an item a PC wants,
resulting in a negotiation or in the NPC offering a job the PC
must perform to claim the item.
Retrain
The PC sustains an injury in physical training.
Tapping into new magical powers inflicts a magical curse or
creates an odd phenomenon.
A retraining instructor falls ill or goes missing.
Someone witnesses the PC retraining and asks to join them
as they study or practice.
The PC’s training comes to a halt, and they need to acquire a
rare book or something similar to continue.
MONEY IN DOWNTIME
While the amount of money the PCs can earn during short
periods of downtime is significantly less than the value
of the loot they gain adventuring, it can still serve as a
satisfying bonus. The PCs might use their money to outfit
themselves better, donate it toward a good cause, or pool
it together to save for a major purchase. If you find that a
PC tends to forget about their money or save it up more
cautiously than they really need to, offer them rewarding
opportunities to spend it. For instance, they might be
approached to contribute to a charity in desperate need or
sponsor an artist looking for a patron.
The downtime system includes a guide for calculating
the cost of living, using the values found in the Core
Rulebook on page 294. Tracking cost of living is usually
best reserved for months or years of downtime since
that’s when someone might earn a substantial amount
of money from downtime activities and find that costs
really add up. You can usually ignore it if there are only
a few days of downtime, though if a PC is roleplaying
a fine or extravagant lifestyle, you might charge them
during even short periods of downtime to reinforce the
story they’re telling.
INVESTMENTS
The downtime system isn’t meant to deal with investing
money, receiving interest, or the like just to make more
money. Rather, investing should result in changes in the
world. PCs might invest in founding a museum, and find
on their return that the collection has grown. If they fund
an expedition, they might get access to interesting trade
goods later on.
When characters are investing in a major endeavor,
the amount of in-world time invested often matters
more than the money. While spending additional money
greatly increases the efficiency of Crafting an item, you
can’t build a fort in a day just because you have enough
money to pay for the whole process. Downtime is a good
opportunity for characters to start long processes that
can continue in the background as the PCs adventure,
provided they can find a trustworthy, competent person
to run things in their stead.
MONEY DURING LONG PERIODS OF DOWNTIME
If the PCs have a very long time between adventures,
especially years, they have the opportunity to collect a
great deal of money through downtime. Use the guidelines
for average progress and cost of living on pages 501–502
of the Core Rulebook to figure out how much they get.
Because you’re trying to convey that a long time has
passed, have them spend it before you jump to the end
of downtime. What did they invest in during those years?
What drew their interest? Did their fortunes rise or fall?
Did they acquire interesting objects or hire compelling
people? Consider this expenditure another way to show
how the PCs impact the world.
RETRAINING
The rules and suggestions for retraining are covered
thoroughly in the Core Rulebook on page 502. Your
primary responsibility here is to determine the time,
instruction, and costs of retraining, as well as adjusting
details to align cohesively with the story and world.
Consider what effort each PC puts forth as they retrain,
so you can describe how they feel their abilities change.
What kind of research and practice do they do? If they
have a teacher, what advice does that teacher give?
You can run a campaign without retraining if you
want the PCs to be more bound by their decisions or
are running a game without downtime. However, if your
campaign doesn’t use downtime rules but a player really
regrets a decision made while building or leveling up their
character, you might make an exception for them.
TEACHERS
Most of the abilities PCs gain come through adventuring.
They’re learning on the job! Retraining, on the other
Gamemastery Guide
26
26
