SPECIAL CIRCUMSTANCES
No two Pathfinder groups are exactly the same. At each gaming table, the GM and players
work together to find their own style for the game and to tell their own stories. Some of
these differences require the GM to make adjustments, especially for groups participating
in Pathfinder Society Organized Play, large or small groups, and groups in which one or
more players has needs that are not addressed directly in the Core Rulebook.
PATHFINDER SOCIETY
ORGANIZED PLAY
The Pathfinder Society Organized Play campaign is a
thriving, worldwide organization of players and GMs.
While most home campaigns provide long-running
stories with a consistent group, Pathfinder Society
provides adventures designed to be completed in a
single game session, so that players can continue their
characters’ stories whenever and wherever works best
for them. To allow this flexibility while maintaining a
fair experience, the Pathfinder Society campaign handles
some tasks that are normally in the GM’s purview,
such as selecting which rules options are available to
PCs. Pathfinder Society GMs are expected to stay true
to the adventure as it is written but are encouraged
to allow players to apply creative solutions to the
situations they face. For example, PCs may be able
to use illusions, bribery, or social skills to bypass a
challenge that is presented in the scenario as a combat
encounter. You can decide for yourself which alternative
solutions seem reasonable based on the context of the
adventure, consulting the Difficulty Classes section on
page 503 of the Core Rulebook to set appropriate DCs
for challenges. For more about playing, running, and
organizing games for Pathfinder Society Organized Play,
visit PathfinderSociety.club.
UNUSUAL GROUP SIZES
The standard group size for Pathfinder assumes four
players and a GM. Page 489 of the Core Rulebook gives
instructions for how to adjust for other group sizes, but
additional changes may be helpful.
SMALL GROUPS
Small-group games focus more intently on the interests
of the players and their characters, allowing for an
experience that can be more customizable for each
individual. However, they can also run into trouble when
the PCs have gaps in their abilities. In many cases, the
easiest way to adjust for a small group is to add additional
characters. This could come in the form of allowing each
player to play two characters or adding hirelings and
support NPCs to the party to shore up roles that the
PCs don’t fill. When adding GM-controlled NPCs to the
party, it’s important to be sure that the PCs remain the
stars of the show. In general, GM-controlled characters
shouldn’t make major decisions, and they shouldn’t
outshine PCs at their primary skills or roles (see page 9
for more information about GM-controlled NPCs). You
can also use variant rules like dual-class characters (page
192), free archetypes (page 194), or even just a few extra
trained skills to help improve the PCs’ overall flexibility.
If you don’t add additional characters to the party
or modify the PCs, it’s a good idea to tailor challenges
and storylines to their abilities as well as player interest.
For example, if you have two players, a rogue and a
bard, a heist could be a good fit. In combats, carefully
consider how the PCs will fare against each opponent.
Some monsters are particularly likely to incapacitate a
single PC; in small groups, use such creatures carefully
and consider raising the encounter difficulty and XP
awards beyond what a creature of that level is normally
worth. Meanwhile, creatures that depend on affecting
or damaging large numbers of PCs at once might be
less effective.
LARGE GROUPS
Large-group games bring together the creativity and
enthusiasm of many players, and they lend themselves to
combat at a grand scale. However, they also divide the
GM’s attention. Large groups also need to set ground
rules for how many players need to be present for the
game to run when some players are missing. Recaps at the
beginning of each session are crucial to keep everyone on
the same page. Delegation is one of your most powerful
tools to keep the session running smoothly. For example,
you can put the players in charge of recapping the events
from the previous session, handling initiative, managing
the party’s treasury, looking up rules, or helping with
accessories like props and music. (For information on
even greater degrees of player delegation, check out page
32.) Also consider which tasks really need to be taken
care of while everyone is there. For example, you could
ask your players to handle selling items, deciding which
common items they want to buy, and leveling up between
sessions instead of at the table.
Each additional player adds to the length of combat
twice: once for their own turn, and once for the additional
foes on the field. By encouraging players to pay attention
to the battle when it isn’t their turn and to plan their
actions as their turn approaches, you can shorten each
player’s turn and keep the battle moving swiftly.
1
Gamemastery Basics
33
33
introduction
Gamemastery
Basics
Tools
Subsystems
Variant Rules
NPC Gallery
GLOSSARY
and INDEX
