set of defenses against PC tactics. Cut complexity as much
as you can while retaining your desired theme.
Now, how do you want an encounter with this creature
to feel? Should it be scary? Mobile? Confusing? A mystical
duel or a knock-down, drag-out fight? What can you give
your creature to convey those characteristics? Note that
much of this feel will come from your choice of the creature’s
special abilities or spells, rather than its raw numbers.
With all this in mind, think about the specific abilities
your creature should have. Take a few notes now, and get
to the details later. You can use abilities from the Bestiary
or feats in the Core Rulebook, adjusting as needed, to save
yourself time. It helps to think of a creature that’s similar to
yours and see what makes it tick—and what you can steal
from it. Maybe you can just reskin that creature (page 58),
instead of making a new one from scratch.
Now that you understand your creature’s concept, it’s
time to get to the statistics. Remember that you can always
change your concept later on. Your creation might evolve
and transform as you go, so be open to change and revisions.
UNDERSTANDING AND
CHOOSING STATISTICS
Most of the statistics in this section use a scale of extreme,
high, moderate, and low—some use terrible values as well.
Extreme: The creature is world class in this statistic
and can challenge almost any character. Most creatures
have no extreme statistics or only one extreme statistic,
although some creatures might have additional extreme
statistics and weaker related statistics elsewhere (a
common example being a creature trading accuracy for
extreme damage). Examples from the Bestiary include the
succubus’s Diplomacy and the lich’s spell DC.
High: Extremely capable but not world class, the
creature presents a challenge for most characters. Just
about all creatures have at least one high value. Most
combat-focused creatures have high AC and either a high
attack bonus and high damage, or a merely moderate
attack bonus but extreme damage. An ogre warrior’s
attack bonus and a kobold scout’s Stealth are high values.
Moderate: A middle-of-the road statistic can cover
anything unremarkable about the creature. Use this
one often.
Low: The creature is actively bad at this. Choose these
intentionally to represent the creature’s weak points.
Most creatures should have at least one low statistic; an
example is the goblin pyro’s Will save.
Terrible: Some statistics can dip even lower than low,
to terrible. This indicates a truly awful statistic that
still isn’t game-breakingly bad. A spider’s Intelligence is
terrible, as is a dero stalker’s Will save.
PUSH AND PULL
When it comes to statistics, a creature should be balanced
overall. That means if you’re giving a creature an extreme
statistic, it should have some low or terrible statistics to
compensate. For example, if you were making a creature
extremely hard to hit by giving it an extreme AC, you’d
likely give it lower saving throws or low HP. If a creature
is great at spellcasting, it might need several low statistics
to be a balanced challenge. There’s no perfect system for
making these decisions. If you’ve made a creature that has
four high stats and nothing low, or vice-versa, take another
look. A creature’s strengths and weaknesses change the
PCs’ strategies for dealing with it, and that’s what makes
playing the game fun!
This section details the creature-building process using the
following steps.
1. Develop the Concept (page 56) Think about your creature,
and make notes you can use in future steps.
2. Build the Stat Block Pick all the statistics for the creatures,
going through the list below.
Level (page 58)
Alignment, Size, and Traits (page 58)
Ability Modifiers (page 59)
Perception and Senses (page 60)
Languages (page 60)
Skills (page 60)
Items, if necessary (page 61)
AC (page 61)
Saving Throws (page 62)
Hit Points (page 62)
Immunities, Weaknesses, and Resistances (page 63)
Speed (page 64)
Strikes, including their damage (page 64)
Spells, if necessary (page 65)
3. Design Abilities (page 67) Create the special abilities your
creature can use.
4. Review Holistically (page 69) Step back, take stock of
your creature as a whole, and tweak as needed.
TRAIT ABILITIES (PAGE 70)
This section provides the abilities conveyed by certain traits,
such as demon, dragon, and undead. You’ll also find abilities
typical of creatures with those traits to help guide you as
you plan your creatures.
DESIGNING NPCS (PAGE 72)
Sometimes you’ll design a creature that’s meant to have
abilities or characteristics similar to those of a PC. Maybe
you need a bold champion, a sly rogue master criminal, or
a wizened druid elder for your game. You also might need
a common baker, who has little combat ability but great
skill with dough and an oven. This section provides ways
you might modify aspects of the creature-building process
to fit those needs.
BUILDING CREATURES OVERVIEW
2
Tools
57
57
introduction
Gamemastery
Basics
Tools
Subsystems
Variant Rules
NPC Gallery
GLOSSARY
and INDEX
