and you automatically fail your save. Once the curse
has activated for the first time, the boots fuse to you.
CLOAK OF IMMOLATION
ITEM 7
RARE
CURSED
EVOCATION
INVESTED
MAGICAL
Usage worn cloak; Bulk L
Appearing as a magic cloak such as a cloak of
elvenkind, this garment is made of highly volatile
fabric. While wearing it, if you take fire damage,
you also take 1d10 persistent fire damage. Taking
fire damage while the persistent fire damage is in
effect has no additional effect. You can extinguish
the persistent fire damage as normal.
Any creature that hits you with a melee unarmed
attack while you are taking this persistent fire damage
takes fire damage equal to the persistent fire damage you
took on your previous turn. Once the curse has activated for
the first time, the boots fuse to you.
GLOVES OF CARELESSNESS
ITEM 7
RARE
ABJURATION
CURSED
EXTRADIMENSIONAL
INVESTED
MAGICAL
Usage worn gloves; Bulk L
These gloves appear and function as gloves of storing but
repel any item not stored in the gloves. When wearing them,
whenever you Interact to draw or pick up an item, roll a DC
11 flat check. On a success, you do so as normal. On a failure,
you instead fling the item 15 feet in a random direction. You
can use a reaction to attempt a DC 23 Reflex save, causing the
item to land at your feet instead if you succeed. Removing the
stored item from the gloves does not trigger the item’s curse.
The first time the curse activates, the gloves fuse to you.
MEDUSA ARMOR
ITEM 14
RARE
CURSED
INVESTED
MAGICAL
 TRANSMUTATION
Usage worn armor; Bulk 3
This +2 adamantine scale mail appears to have a fortification
rune but grants none of its effects. Whenever you are critically
hit, after taking damage, you become petrified for 1 round.
Once the curse has activated for the first time, the armor fuses
to you.
MONKEY’S PAW
ITEM 20
RARE
CURSED
MAGICAL
MISFORTUNE
 NECROMANCY
Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk L
This dried, gnarled hand is clenched in a fist, waiting for
a creature to pick it up. When you pick up the monkey’s
paw, the hand opens, revealing three withered fingers. The
monkey’s paw grants you three wishes, curling one finger
after every one. Once you pick up the monkey’s paw, you
cannot discard the hand until it returns to a clenched fist
by casting its three wishes. Any attempts to discard the
hand, even with the effects of a miracle or wish spell, are
unsuccessful as the monkey’s paw reappears among your
possessions within 1d4 hours; it doesn’t work for any
other creature in the intervening time. The hand returns
even if another creature steals it from you. Once you make
all three wishes, the monkey’s paw uses
plane shift to travel to a random point in
the multiverse.
Whenever the monkey’s paw hears you utter a
statement that sounds like a wish, even if you don’t
use the words “I wish,” it activates and grants a twisted,
horrifying version of your wish, producing any effect within
the possibility of alter reality, miracle, primal phenomenon, or
wish, and potentially a greater effect at the GM’s discretion.
NECKLACE OF STRANGULATION
ITEM 15
RARE
CURSED
INVESTED
MAGICAL
 TRANSMUTATION
Usage worn necklace; Bulk L
This beautiful necklace appears to be a magical item such
as a necklace of fireballs or a pendant of the occult. When
invested, it magically locks in place, suspiciously tightly, and
fuses to you. When you enter a situation of extreme stress
(as determined by the GM), the necklace tightens around your
neck, suffocating you (Core Rulebook 478) and dealing 30
bludgeoning damage to you at the end of each of your turns.
Once per round, you can spend a single action to attempt a
DC 34 Athletics check or Fortitude save; success means you
don’t take the damage on your current turn, but you continue
suffocating. The necklace loosens after you’ve been dead for
a month.
POISONOUS CLOAK
ITEM 13+
RARE
CURSED
INVESTED
MAGICAL
 TRANSMUTATION
Usage worn cloak; Bulk L
This innocuous-looking cloak is associated with a type of
poison, set at the cloak’s creation. It often appears as a
clandestine cloak or a cloak of the bat to the unaware. When
you invest this cloak, you lose any resistance to poison
damage, and anytime you take piercing or slashing damage in
combat, you are exposed to the type of poison associated with
the poisonous cloak with no onset, even if it’s not an injury
poison. Once the curse has activated for the first time, the
cloak fuses to you.
Type I; Level 6; Poison giant scorpion venom
Type II; Level 10; Poison wolfsbane
Type III; Level 13; Poison purple worm venom
Type IV; Level 17; Poison hemlock
RING OF TRUTH
ITEM 10
RARE
CURSED
 ENCHANTMENT
INVESTED
MAGICAL
Usage worn; Bulk —
This ring appears to be a ring of lies, but when invested, close
investigation reveals angelic wings and divine creatures
hidden on the face of the ring. When you invest the ring, you
are rendered unable to tell a deliberate lie, in either speech
or writing. If you attempt to omit the truth or phrase things
truthfully but deceptively, roll a DC 11 flat check; on a failure,
the ring itself blurts out the entire truth (as you believe it) as
an answer. Keeping silent does not activate the ring’s curse.
Once the curse has activated for the first time, the ring fuses
to you.
MONKEY’S PAW
2
Tools
9191
introduction
Gamemastery
Basics
Tools
Subsystems
Variant Rules
NPC Gallery
GLOSSARY
and INDEX
