SECONDARY OBJECTIVES
One of the simplest and most exciting ways to create
a dynamic encounter, even if the combat itself is not so
difficult, is to add a secondary objective beyond simply
defeating foes. Perhaps the villains are about to burn
captives in a fire, and some of the PCs need to divert their
efforts to avoid a pyrrhic victory. Encounters with a parallel
objective that require PCs to take actions other than
destroying foes can keep those foes around long enough to
do interesting things without inflating their power level. It
also makes PCs skilled in areas related to the side mission
feel amazing when they handle it quickly or well.
Sometimes a secondary objective might present a time
limit, like if the PCs need to prevent evidence from being
burned, either by fighting quickly or actively protecting
the documents. Another type of secondary objective
relates to how the PCs engage in combat with the primary
opposition. The PCs might need to use nonlethal attacks
against guards who mistakenly believe the PCs are
criminals, or they might need to prevent slippery scouts
from retreating to alert others. Options like these highlight
mobile characters like the monk. You could even create
truly off-the-wall secondary objectives that require the PCs
to lose the encounter in order to succeed. The PCs might
need to put up a believable fight but retreat and let foes steal
their caravan in order to follow the foes back to their lair.
Secondary objectives are a great way to highlight different
abilities in combat and make for a memorable encounter,
but—like all of these tactics—they can become annoying
if overused.
OPPONENT SYNERGY
Most encounters assume that the PCs’ opponents work
together to oppose the PCs, but when groups of foes have
been collaborating and fighting together for a long time,
they can develop additional strategies. Consider giving each
member of these tightly knit teams a reaction triggered by
their allies’ abilities, or another benefit they gain based on
their allies’ actions. Just as a team of PCs learns how to best
position the rogue to flank enemies and minimize the harm
they take from the wizard’s fireball spell, NPCs can learn
to complement each other’s strategies and avoid interfering
with each other. On the opposite end of the spectrum,
opponents with poor coordination make the fight much
easier for the PCs. Poor coordination between mindless
creatures is common, and PCs can use clever tactics to
run circles around these foes. When intelligent creatures
accidentally (or deliberately) harm each other or pursue
conflicting strategies, particularly if they engage in banter
with each other as they fight, it can make for an amusing
break in the typical rhythm of combat.
When taken to its extreme, synergy can represent the
actions of a hive mind or a single massive creature. These
synergistic components can be creatures, hazards, or both.
For example, instead of representing a kraken the size of
a warship as a single foe, you could represent each of its
tentacles as an individual opponent. Perhaps the kraken
can sacrifice actions it would otherwise use to crush PCs
in its maw to use its tentacles more freely. In this case, you
could model a field of tentacles as a complex hazard that
mainly reacts to the PCs moving within it, but allow the
kraken’s head to act with a few tentacles directly.
MISDIRECTION
Sometimes, a bit of misdirection can add a lot of interest
to an encounter, especially against offense-heavy groups.
Rather than amping up the opposition to match the PCs’
firepower and creating opponents whose own offenses are
too powerful for the PCs’ defenses, consider a little sleight
of hand. For instance, a villain might have an illusory or
disguised decoy target with just enough durability to take
a few hits while the true villain is hiding nearby, ready to
emerge and attack. Spells like project image can allow a
foe to attack from a safer position, and possession grants
the foe a disposable body unless the PCs brought along
spirit blast or similar magic. Sometimes you can even hide
the villain in plain sight: for instance, in an encounter with
three goblins with similar-looking gear and an ogre, one
of the goblins might be the biggest threat, but the PCs are
likely to target the ogre first.
PITFALLS
This section arms you with a wide variety of useful tricks to
add interest to your encounters, but you should keep an eye
out for some common pitfalls of encounter building.
• Don’t Make Every Encounter Complex: There are many
ways to make complex and dynamic encounters, but
making every single encounter complex will become
exhausting for you and your players. Some encounters
should be simple, both because it will make the world feel
more real and because it’s a good way for the group to relax
without as much to keep track of.
• Avoid Flat Difficulty: Ensure that not too many of your
encounters fall at the same threat level. Having some low-
and even trivial-threat battles adds variety, and it’s great to
throw in a few severe encounters beyond just bosses.
• Beware of Unexpected Difficulty: You might end up with
creatures that have abilities that fit well together, making
them extremely powerful as a combo, or that are particularly
well-suited against your PCs. Compare the creatures and
what you know about your PCs in advance, especially if
the encounter is already a severe threat by the numbers.
Page 16 has suggestions for what to do if you find a spike in
difficulty during an encounter rather than in advance.
• Watch for Overpowered Terrain: As noted under Budgeting
for Terrain, some features of the environment can increase
the danger drastically. Consider your creature and the
environment, and see whether the creature has a massive
advantage compared to PCs in that terrain, such as a
monster with powerful, long-range attacks when PCs are
stuck at a distance. If so, you might want to adjust.
Gamemastery Guide
50
50
