STEP 4: INFLUENTIAL ASSOCIATE
You may have had several people who played key roles
in developing their skills and personality, but one likely
stands out as the most influential. Use one of the results
below as a template to develop an NPC in deeper detail.
Work with your GM to determine the current fate of this
NPC and whether you can still call upon the NPC for aid.
TABLE 4–8: INFLUENTIAL ASSOCIATE
1d20 Result
1
The Academic One of your associates had a thirst for
knowledge that could never be satisfied with simple
answers. Through this association, you developed
a keen appreciation for numbers, geometry, logic,
hard study, and problem-solving. Add an Intelligence
ability boost to your background options.
2
The Boss You once gained employment under a
powerful individual with far-reaching influence.
When the boss spoke up, everyone listened. This
could have been a military commander, village
leader, guild head, or gang boss. From the boss,
you learned how to make people listen and keep
them in line. Add a Charisma ability boost to your
background options.
3
The Champion You were close to someone who
excelled at athletic endeavors and tests of strength
or skill. Through your friendship or rivalry, you
developed a competitive spirit that continues to drive
you in everything you do. Add a Strength ability
boost to your background options.
4
The Confidante You could tell this person anything.
They know your deepest secrets and vulnerabilities
just as you know theirs, and thinking critically
about another’s perspective became second nature
to you. Add an Intelligence ability boost to your
background options.
5
The Crafter One of your major influences cherished
perfection through art. From this person, you
developed a disciplined mind, a solitary focus,
and the ability to create something useful and
beautiful. Add an Intelligence ability boost to your
background options.
6
The Criminal One of your associates committed
crimes regularly. They regaled you with many stories
of daring robberies and break-ins—perhaps even
murders. You learned what you know of the criminal
element from this friend. Add a Dexterity ability
boost to your background options.
7
The Dead One One of your greatest influences was
a sapient undead creature, such as a ghost, lich,
graveknight, or vampire. Through this strange
relationship, you learned of its mortal life, giving
you perspective on your own life. Add a Constitution
ability boost to your background options.
4
Variant Rules
189
189
introduction
Gamemastery
Basics
Tools
Subsystems
Variant Rules
NPC Gallery
GLOSSARY
and INDEX
