sustain them. The Abyss manifests as cracks in the Outer
Sphere’s fabric, while rising from the metropolitan Axis is
the Boneyard’s spire, the location where mortal souls are
judged and then sent to their final destinations, be they
reward, suffering, or oblivion. The Outer Planes are places
of majesty, wonder, terror, and danger outstripping anything
mortal adventurers might encounter anywhere else.
ABADDON
PLANE
NE
Category Outer Plane
Divinities Ahriman, daemon harbingers, Fumeiyoshi, Horsemen
of the Apocalypse, Lao Shu Po, Urgathoa, Zyphus
Native Inhabitants daemons, night hags, nightmares, petitioners
(the hunted)
A perpetual eclipse looms above the bleak wastelands of
Abaddon, shedding an eerie half-light over a landscape of toxic,
disease-ridden swamps, volcanic wastes, fog-shrouded forests,
and the glittering, memory-devouring ribbon of the River Styx.
An unnatural silence blankets the plane, cut only by the wails
of petitioners falling from the sky like screaming, falling stars,
or those already condemned upon the ground, desperate to find
safety that doesn’t exist. Daemons, the physical embodiments
of death and oblivion, roam unchecked, owing allegiance only to
the Four Horsemen of the Apocalypse: Death, Famine, Pestilence,
and War. In the courts of the Horsemen and the neutral grounds
of trade cities such as Awaiting-Consumption, the soul trade
serves daemonic hunger and industrialized oblivion. Night
hags and other creatures ply the trade or make their way along
the margins of daemonic society, eager to avoid consumption
themselves by the plane’s nihilistic masters. Urgathoa and
Zyphus claim divine domains here, their petitioners granted
freedom from predation. Yet something far worse glares down
upon these gods and the Horseman alike. Abaddon’s perpetual
eclipse may be nothing less than the lidded, comatose eye of the
Bound Prince, the First Horseman, betrayed and cast down by
the Four, forgotten by the cosmos at large, but far too powerful
for them to destroy—waiting, watching, and hungering.
ABYSS
PLANE
CE
Category Outer Plane
Divinities Camazotz, demon lords, Droskar, Ghlaunder, goblin
hero-gods, Gyronna, Lady Nanbyo, Lamashtu, nascent demon
lords, qlippoth lords
Native Inhabitants demons, petitioners (larvae), qlippoth
Like a corrosive rot in the roots of the Outer Sphere, or an
antithetical, rival reality run aground into the Maelstrom at the
dawn of time, the Abyss is a place of horror and destruction
fed by mortal sin. Each of its innumerable regions is a unique
iteration of chaos and evil, each with its own terrible and twisted
environment, with one driving maxim: the strong survive, while
the weak suffer and are destroyed. Ruled by demons, and before
them by the alien, nightmarish qlippoth, the Abyss and its native
beings seek only to ravage and destroy. While demons routinely
rampage out into other planes when the Abyss manifests a
great planar rift, the denizens of the Abyss are fractured and
self-destructive. Demon lords such as Dagon, Pazuzu, and Zura,
and even gods including the ascended demon lord Lamashtu, the
Mother of Monsters, fight for dominion over the Abyss as much
or more than they threaten the other planes. Though dangerous,
not every realm of the Abyss is immediately hostile to the
prepared traveler. Shamira’s city of Alushinyrra in the Midnight
Isles and Abraxas’s library-city of Diovengia in the realm of
Pleroma are each welcoming in their own dark ways. Even those
who survive a journey through the Abyss, however, inevitably
must resist being deeply corrupted by the experience.
AXIS
PLANE
LN
Category Outer Plane
Divinities Abadar, Brigh, Chaldira, halfling pantheon, Irori,
Lissala, Milani, Norgorber, primeval inevitables
Native Inhabitants aeons, inevitables, petitioners (remade)
Axis is a realm of pure, absolute law, unhindered by the
moral concerns of good or evil. The plane takes the form of
a vast, gleaming, perfectly structured city. Built at the base
of Pharasma’s Spire, the Perfect City is a bulwark against
the chaos of the Maelstrom and Abyss, with vast mechanical
armies of inevitables marching forth to explore, define, and
pacify an imperfect, unruly universe. Axis is also home
to axiomites: beings composed of living mathematics and
equations who helped create the first inevitables. Axiomites
continue to work on the maintenance of the inevitables, but
increasingly turn their attentions to the planar city of Axis
itself; as with any city, Axis requires non-stop maintenance
and improvement in order to resist the march of time.
Axis’s natives are far from the only inhabitants of their
cosmopolitan realm. Devils and archons often visit along with
petitioners, mortal travelers, and smaller numbers of most every
other kind of extraplanar being. Abadar and other lawful deities
make their homes here. The empty, former domain of Aroden
languishes here, while below the streets lies Norgorber’s domain,
a labyrinthine undercity.
BONEYARD
PLANE
N
TIMELESS
Category Outer Plane
Divinities Achaekek, Groetus, psychopomp ushers, Pharasma
Native Inhabitants petitioners (the dead), psychopomps,
The Boneyard spans an impossibly tall and ever-growing spire
of gleaming quintessence that rises up into the silver void
of the Astral Plane. As the destination of the River of Souls,
the Boneyard is where the souls of the mortal dead arrive for
judgment and for Pharasma and her psychopomp servitors to
direct them to their respective afterlives. Pharasma’s domain is
separated into eight courts, each corresponding to one of the
other planes of the Outer Sphere and collecting the souls due
to that plane. Not every soul goes unchallenged, and proxies
of gods and planes argue and debate over souls, with final
arbitration conducted by Pharasma herself.
While Pharasma rules absolutely within the Boneyard,
Gamemastery Guide
142
142
