INVESTIGATIONS
The Investigate exploration activity is pretty broad and
can lead into a more thorough investigation scene. Lead
off with a definite clue that has details but clearly isn’t
the whole picture: “These runes look like ones used for
arcane magic but are some kind of variant form,” “As
you assess the architecture of the room, you see the pillar
caps are all made of granite, except for one that appears
to be painted plaster,” or “Each of the stained glass shows
scenes of one of the god Norgorber’s aspects, but there are
only three windows, and Norgorber has four aspects.”
Then, if this piques a player’s interest, you can go
into a more detailed investigation. They might
look at the runes more closely, chip away
at the plaster, or search around for a
representation of Norgorber’s
fourth aspect. Avoid calling
for checks if it’s not
necessary. In the last
example, you’d likely
tell them which of the
deity’s aspects is missing
without another Religion
check, and if the aspect is
represented as a statue in the room, asking for a Perception
check to find it might short-circuit the investigation in an
uninteresting way.
To make the investigation feel real, it helps to talk the
player through their character’s thought processes by
saying what clue inspired them to think of an important
detail, explaining what the detail is, and possibly
mentioning a further question that detail raises. Then
let the player extrapolate rather than telling them their
conclusion. Even if the investigation doesn’t lead to a an
unambiguous conclusion, the players should feel they’re
more informed than when they started.
Though one person starts the investigation, getting
others involved can help them become more interested
and bring different skills to bear to get other types of
information. Reward collaboration and clever ideas.
GETTING LOST
When PCs are exploring the wilderness or twisting
dungeon corridors, they might get lost. This is most likely
if they fail to Sense their Direction using Survival but can
also happen based on the story, such as if they drop out
of a portal in some strange land or come up from an
underground passageway into a forest. Playing through
the process of wandering in the wilderness and trying to
find their way can be fun for a party, provided it’s a fairly
short interval. If a party is lost at the start of a session,
they should usually have found their way and reached a
significant destination by the end.
The Sense Direction activity uses Survival to find north.
You can combine this with Recalling Knowledge about
the area—typically using Nature or Society—for the PCs
to get their initial bearings. The DCs for these checks are
normally trained or expert if the group is still fairly close
to settlements or established nations but might be higher
in deep wilderness. As the PCs try to find their way, think
of ways to include notable landmarks they can seek out
or stumble upon. Some of these might be useful, such as a
great tree off in the distance they can climb to get a better
vantage point or a mountain slope where multiple plumes
of smoke billow up, indicating a settlement. Others might
be mysterious or dangerous, such as
haunted glades or animal hunting
grounds. When the PCs first look
around or scout, pick two or
three landmarks to point out.
Let the group decide on
their course from there.
If the trek takes
multiple days, you
can
move
through
each day pretty quickly.
You might need to have the group Subsist if they run out
of food, and you might want to include some encounters
if they’re in a dangerous area. For these encounters,
choose creatures that live in that type of environment.
Remember that not all creatures attack on sight. Friendly
or cautious creatures might approach, resulting in more
interactive scenes that might even help the PCs.
If the PCs get unlucky or are just awful at Survival,
you might end up stuck with no way for them to reorient
themselves. In these cases, have someone come to them!
They might get captured by local humanoids or monsters
or stumble upon a dangerous location. They’ve figured
out where they are, even if it’s not where they wanted
to be!
SURPRISE ATTACKS
Page 499 of the Core Rulebook covers the mechanics of
how surprise attacks occur while PCs rest. Such surprise
attacks should be used sparingly, even in dangerous
areas. The fact that PCs are in a group scares away
most animals and setting a watch can deter even more
attackers. Surprise attacks are most likely if the PCs did
something in advance that would lead to the ambush. For
instance, they might be ambushed by bandits if they were
flaunting their wealth or showing off expensive items
earlier in the session, or they might be counterattacked
by enemies if they attack the enemies first, only to retreat
to rest. If the PCs set up camp hastily and decide not to
set a watch, they might be in trouble if they’re attacked.
This should happen only in cases of extreme sloppiness,
since if you take advantage of minor lapses, you might
end up with a group that repeatedly spends an inordinate
amount of time describing all their camping preparation
to keep it from happening again. It’s usually better to ask
the PCs if they’re setting up watches, rather than assume
that their silence on the issue means they aren’t.
1
Gamemastery Basics
2121
introduction
Gamemastery
Basics
Tools
Subsystems
Variant Rules
NPC Gallery
GLOSSARY
and INDEX
