Exploration Scenes 1 tour of a kingdom or other central locale;
1 adventure into the wilds on a hunting trip or bandit hunt;
1 tournament to prove a PC’s love or worth
Combat Encounters 3 low, 6 moderate, 3 severe. Emphasize
emotional stakes and battles that end with the loss of honor
or pride, not life.
Roleplaying Encounters 2 battles of wits, 1 grand ball,
1 entreaty before a ruler, 2 scenes of relaxation or carousing
with unexpected import
Encounter Tropes Duels—social or combat—against romantic
rivals. PCs and their foes fight only for a purpose or cause.
Savvy enemies have strong connections to the PCs.
THREATS
Think of each type of threat as the deep, visceral danger
the enemies represent. NPCs should be avatars of the
threat, whether they’re enemies who represent different
aspects of the threat or allies and bystanders damaged by
it. Each threat entry gives a brief description, followed by
some bullet points you can use to guide you in expressing
the consequences of the threat. This is followed by
monsters that typify this theme. As always, you can come
up with your own thematic threats too!
CorruPtion
The opposition wants to weaken or even change the motivation
of a place, person, institution, ideal, or group.
• Show the effects of corruption on people and places,
especially those closely connected to the PCs. Once-safe
areas become less friendly and present threats, allies
become unable to help or even turn against the PCs.
• Make enemies subtle; patient; and willing to allow rumors,
lies, diseases, and poisons time to take effect. In battle,
they may be satisfied to curse PCs and their allies or
otherwise inflict long-term afflictions, then retreat.
• Contrast the corruption with education, healing, and
working towards betterment.
• When the PCs make progress, allow them to expose agents
of corruption, and inoculate allies and neutral parties
against the growing threat or educate them about it.
Foes alghollthu, fiends, undead
Devastation
The opposition wants to destroy or lay waste to a place,
person, institution, ideal, or group.
• Show the effects of destruction on people and
places, especially those the PCs hold dear.
Show them desperate, devoid of resources, and
psychologically changed.
• Make enemies hard to reason with and overwhelming in
number. In battle, they want not just to win, but to kill,
maim, or devour.
• Contrast devastation with forces of preservation and order.
• When the PCs make progress, show the slow recovery
from devastation.
Foes chromatic dragons, demons, orcs
extreMisM
The opposition seeks a massive change—one they think is for
the better. Their violent means of achieving it put them in
conflict with the PCs.
• Demonstrate the ruthlessness of the enemy, especially the
discrepancy between their care for their cause and their
ambivalence or hatred toward everything else.
• Have enemies focus purely on their goal. Have them fall
back on their rhetoric or dogma to justify themselves.
• If something about the extremists’ cause is just—such as
preserving the natural world or protecting their people—
reveal the foes’ sympathetic side. Demonstrate the horror
1
Gamemastery Basics
43
43
introduction
Gamemastery
Basics
Tools
Subsystems
Variant Rules
NPC Gallery
GLOSSARY
and INDEX
