COMBINING AND SEPARATING ENCOUNTERS
Picture this: the PCs storm a castle. They choose to eschew
stealth in favor of a direct approach. On the ramparts, a
guard spots them and raises an alarm. The sound of horns
and whistles blare throughout the keep as each defender
ensures that everyone is ready for a fight. And then, they
politely wait in whatever room they were already standing
in for the PCs to come and attack them. It sounds pretty
unrealistic, and it feels unrealistic at the table. Many
players find it far more satisfying when their foes take
reasonable actions and countermeasures against them.
This means moving to defensible positions or banding
together with allies. Taken to an extreme, combining
encounters can quickly lead to fights that are unwinnable,
so be careful. In the castle example, some guards may
come out to attack the PCs, while others cluster around
the central keep. Perhaps each individual patrol of guards
around the castle is a trivial-threat encounter, but as they
gather together, they form groups of gradually escalating
threat. Such groups give the PCs a sense of how challenging
their opposition is, so that if a fight against six guards is a
challenge, they won’t try to pick a fight with 30. When the
PCs’ foes amass into an overwhelming force, give the PCs
fair warning and a chance to retreat and try again another
day. Of course, if the PCs come back after the alarm has
been raised, the guards are likely to change their rotations
to better secure the keep.
The most common reason to separate an encounter
into multiple pieces is to set up a combined encounter, like
when an injured foe retreats to gather reinforcements. This
provides the PCs with a choice: do they ignore the fleeing
enemy and focus on the battle in front of them, or do they
split their own forces, weighing the risk of being led into a
dangerous encounter against the chance of stopping later
foes from preparing for their approach? An encounter might
also separate into pieces because of dramatic changes to the
battlefield, such as a collapsing ceiling or a magical wall that
prevents those on each side of the barrier from accessing the
other without spending actions to bypass the obstruction.
TIME PRESSURE
Time pressure adds an extra sense of urgency to any
encounter and can be a great way to make an otherwise
trivial- or low-threat encounter tactically engaging,
satisfying, and memorable. After all, while low- and
trivial-threat encounters have an incredibly low chance of
defeating the PCs, the opposition can usually hold on long
enough to make the PCs spend a few rounds to defeat them
unless the PCs expend more resources than they normally
would on such foes. Time pressure is often related to a
secondary objective in the encounter, though it could be
a countdown directly related to the encounter itself. For
instance, if the ritual will grant a lich its apotheosis in 4
rounds, the heroes need to defeat the lich before then!
1
Gamemastery Basics
49
49
introduction
Gamemastery
Basics
Tools
Subsystems
Variant Rules
NPC Gallery
GLOSSARY
and INDEX
