to progress the plot, and an underlying goal guides you in
deciding what the NPC does if their plan goes awry. It can be
especially helpful to contrast the villain’s goals with those of
the PCs. If a PC wants to establish a trade network, maybe a
villain plans to get rich robbing caravans or merchant ships.
If a PC plans to found churches to a deity, a villain could
worship one of that god’s adversaries. Just like with PCs’
goals, show how the villain’s goal has impacted the world,
even in small ways. Try to find ways the villain can make
a difference even if the PCs are successful against them. A
villain will look ineffective if the PCs foil every single plot or
plan. For instance, the villain might turn a memorable NPC
to their cause, set an institution ablaze, or invade a village.
All of these outcomes can have memorable, long-lasting
effects even if the villain’s ultimate plan fails.
REWARDS
The Core Rulebook explains (on page 507)
three types of concrete rewards covered by the
rules: Hero Points, Experience Points, and
treasure. Experience Points and treasure
are the bedrock of progress in a
campaign, since attaining a higher
level and acquiring magic
items let PCs take on more
challenging adventures.
EXPERIENCE POINTS
In a standard game, Experience Points come
from encounters of low threat or higher, and from
accomplishments. Try to be consistent about what is
worth accomplishment XP and what isn’t, and give out
at least some accomplishment XP every session. If two
PCs pull off the same magnitude of task, they should get
an equal amount of accomplishment XP. That doesn’t
mean you should allow XP “farming,” however. Part
of the assumption of accomplishment XP is that the
accomplishment is novel and the result of something
challenging. If someone got accomplishment XP for
snatching a dragon’s egg from a lair, someone collecting
another egg wouldn’t necessarily get accomplishment XP.
You might find that accomplishment XP doesn’t work
well for your game, especially if you’re running a dungeon
crawl or other game with less interaction with NPCs or
fewer quests. In this case, you can remove accomplishment
XP and use fast advancement speed (800 XP to level up)
to move at the standard advancement speed.
TREASURE
The game’s math is based on PCs looking to find, buy, or
craft items that are the same level as them—this includes
weapons and armor with fundamental runes, and items that
help with the PC’s favorite skills or tactics. A PC who gets
the item at that level will typically be ahead of the monsters,
hazards, and skill DCs briefly, before their challenges start
to catch back up. The guidelines for awarding treasure,
meanwhile, have you give the party items 1 level higher
than the PCs. This means the items found on adventures
are more powerful than those a PC could make (which
are capped at the PC’s level). The treasure assignment is
measured across a level instead of per encounter because
some encounters won’t have treasure, some will have
extra treasure, and some treasure hoards or rewards might
be found outside encounters entirely. If your campaign
structure works better by giving out treasure for individual
encounters—such as some dungeon crawls or sandbox
games—see Treasure by Encounter on page 51.
As you choose treasure, look at the flow of treasure
in the campaign, and see which PCs are ahead and
which are behind. It’s usually best to mix “core items,”
treasure linked to a PC’s main abilities, with treasure
that has unusual, less broadly applicable powers. For
instance, a champion might not purchase plate
armor of the deep, but they will likely wear it
if they find it. These items should always be
useful—a party without a primal spellcaster
won’t have much use for an animal staff.
The number of core items to give out
depends partly on how much the
campaign allows for crafting
and buying items.
•  If there are few limits on
buying items and there’s plenty
of time to craft, make about half
the permanent items you give out core items. The PCs
have plenty of ways to obtain the items they want.
• If purchasing items and obtaining formulas is
somewhat difficult, make about three-fourths of the
permanent items core items. If a PC really wants an
item, they might have to do extra work to get it.
• If there are no magic item shops or other ways to
purchase items and formulas, make all the permanent
items core items. In this case, it might work better
for your game to use Automatic Bonus Progression
(page 196) to eliminate the need for core items.
Selling itemS
The PCs’ ability to sell items plays a big part in their
ability to equip themselves how they want. It’s expected
that a Pathfinder campaign strives for some amount of
verisimilitude—that PCs can’t find a buyer for every item,
especially if they’re selling multiple copies of the same
thing. Players should not have the expectation that they
can sell whatever they want whenever they want. They
might be unable to sell items that wouldn’t be in demand,
have to take a lower percentage, or have trouble selling
items in places without massive wealth.
If you don’t want to deal with that level of detail, you can
choose to make selling items more abstract, allowing the
PCs to sell anything for half Price essentially at any time.
Since this makes it far easier for PCs to outfit themselves
how they want, they might be more powerful.
Gamemastery Guide
38
38
