INTELLIGENT ITEMS
Magic items with a mind of their own have been a hallmark of myth and fantasy for
millennia. When integrated into a campaign, they can become memorable characters in
their own right.
Intelligent items are a special kind of magic item that
straddles the line between treasure and NPC. An
intelligent item might be another type of item as well: it
could be an artifact (like Serithtial on page 112), a cursed
item (page 90), or even a relic (page 94) that grows with
its wielder.
Introducing an intelligent item is an effective
way to subtly alter the party dynamic. An
intelligent item works well when its personality
makes it a natural complement or foil for its
partner: the PC investing, holding, or otherwise
interacting with the item. An intelligent item
that can communicate only with that particular PC is
also a great way to engage players who are a bit quieter,
or those slower to speak in a scene where all the PCs can
talk to a particular NPC. Due to their inherently limited
agency, intelligent items are at less of a risk for stealing
the spotlight than other NPCs who travel along with
the party.
INTELLIGENT ITEM
RULES
Every intelligent item has the intelligent trait. Intelligent
items can’t be crafted by normal means—typically an
accident, a divine act, or a major sacrifice on the part
of the creator is required to grant the item the mental
essence it needs for sentience, and in some rare cases
the spiritual essence it needs to have a soul of its own.
Because of this, intelligent items are always rare or
unique. The normal statistics and rules for wearing
or using an item of its type still apply to an intelligent
item. In addition, intelligent items have a few statistics
other items lack.
ALIGNMENT
An intelligent item always has an alignment trait, just
like any other creature, even if it isn’t fully sapient. Few
intelligent items are capable of growing and changing
their alignment and fundamental nature; most are fixed
at the time of their creation.
PERCEPTION AND SENSES
An intelligent item that has any sense of the world
around them has a Perception modifier. Intelligent items
have only the senses listed within their entry, rather than
the assumed assortment of senses that most creatures
have. If an intelligent item notices something its partner
doesn’t, it might be able to communicate with its partner
and let them know.
COMMUNICATION AND LANGUAGES
Intelligent items almost always have some means of
communication—an easy way to demonstrate an item’s
intelligence! The most common ways are via empathy,
speech, and telepathy. Speech and telepathy function
as they do for any creature, while an empathic
connection allows the item to share only
emotions. Empathic and telepathic connections
are often limited either to the item’s partner or
to a certain distance.
If an intelligent item understands or speaks
any languages, they are listed in parentheses in
its Communication entry. If the item doesn’t have speech
listed, it can only understand the listed languages, not
speak them.
SKILLS
Intelligent items might have skill modifiers for
Intelligence, Wisdom, or Charisma-based skills that fit
their nature.
ABILITY SCORES
Intelligent items have Intelligence, Wisdom, and Charisma
scores, though as inanimate objects, they don’t have
Strength, Dexterity, or Constitution entries.
WILL SAVE
Since they have their own minds, intelligent items might
be subject to mental effects that require a Will save.
ITEM AGENCY
As a default, intelligent items have control over all their
own magic, meaning an intelligent magic weapon could
deny the effects of its fundamental and property runes
if it so chose, and intelligent items perform their own
activations when they wish. Intelligent items can typically
use 3 actions per turn, acting on their partner’s turn. These
actions don’t count toward their partner’s 3 actions. They
have a reaction if any of their activations requires one.
Beyond denying magic effects and communicating
their displeasure, intelligent items can usually influence or
hinder their partners only in subtle ways. If the item is a
weapon or tool necessary for an action (like thieves’ tools),
it can at least be disruptive enough to make its partner take
a –2 circumstance penalty to associated checks, much as if
the partner were using an improvised weapon or tool. If
an intelligent item can have a greater effect, such as seizing
control of its partner’s body for a time, the intelligent
item’s entry includes those abilities.
Gamemastery Guide
88
88
