Afflictions strike creatures with potent and often escalating
results. This section presents a variety of curses, diseases,
and drugs for use in your game. A broad sampling of
poisons can be found beginning on page 550 of the Core
Rulebook, and the rules for afflictions start on 457.
Depending on the tone of the campaign, the GM might
want to roll secret saving throws for PCs affected by an
affliction. This is particularly effective when the affliction
is an element within a survival or horror game, or when
it’s part of a mystery.
CURSES
A curse is a manifestation of potent ill will. Curses
typically have a single effect that takes place upon a failed
saving throw and lasts a specified amount of time, or can
be removed only by certain actions a character must
perform or conditions they must meet. Rarely, curses will
have stages; these follow the rules for afflictions.
Curses may come from a malicious action, such as a
lich’s Paralyzing Touch or a spell from an evil spellcaster.
Guardians of a tomb or treasure might ward their charge
with a curse as protection against thieves. In some rare
cases, a curse might manifest as a response to a terrible act,
such as a massacre. When using a curse in your game, assign
the curse to an item, location, situation, or similar element.
Then, decide on a trigger for the curse—such as a creature
attempting to steal a warded book, destroy a work of art, or
slay a specific creature. A curse can even be tied to a specific
location, in which case it functions as a simple hazard. Once
that trigger occurs, the curse affects the triggering creature
or creatures. Each affected creature must attempt a saving
throw against the curse; if they fail, they are subject to the
effects specified in the curse’s Effect entry.
CURSE OF NIGHTMARES
CURSE 2
CURSE
ILLUSION
MAGICAL
MENTAL
This curse plagues you with terrible nightmares whenever you
sleep, preventing you from resting properly.
Saving Throw DC 16 Will; Effect You must rest for 12 hours
instead of 8 to avoid becoming fatigued and can’t gain any
benefits from resting or long‑term rest. You can still make
your daily preparations.
THEFT OF THOUGHT
CURSE 3
CURSE
ENCHANTMENT
MAGICAL
MENTAL
This curse protects a single book and activates against any
creature who Steals it.
Saving Throw DC 18 Will; Effect You begin to lose details from
your memories, as well as a portion of your procedural
memory. After being cursed, the first time you attempt a
check using a skill in which you are trained or better, your
proficiency rank in the skill used decreases by one rank for
as long as you are cursed.
SLAYER’S HAUNT
CURSE 4
CURSE
ILLUSION
MAGICAL
VISUAL
You are haunted by all those you have killed.
Saving Throw DC 19 Will; Effect You see all creatures around
you as those you have slain, still bearing their wounds.
You can’t identify, Recall Knowledge about, or otherwise
interact with these creatures in any way that involves
seeing their true form without first succeeding at a Will
save against the curse’s DC to see through the illusion.
On a critical failure for such a Will save, you become
frightened 1.
COWARD’S ROOTS
CURSE 5
CURSE
ENCHANTMENT
FEAR
MAGICAL
MENTAL
You find all courage stolen from your heart. When faced
with something frightening, you flee in terror or stand
frozen in place.
Saving Throw DC 20 Will; Effect At the start of your turn, if
you are frightened, you become your choice of immobilized
or fleeing until the end of that turn.
CURSE OF THE RAVENOUS
CURSE 5
CURSE
MAGICAL
TRANSMUTATION
This hideous curse kills through constant hunger. You become
gaunt and repeatedly gnash your teeth.
Saving Throw DC 20 Fortitude; Effect No matter how much
you eat, you aren’t satiated. After 1 day, you begin starving
(Core Rulebook 500). Each week, you receive a new saving
throw against the curse.
WIZARD’S WARD
CURSE 6
ABJURATION
CURSE
MAGICAL
A wizard’s ward is placed upon a single book, usually a
spellbook. If you damage the book, you must attempt a save
against the curse’s effect.
Saving Throw DC 22 Will; Effect You take 5d6 damage of the
same damage type as the damage you dealt to the book,
and the damage can’t be healed as long as the curse lasts.
Repairing the book, including replacing any missing text,
ends this curse.
AFFLICTIONS
Wherever there is life, there are insidious perils that threaten the health and well-being
of living creatures. Some of these afflictions, including many diseases, are inherent to the
natural world. Others, such as drugs, are crafted by people the world over for recreational,
unscrupulous, or other uses. And some—curses being the most notorious—exist solely to
cause harm to others.
Gamemastery Guide
116
116
