running over rooftops. Ambushes in apparently safe social
settings. Assassination attempts.
Military aDventure
Number of Sessions 2–3
Exploration Scenes 1 long march and 2–3 short marches, or a
tour of the defenses for a siege; 2–3 trapped enemy campsites
and secret spy redoubts
Combat Encounters 4 low, 4 moderate, 1 severe. Most combat
encounters should be made up of 2–4 foes, typically
humanoid soldiers with a range of capabilities.
Roleplaying Encounters 1–2 skill challenges to convince neutral
parties to become allies or raise troops’ morale
Encounter Tropes Fortified battlegrounds, with moats, walls,
defensive towers, and siege weapons. Victory conditions that
are goal or deadline oriented—holding a gate for 10 minutes
while reserves rush to defend it, setting fire to an enemy
catapult, rescuing prisoners, and so on.
Mystery
Number of Sessions 2–3
Exploration Scenes 2–3 trapped rooms, concealed hideouts, or
other tests of skill; 2 puzzles or investigations
Combat Encounters 2 trivial, 4 low, 6 moderate, 6 severe.
Solving the mystery uncovers an advantage over the most
powerful foe.
Roleplaying Encounters 1 battles of wits, 1 conversation with
a bizarre creature, 1 opportunity to gather information and
rumors, 1 gathering to reveal the answer to the mystery
Encounter Tropes
Encounters
come
naturally
during
investigations or upon discovering some element of the
mystery. Multiple clues can send PCs to the same locations;
if the mystery stalls, some creature that doesn’t want the PCs
to solve the mystery can attack to move the plot forward.
Planar aDventure
Number of Sessions 6–8
Exploration Scenes 3–4 long voyages through different planes,
often by gate, spells, or planar vessel, punctuated by combat;
1–2 scouting a demiplane, planar city or fortress, or other
planar stronghold
Combat Encounters 12 moderate, 12 severe. Avoid trivial- and
low-threat encounters, except as set dressing to introduce a
new plane.
Roleplaying Encounters 6 conversations with bizarre creatures,
including some with alien ways of thinking; 2 opportunities
to gather information and rumors
Encounter Tropes Fights showcasing otherworldly environs—
on the sides of glaciers, in limitless oceans, on chunks of
rock floating along rivers of lava, atop bottomless pits, or
on the chains of 100-foot-tall gates.
roMantiC aDventure
Number of Sessions 4–6
Gamemastery Guide
42
42
