announcing their results. While they roll their saves, roll
damage or other variable effects. Then, announce the DC.
Say, “who critically succeeded?” “who succeeded?” and so
on down the line, so you only have to share the results
for each category once. You can choose not to announce
the DC if you want and ask for results by multiples of 10
instead, but it typically takes longer, and it’s still possible
that the players can determine or estimate the DC anyway.
ENEMY TACTICS
As noted on page 493 of the Core Rulebook, enemies don’t
need to make perfect decisions. It’s usually better to make
a decision quickly than to pick the perfect enemy tactic.
The chaos of combat, desperation, or ego could all cause
a villain to make a poor decision, and that’s something
you can play up if you realize they’ve done so, acting
out the foe’s response to their own folly, or chiding them
through the sarcastic remark of one of their allies.
INITIATIVE
The rules for rolling initiative can be found on page 468 of
the Core Rulebook, and the GM guidelines on 498. Below
you’ll find specifics on how to run certain types of initiative
or deal with problems. These are guidelines, and you might
prefer to execute initiative in a different way at your table.
When do you ask players to roll initiative? In most
cases, it’s pretty simple: you call for the roll as soon as
one participant intends to attack (or issue a challenge,
draw a weapon, cast a preparatory spell, start a social
encounter such as a debate, or otherwise begin to use an
action that their foes can’t help but notice). A player will
tell you if their character intends to start a conflict, and
you’ll determine when the actions of NPCs and other
creatures initiate combat. Occasionally, two sides might
stumble across one another. In this case, there’s not much
time to decide, but you should still ask if anyone intends
to attack. If the PCs and NPCs alike just want to talk or
negotiate, there is no reason to roll initiative only to drop
out of combat immediately!
INITIATIVE AND STEALTH
When one or both sides of an impending battle are being
stealthy, you’ll need to deal with the impacts of Stealth on
the start of the encounter. Anyone who’s Avoiding Notice
should attempt a Stealth check for their initiative. All
the normal bonuses and penalties apply, including any
bonus for having cover. You can give them the option to
roll Perception instead, but if they do they forsake their
Stealth and are definitely going to be detected.
To determine whether someone is undetected by other
participants in the encounter, you still compare their
Stealth check for initiative to the Perception DC of their
enemies. They’re undetected by anyone whose DC they
meet or exceed. So what do you do if someone rolls
better than everyone else on initiative, but all their foes
beat their Perception DC? Well, all the enemies are
undetected, but not unnoticed. That means the participant
who rolled high still knows someone is around, and can
start moving about, Seeking, and otherwise preparing to
fight. The characters Avoiding Notice still have a significant
advantage, since that character needs to spend actions and
attempt additional checks in order to find them.
What if both sides are sneaking about? They might just
sneak past each other entirely, or they might suddenly run
into one another if they’re heading into the same location.
1
Gamemastery Basics
1111
introduction
Gamemastery
Basics
Tools
Subsystems
Variant Rules
NPC Gallery
GLOSSARY
and INDEX
