DESIGNING NPCS
Creatures that are meant to cleave closely to character
classes or intended to represent people rather than
monsters are NPCs. They might face more scrutiny
around their mechanics than creatures, because a player
can more directly compare their rogue to an NPC who
acts like a rogue. That doesn’t mean you have to build
an NPC exactly like a PC, though.
You can build NPCs just like you would any other
creatures. If an NPC should work like they have a class,
use the class features and feats of a suitable class to pick
abilities, and look at both the class’s proficiencies and
ability modifiers to determine how strong the NPC’s
statistics should be. Class Road Maps on page 73 has
prebuilt road maps for the Core Rulebook classes to get
you started.
If the NPC isn’t meant to work like they have a class
(a baker, for example), instead look at the NPC Gallery
on pages 202–249. Compare your NPC to the existing
ones to determine the NPC’s level, and look for abilities
that are similar to what yours should have. You can
also create new abilities as needed to get the NPC’s
interactions with the PCs to express their theme and
role in the story. These NPCs can be level –1 or level
0. Their capabilities are below those of PCs, and they
should typically not use any class features or feats from
PC classes. Creatures of these levels tend to be extremely
simple, and usually you can just take one from the NPC
Gallery and reskin it.
It’s highly recommended that you select NPC skills
using proficiency ranks as you would a PC, though
you don’t need to be precise about the number of skill
increases you give the NPC. You can give them earlier
access to expert, master, or legendary proficiency if
they’re a skill-based NPC, and better proficiency in
narrow areas of expertise, like Engineering Lore for a
tinker NPC.
NON-COMBAT LEVEL
An NPC’s level should represent their combat prowess.
A common person might not be a combat threat, even if
they’re important or highly skilled, and they consequently
have a low level. However, that doesn’t mean they can’t
present a challenge in other types of encounters. This is
represented by a non-combat level, and tends to be specific
to their area of expertise. For example, the barrister on
page 232 of the NPC Gallery is a 4th-level creature in an
encounter related to legal matters.
This can go the other way as well, such as with a
powerful combat creature that’s not suited to social
settings. This is usually the case with creatures untrained
in mental skills. You can improvise this as you run the
game, or you can plan ahead if you have something
particular in mind.
Building an NPC’s non-combat level is pretty simple.
Choose the level you want the NPC to be for the type of
challenge you have in mind, and use the skill numbers
for that level—typically high or even extreme. Some
challenges, such as social challenges, require the creature
to have a high Perception and Will DC, so in those cases,
you should increase those values as well. These should
be set at the moderate or high values for the non-combat
level, usually, depending on how adept you want the NPC
to be.
The Experience Points gained for besting an NPC
depend on how the party overcame them, because XP
comes from overcoming a specific challenge. If the
PCs defeat the NPC in a non-combat setting of the
NPC’s specialty, the party gets XP based on the NPC’s
non-combat level. If they just beat the NPC up, the XP
would be based on the NPC’s creature level. Quite often,
that means 0 XP and failure at the PCs’ objective; for
instance, during a baking contest, if the PCs murder the
other baker, not only would they be disqualified, but they
would likely be apprehended for their crime.
PC-STYLE BUILD
If you do choose to build an NPC fully using the PC
rules, your NPC should generally end up being an
appropriate challenge as a creature of their level. They
will likely have lower statistics in some areas than if
you had built them using the creature rules, but more
options due to their full complement of feats and class
features. This is best saved for important, recurring
NPCs, especially if they’re meant to engage in social or
exploration endeavors rather than just battles.
There are still some considerations and shortcuts that
can expedite the process while ensuring the NPC works
as you intend.
• The creature’s treasure should follow the Treasure
for New Characters rules on page 510 of the Core
Rulebook. You’ll need to account for this in your
campaign’s overall treasure. You might even want
to give the NPC a higher-level item appropriate as a
treasure allotment for the level.
• You can expedite ability score generation by
making the starting ability modifiers add up to
+9, with no more than one modifier at +4 (and
typically no more than one negative modifier). You
can skip adding a background if you do this, but
you might want to give the creature two skills,
which includes one Lore skill, to represent the skills
granted by a background.
• It’s not necessary to assign every skill feat, particularly
for a higher-level NPC. You can just pick the most
emblematic ones and gloss over the rest.
• For
general
feats,
Incredible
Initiative
and
Toughness make good choices.
• Most of the guidelines about choosing spells still
apply, though you might want a few more utility
spells that deal with non-combat challenges,
particularly in low-level slots.
Gamemastery Guide
72
72
