RUNNING A CHASE
When running a chase, narrate the scene and give vivid
descriptions of the obstacles the PCs face, rather than
just reading off a list of skills and immediately having
the players start rolling dice and making checks. A chase
is a framework for roleplaying, not just a dice game.
Encourage the PCs to describe what they’re doing,
and how they’re helping their comrades overcome
each obstacle.
Typically, it’s best to tell the players the DCs of the
default options, so they can make informed decisions.
At the least, you should indicate the relative difficulty
of the clear paths. The PCs are adventurers, so they’re
experienced at assessing which path is going to be easier
or harder.
Try to make it feel like the PCs are really part of
a chase scene, like in a movie. As each side makes
progress, describe how they pull ahead or close the
gap. PCs far from their foes might hear shouts in the
distance. As they get closer, they catch glimpses, and
then finally see their quarry in full view once they’re on
the enemies’ heels. Think about how the events of the
chase affect the environment, as well. For instance, if a
kaiju is chasing after the PCs, after the PCs overcome an
obstacle consisting of a thick copse of trees, you could
describe how the kaiju flattens the trees beneath its feet
as it stomps after them.
VISUAL AIDS
It can help your players visualize the chase to use a series
of cards or a rough map (such as a large-scale city map
rather than a 5-foot grid) to show locations. Use one
miniature or token to represent each side of the chase.
You might place cards with obstacle names on them face
down, revealing them as PCs reach them, and letting a PC
peek at an upcoming card if they scout it from a distance.
IF THE PCS GET STUCK
Sometimes despite their best efforts, an obstacle will stymie
the PCs over and over again. In most cases, after 3 rounds
of the PCs struggling with an obstacle that requires the
standard number of Chase Points, it’s a good idea to just say
they found another way around it. If the obstacle requires
more or fewer Chase Points, you can change the number of
rounds before letting them get past it. If presenting another
way around the obstacle just doesn’t make sense, such as
if a spherical barrier completely blocks the PCs, you might
introduce an NPC or other outside force that can help
them bypass it, but at a high cost.
SAMPLE OBSTACLES
You can use the following obstacles in your chases, which
are organized by environment. The name is followed by the
level of group they’re best suited for, and many include both
a basic version for lower levels and a higher-level version.
Gamemastery Guide
158
158
