RELIC GIFTS
Gifts are divided up into three tiers. Minor gifts grant useful,
often scaling abilities and are available early in a character’s
career. Major gifts define a relic, determining its true purpose
and granting powerful abilities. Grand gifts are the pinnacle
of power, and most relics never have more than one.
The more gifts there are of one aspect, the more the
relic reflects that aspect, and the more influence the aspect
has on the character who wields it. An item with multiple
shadow gifts might begin to lose its color. With four or
five, the character that wields it might take on an ashen
tone and the relic might become entirely made of shadow.
GIFT SAVES AND SPELL ATTACK ROLLS
Many gifts allow for a saving throw or have other abilities
that change as the relic goes up in level. The DC for any
saving throw called for by a gift is its owner’s class DC or
spell DC. The spell attack modifier of a gift is 10 lower than
that DC. A relic’s counteract modifier is equal to its owner’s
counteract modifier.
AIR GIFTS
DEADLY SPARK
MINOR GIFT
AIR
ELECTRICITY
EVOCATION
Aspect air
Activate [two-actions] command, Interact; Effect A spark flashes out
from the relic toward a creature within 20 feet. This spark
deals 1d12 electricity damage (basic Reflex save). The
damage increases by 1d12 at 6th level and by another 1d12
every 4 levels thereafter.
FEATHER STEPS
MINOR GIFT
AIR
TRANSMUTATION
Aspect air; Prerequisites The relic is a worn item.
While wearing the relic, you do not trigger traps that use weight
or pressure plates as a trigger. Also, whenever you fall, you
reduce the falling damage by the level of the relic. If this would
reduce the falling damage to 0, you land on your feet and are
not prone. The relic grants a +1 item bonus to Athletics checks
made to Jump, increasing to +2 at 9th level and +3 at 17th level.
WIND BARRIER
MINOR GIFT
ABJURATION
AIR
Aspect air
Activate [one-action] command; Effect An invisible barrier of air deflects
ranged attacks, granting you a +2 circumstance bonus to
AC against ranged attacks until the beginning of your next
turn. At 13th level, this increases to a +3 circumstance
bonus to AC against ranged attacks.
LIGHTNING STORM
MAJOR GIFT
AIR
ELECTRICITY
EVOCATION
Aspect air
Activate [two-actions] command; Effect The relic surrounds you with a
storm of wind, rain, and lightning in a 30-foot emanation.
This storm is difficult terrain for creatures other than you.
Any creature other than you that enters or starts its turn
in the storm takes 1d12 electricity damage, with a basic
Reflex save (2d12 damage at 15th level). You can Sustain
this Activation up to 1 minute.
PROPELLING WINDS
MAJOR GIFT
AIR
TRANSMUTATION
Aspect air
Activate [two-actions] command, Interact; Frequency once per hour;
Effect The relic casts fly targeting you.
LIVING STORM
GRAND GIFT
AIR
ELECTRICITY
EVOCATION
Aspect air
The relic grants you a fly Speed equal to your Speed or 60 feet,
whichever is greater. In addition, a creature that Strikes you
with a melee attack takes 5 electricity damage, and you can
cast 5th-level lightning bolt as an innate spell.
BEAST GIFTS
BEAST SENSES
MINOR GIFT
TRANSMUTATION
Aspect beast; Prerequisites The relic is a worn item.
The relic grants you an animal’s acute senses as long as you
wear it. You gain low-light vision. If you already have low-light
vision, you instead gain darkvision. At 10th level, the relic
grants you imprecise scent with a range of 10 feet.
CALL OF THE WILD
MINOR GIFT
TRANSMUTATION
Aspect beast
Activate [two-actions] command, Interact; Frequency once per day; Effect
Your relic summons a creature to fight at your side, casting
summon animal with a level of half the item’s level rounded up.
You can Sustain this Activation as you would the spell.
PLAYER-DRIVEN RELICS
Though these rules assume you as the GM are providing relic
gifts as a form of treasure with input from the players, you can
instead have the players make all the decisions for their relics.
Encourage the players to choose different styles of items and
aspects to match their characters’ themes, rather than simply
choosing the most powerful combination of options. Have
players describe how their relic gets more powerful in the
story. What acts from previous sessions lent the relic power?
What special meditations or practices did they perform to
unlock new gifts? How does it feel to have the relic grow?
As the item and the character level up, the player
chooses which gifts the item gets from the list as a part of
character advancement. You still adjust treasure as normal
for incorporating relics into your game. In fact, if the player
tries to optimize the combinations, they will likely be more
powerful than under the standard method.
Gamemastery Guide
96
96
