creatures like animals—back down from a battle they’re
obviously losing. This normally means foes fleeing at
a certain point, potentially ending the encounter, but if
the PCs need to capture those opponents, it could add a
secondary objective and split their focus. Look at how
differences in morale between participants impact the fight.
For instance, after the necromancer’s living allies surrender
to the PCs, she might activate a latent magic she implanted
within them, killing them and merging their bodies into an
enormous undead abomination. An enemy’s morale could
even change the encounter from combat to social, as the PCs
enter negotiations over a surrender or try to convince their
foes of the errors of their ways.
DYNAMIC ENCOUNTERS
While you can certainly create enjoyable encounters by
placing a group of opponents in a square room with little
else, you have numerous tools to create encounters that are
more interactive and dynamic. These tools can challenge
your players to invent new strategies, inspire interesting
character decisions, and make your setting richer.
No encounter needs to use all of the elements presented
here, and not all encounters need more than one or two. The
more complex a dynamic encounter is, the longer it takes to
run and the more demanding it is. In general, these tools are
perfectly suited for boss encounters, for memorable foes,
and as a spice to add throughout your campaign however
often works best for you and your players.
HAZARDS IN COMBAT
In isolated encounters where the PCs have plenty of time to
recover from hazards’ effects, simple hazards can feel more
like speed bumps than true challenges. But when combined
with other threats, even simple hazards can prove perilous.
A noisy explosion can draw attention, allowing foes to
burst through the door for a dramatic start to the encounter.
Simple hazards can also be an active part of an encounter,
particularly if the foes know how to avoid triggering them.
As their name suggests, complex hazards are a more
powerful tool for encounters. Because they continue to act,
they are an ongoing presence in the fight. When combined
with hostile creatures, complex hazards offer the PCs
plenty of choices for what they want to do next. This is
particularly true if foes benefit from the hazard. Should
the PCs first disable the array of pipes spewing magical fire
into the room, or should they prioritize the fire elemental
growing stronger with exposure to the inferno? There’s no
right answer, and the PCs’ choices have a clear impact on
the obstacles they face. Hazards in combat shine when they
give the PCs ways to contribute meaningfully other than
dealing damage to a creature. Interesting actions to disable
a hazard are a fun way to give several PCs something fresh
and different to do rather than piling on damage.
EVOLVING BATTLEFIELDS
While some battlefields are relatively static, allowing the
PCs and foes to clobber each other until one side wins,
complex or evolving battlefields can lead to far more
memorable encounters. One of the most straightforward
ways to create an evolving battlefield is with dynamic
environmental features. Maybe the floating platforms that
make up the room’s floor shuffle around on their own
turn each round, or various points teleport creatures to
different locations—possibly between two rooms where
separate battles take place simultaneously. These dynamic
features have some overlap with complex hazards, though
they don’t tend to be an opposition or obstacle specifically
threatening the PCs.
Similarly, a third party in the encounter, perhaps a
rampaging monster or a restless spirit, could pose a danger
to both sides but potentially benefit either. For instance,
perhaps the PCs or their foes could harness this third party
as a dangerous but powerful ally with a successful skill
check of some kind or by making a risky bargain.
Sometimes the evolving battlefield is more of a state
change, or series of state changes, and less of a constant
presence. For instance, defeating a ritualist and ending his
ritual could cause the foes to lose a powerful beneficial effect
but unleash a demon that crawled through the remains of
the botched ritual, or cause part of the room to collapse
from the magical backlash. Major physical changes to the
environment, like such a collapse, portions of the room
rising or falling, or water beginning to rush in and fill the
room, can force the PCs to rethink their plans to handle the
new situation. Sometimes the evolving battlefield is more
of an unexpected plot twist that occurs in the middle of
the encounter. Perhaps the evil tyrant reveals that they were
a dragon all along, or reinforcements arrive for whichever
side was outmatched. Whatever you choose, make sure
it changes things up and makes the encounter feel more
dynamic and different. For instance, raising up a portion of
the battlefield that isn’t particularly relevant when neither
the PCs nor their foes are likely to care is less interesting
than raising up the pedestal holding the jewel the PCs and
their enemies are trying to recover.
QUICK ADVENTURE GROUPS
If you want an easy framework for building an encounter,
you can use one of the following basic structures and slot in
monsters and NPCs.
• Boss and Lackeys (120 XP): One creature of party level +
2, four creatures of party level – 4
• Boss and Lieutenant (120 XP): One creature of party level +
2, one creature of party level
• Elite Enemies (120 XP): Three creatures of party level
• Lieutenant and Lackeys (80 XP): One creature of party
level, four creatures of party level – 4
• Mated Pair (80 XP): Two creatures of party level
• Troop (80 XP): One creature of party level, two creatures
of party level – 2
• Mook Squad (60 XP): Six creatures of party level – 4
Gamemastery Guide
48
48
