TIME TRAITS
Time flows differently on many planes.
Normal: Time passes the same way it does on the Material
Plane. One hour on a plane with normal time equals 1 hour
on the Material Plane.
Erratic: Time slows down and speeds up, so an individual
may lose or gain time as they move between planes. When a
creature moves from a plane with erratic time to one with
normal time, roll a DC 11 flat check. Creatures that leave
an erratic time plane together share the same result.
Success Time passed normally on the erratic time plane.
Failure For each hour spent on the erratic time plane, 1 day
passed on the normal time plane.
Critical Failure For each round spent on the erratic time plane,
1 day passed on the normal time plane.
Flowing: The flow of time is consistently faster or slower.
A creature may travel to one of these planes, spend a year
there, and find that only an hour passed on the Material
Plane; alternatively, they might spend a minute on this
plane and find out an hour passed on the Material Plane.
Timeless: Time still passes, but the effects of time are
diminished. Creatures on these planes don’t feel hunger,
thirst, or the effects of aging or natural healing. The effects
of poison, diseases, and other kinds of healing may also
be diminished on certain timeless planes. Spell energy and
other effects still dissipate, so the durations of spells and
other effects function as normal. The danger of this trait
is that when a creature leaves a timeless plane and enters a
plane with another time trait, the effects of hunger, thirst,
aging, and other effects slowed or arrested by the timeless
trait occur retroactively in the instant of transition, possibly
causing the creature to immediately starve or die of old age.
MORPHIC TRAITS
This trait describes how easily the physical nature of the
plane can be changed. The Material Plane is the norm, but
other planes can warp through the plane’s own sentient
designs or be manipulated by extremely powerful creatures.
Normal: Objects remain where they are (and what they
are) unless affected by physical force or magic. Creatures
can change the immediate environment as a result of
tangible effort, such as by digging a hole.
Metamorphic: Things change by means other than
physical force or magic. Sometimes spells have morphic
effects. Other times, the plane’s nature is under the control
of a deity or power, or the plane simply changes at random.
Sentient: The plane changes based on its own whims.
Static: Visitors can’t affect living residents of the plane or
objects the denizens carry in any way. Any spells that would
affect those on the plane have no effect unless the static trait
is somehow removed or suppressed.
PLANAR ESSENCE TRAITS
Planar essence traits describe a plane’s fundamental
nature. For example, many of the Inner Sphere’s planes are
infused with an element or energy, each of which affects
magic on those planes, and the Shadow Plane is awash
with shadow. Outer Planes are fundamentally made up
of quintessence, a philosophically aligned material with
infinite potential for shape and state that conforms to
powerful and prevailing beliefs.
Air: Planes with this trait consist mostly of open spaces
and air of various levels of turbulence, though they also
contain rare islands of floating stone and other elements and
energies. Air planes usually have breathable atmospheres,
though they may include clouds of acidic or toxic gas.
Air magic is enhanced, and earth magic is impeded. Earth
creatures often find themselves at a disadvantage within air
planes, which tend to at least make them uncomfortable, as
there is little solid ground for them to gain their bearings.
Earth: These planes are mostly solid. Travelers arriving
upon an earth plane risk suffocation if they don’t reach a
cavern or some other air pocket within the plane’s solid
matter. Creatures who can’t burrow are entombed in the
plane’s substance and must attempt to dig their way toward
an air pocket. Earth magic is enhanced, and air magic is
impeded. Air creatures are ill at ease, as they rarely have the
space to move freely through even the most lofty warrens.
Fire: Planes with this trait are composed of flames
that continually burn with no fuel source. Fire planes are
extremely hostile to non‑fire creatures.
Unprotected wood, paper, cloth, and other flammable
materials catch fire almost immediately, and creatures
wearing unprotected flammable clothing catch fire, typically
taking 1d6 persistent fire damage. Extraplanar creatures
take moderate environmental fire damage at the end of
each round (sometimes minor environmental damage in
safer areas, or major or massive damage in even more fiery
areas). Fire magic is enhanced, and cold and water magic
are impeded. Water creatures are extremely uncomfortable
on a fire plane, and any natural resistance they have against
fire doesn’t function against this environmental fire damage.
Water: These planes are mostly liquid. Visitors who can’t
breathe water or reach an air pocket likely drown. Water
magic is enhanced, and fire magic is impeded. Creatures
with a weakness to water take damage equal to double
their weakness at the end of each round.
Negative: Planes with this trait are vast, empty reaches
that suck the life from the living. They tend to be lonely,
haunted planes, drained of color and filled with winds
carrying the moans of those who died within them. At the
end of each round, a living creature takes at least minor
negative environmental damage. In the strongest areas of
a negative plane, they could take moderate or even major
negative damage at the end of each round. This damage
has the death trait, and if a living creature is reduced to 0
Hit Points by this negative damage and killed, it crumbles
into ash and can become a wraith (Bestiary 335). Negative
magic is enhanced, and positive magic is impeded.
Positive: These planes are awash with life energy.
Colors are brighter, fires are hotter, noises are louder, and
sensations are more intense. At the end of each round, an
2
Tools
137
137
introduction
Gamemastery
Basics
Tools
Subsystems
Variant Rules
NPC Gallery
GLOSSARY
and INDEX
