Victory Points (or VP) are a powerful tool in your GM
arsenal, as they allow you to track the PCs’ progress
using a subsystem to go beyond the results of a single
check. Victory Points are versatile; you could track and
resolve them within a single encounter, or you could
collect them over the course of an entire campaign to
determine the ending of the story.
NAMING YOUR VICTORY
POINTS
It can be fun to rename your Victory Points,
to better reflect the subsystem they track.
The term “Victory Points” is
unspecific, so you can create
a name for your Victory
Points that fits the theme
of your adventure and helps
the players feel more like they
are taking part in the type
of activity your subsystem
represents. Examples of renamed
VPs include Influence Points (page 151),
Infiltration Points (page 160), Research
Points (page 154), and Reputation Points
(page 164). The name should be representative, and
the PCs should understand what it refers to. You can leave
off the word “Points” if you prefer, though this section often
retains it while describing how Victory Points can be used.
VICTORY POINT
SUBSYSTEM
STRUCTURES
There are a few common structures for tracking Victory
Points that you might use for your new subsystem.
You could come up with a structure based off one of
the subsystems below, or you could create your own
completely different structure if none of them match
the way you’re running your game. The most important
thing is to consider how the PCs or their opposition gain
or lose various forms of Victory Points.
ACCUMULATING VICTORY POINTS
The most common structure is to accumulate Victory
Points toward a total, either stopping after reaching a
success threshold or collecting as many Victory Points
as possible in a given time frame and then measuring
the results against various thresholds. The influence
subsystem on page 151 is a great example of this
VICTORY POINTS
You’ll often find that your games could use a way to track progress toward a goal so
that you don’t have to just keep everything in your head. This section explains how to
build your own subsystems for tracking success via Victory Points. Many other subsystems
throughout the chapter use these as well, though often by a different name.
structure in action: each PC has a certain number of
chances to influence various NPCs, and after reaching a
particular threshold of Victory Points with an NPC, the
PCs have convinced that NPC.
In a variation of this structure, the PCs’ adversaries
can also accumulate Victory Points, giving the PCs
a moving target—either to reach the goal before the
adversary or to have more Victory Points than the
adversary at the end of a given time frame. This is
a great structure for you to use in a situation where
the PCs face opposition rather than having the
PCs accumulate Victory Points while
adversaries decrease the total, since it’s
dynamic and less at risk of resulting
in a stalemate.
You can track a subsystem at a
larger scale, like over the course
of an adventure or campaign,
by granting the PCs Victory
Points for achieving difficult
goals or making particular
decisions.
Such
subsystems
usually ask the PCs to compare their
accumulated Victory Points against
several ranked tiers that each having
varying results on the story. Typically these results
become more positive for the PCs as they acquire more
Victory Points, but sometimes succeeding too fully
could have unintended consequences, like convincing
the workers to support a rebellion so thoroughly that it
riles up a mob. If you’re making your own subsystem,
you might not define these ranks in full, but just use
your best guess at the end.
AccumulAting Rolls
In cases where the PCs need to make checks to gain
Victory Points, the amount they get for the degrees of
success is up to you. The default scale detailed below
works in most cases.
Critical Success The PCs gain 2 Victory Points.
Success The PCs gain 1 Victory Point.
Critical Failure The PCs lose 1 Victory Point.
This means that the result of a PC’s check usually
results in the party gaining either 1 or no Victory Points.
However, specialized PCs have a solid chance of earning
the party 2 Victory Points, and hare-brained schemes
have a fair chance of losing the PCs 1 Victory Point.
Gamemastery Guide
148
148
