obstAcles in PlAy
On a character’s turn, the character describes what
they do to get past the obstacle. They then attempt any
required check (or perform the required action, if their
choice doesn’t require a check). The result of the check
determines how many Infiltration Points the character
gains toward overcoming that obstacle—or whether they
instead raise suspicions and accrue Awareness Points!
Critical Success The PC gains 2 Infiltration Points.
Success The PC gains 1 Infiltration Point.
Failure The PCs accrue 1 Awareness Point.
Critical Failure The PCs accrue 2 Awareness Points.
If the character’s actions automatically help without
requiring a check, like using a spell, they usually gain 1 IP,
but you can award 2 for particularly helpful actions.
Sometimes a PC might become stuck on an individual
obstacle. Some opportunities (page 162) allow PCs to
spend their turn helping others overcome a tricky obstacle.
PAcing
The number of obstacles to require the PCs to overcome
for an objective depends partly on the complexity of
the infiltration. For shorter infiltrations, use fewer and
lower-IP obstacles; for a longer, more complex heist,
you can add more obstacles with greater complexity.
Also, bear in mind how many checks the PCs will need
to attempt to complete their obstacles. An objective
with mostly low-IP group obstacles will move quickly
because only a few rolls are required, compared to one
with mostly individual obstacles that each PC needs to
roll separately for.
sAmPle obstAcles
While you’ll want to create custom obstacles to suit the
details of your infiltration, the following examples can be
used directly in many infiltrations, or as inspiration for
your own creations. You can also use the sample chase
obstacles on page 159 as starting points.
GUARD POST
OBSTACLE
Infiltration Points 2 (individual); Overcome standard, hard, or
very hard Deception, Diplomacy, or Stealth
Guards cluster at a checkpoint, alert for unusual activity.
LOCKED DOOR
OBSTACLE
Infiltration Points 1 (group); Overcome hard or very hard
Athletics or Thievery
A locked door separates the heroes from their target.
TRAP
OBSTACLE
Infiltration Points 3 (group); Overcome hard or very hard Thievery
A trap bars the characters’ passage. This obstacle follows the
normal degrees of success for an obstacle, with the following
modification for critical failure.
Critical Failure The PCs accrue 2 AP as normal, and the PC
who critically fails the Thievery check also triggers the trap.
AWARENESS POINTS
The trick of any infiltration is to get it done before anyone
notices. Awareness Points measure the opposition’s
awareness of the PCs’ efforts, helping you keep the pressure
on and ramp up the urgency. While Infiltration Points are
specific to a given obstacle, Awareness Points are a single
pool spanning the entire infiltration and all participants.
Awareness Points increase in three different ways.
When a PC fails a check to overcome an obstacle, they
incur 1 Awareness Point (or 2 on a critical failure).
Other failed checks during the infiltration typically
don’t increase the Awareness Point total unless the
failure would reasonably cause a disruption. Awareness
Points also increase by 1 at the end of each round of
the infiltration, as the passage of time makes it more
likely that the PCs will be discovered. Finally, the PCs
earn Awareness Points whenever their activities are
disruptive enough to draw attention to the infiltration,
subject to GM discretion.
The effects of Awareness Points occur when the PCs
reach certain thresholds. The specific effects and thresholds
are up to you and your story, but typically for every 5 AP
the PCs accrue, the challenges become harder, and if the
PCs accrue enough Awareness Points (usually equal to
twice the number of Infiltration Points necessary for the
party as a whole to overcome all necessary obstacles), the
infiltration fails.
Each threshold should have an effect. It might increase
the DCs for obstacles, introduce a complication, spark
a combat encounter, or have other effects. Reaching
the highest tier of Awareness Points means that the PCs
fail, but that doesn’t have to be the end of the story!
Failed infiltrations are an opportunity to introduce new
challenges and move the story forward in a different way.
This basic Awareness Point scheme for an infiltration
requiring the PCs to earn 10 IP can be used as is or
tailored to your game.
SETTING INFILTRATION SKILLS AND DCS
Many of the sample infiltration activities and events give a DC
range instead of a fixed DC. Set the DCs based on the standard
DC of the party level using the table on page 503 of the Core
Rulebook, and adjust them using Table 10–6: DC Adjustments
on page 504. When given a range of skills for an activity or
event, you should vary the difficulty based on the needs of the
story. For instance, if a PC is Scouting a Location, you might
want to use a low DC for Stealth (because it’s easier to scout
when unnoticed), a hard one for Perception (because while
the PC might see the enemy, the enemy might also see them),
and a very hard DC for Society (because walking in like you
belong is difficult if you don’t have an invitation or the right
uniform). This not only adds a certain degree of plausibility,
but by planning for and allowing a broad range of skills as
means to complete the activity, you also become better
prepared for when your players improvise.
3
Subsystems
161
161
introduction
Gamemastery
Basics
Tools
Subsystems
Variant Rules
NPC Gallery
GLOSSARY
and INDEX
