VEHICLES
A villain on the run steals a carriage and sends the characters on a chase through the city,
or the characters find an ancient airship and decide to take it for a spin. Whatever the case,
if vehicles are common throughout your world, they’re likely to come up in your game.
This section provides the tools you’ll need when that happens.
Vehicles can play many roles in a game. They might
simply be the means by which the party travels from
one location to another, determining only the Price to be
paid for passage. But a caravan wagon that gets attacked
becomes part of an encounter. In a pirate campaign, the
ship is both the party’s home and its primary weapon.
The majority of the rules in this section are for using
vehicles in encounters, but vehicles are also useful during
exploration and even downtime play.
VEHICLE BASICS
Ultimately, vehicles are objects. They have object
immunities (Core Rulebook 273), and they can’t act. In
addition to the statistics most objects have, vehicles have
several additional statistics and abilities. Vehicles have a
size like any object, but their spaces are more specifically
defined. Vehicles also have specialized movement rules.
SIZE, SPACE, AND CAPACITY
Vehicles have size traits, but they don’t occupy the same
spaces that most creatures use. Instead, each vehicle has
specific dimensions provided in its stat block.
Most vehicles are Large or larger, and many vehicles
are made for the purpose of carrying cargo. Unless
stated otherwise, the amount of cargo a vehicle can carry
depends on its size, terrain, and propulsion. A draft horse
or similar creature can usually pull around 100 Bulk of
goods consistently throughout the day, so pulled vehicles
can typically hold 100 Bulk per Large creature pulling.
Water vehicles, such as ships, have limits that are more
based on volume than weight; a ship can hold upwards of
1,000 Bulk. Flying vehicles can typically hold only 1/10
the Bulk of a water vehicle and still remain airborne.
MOVEMENT AND HEADING
A vehicle’s movement type is determined by the vehicle
itself, while its movement each round is based on the
pilot’s actions. Vehicles trigger reactions when they move,
just like a creature does, as do the actions of the pilot and
any passengers.
Creatures can rotate and turn freely, so when you play
a creature, you usually don’t need to keep track of which
way it’s facing. However, vehicles can’t turn on a dime, so
when controlling a vehicle, you need to keep track of which
direction it’s facing. This is called the vehicle’s heading.
When a vehicle moves, it must move in the direction
of its heading—it can’t move backwards or sideways,
though it can turn gradually as it moves forward.
Most vehicles can turn up to 90 degrees for every vehicle
length they move forward. For example, a 10-foot-long
carriage could turn left in only 10 feet. A 100-foot-long
warship, however, would need 100 feet to make the same
turn; given the warship’s 30-foot Speed, turning typically
requires several actions’ worth of movement.
Some rules specify that a vehicle must move in a
straight line. This line is measured from the center of the
vehicle’s front edge, and it can skew up to 45 degrees
from the vehicle’s current heading.
When using a vehicle in exploration mode, the vehicle’s
Speed determines its travel speed just like a creature (for
more information, see Table 9–2: Travel Speed on page
479 of the Core Rulebook). No Drive actions or piloting
checks are necessary to pilot a vehicle at these speeds.
PROPULSION
Vehicles typically travel over land, on water, or through the
air, and their Speeds indicate their terrain and movement
types. But vehicles also have a form of propulsion—the
way in which their movement is powered—and this
propulsion often has additional considerations.
There are five main types of propulsion: alchemical,
magical, pulled, rowed, and wind. A vehicle can have more
than one means of propulsion, though it usually uses only
one type of propulsion at a time. For instance, a galley has
both the rowed and the wind propulsion traits, meaning
it can sail when the winds are favorable, but the crew can
also lower the sails and row the ship when necessary. The
vehicle’s means of propulsion informs the skills a pilot can
use for piloting checks (page 175), and some means of
propulsion have additional rules.
alchemical
Powered by the reactions of alchemical reagents, controlled
internal combustion, lighter-than-air gases, or steam,
vehicles with alchemical propulsion tend to be powerful but
have the potential to be wildly unpredictable. Alchemical
vehicles can often be piloted using the Crafting skill.
magical
Magically propelled vehicles are powered by spells, magic
items, or an entirely magical engine. A magical propulsion
system can be targeted with counteracting effects like
dispel magic, using the vehicle’s level and a standard DC
for that level for the counteract check. A creature can use
Arcana, Nature, Occultism, or Religion (depending on
the type of magic) for a magical vehicle’s piloting checks.
Gamemastery Guide
174
174
