STARTING THE CAMPAIGN
Before your first session begins, communicate back and
forth with the players about the following details to make
sure you’ve planned your campaign to fit their preferences,
then recap and communicate your final decisions.
 • Establish the expected schedule and generally how
long you expect the campaign to last. It’s okay if you
don’t know the total length for sure, but you should
still give an estimate.
 • Inform the players when and where the first session
will take place, what they should prepare in advance,
and what materials to bring. If you’re running a
session zero to create characters first (page 7), let them
know. You might also need to tell them whether to
bring food, drinks, and other supplies beyond what
they’ll use for the game itself.
 • Let the players know any restrictions or extra options
for character building. Even if you plan to run a session
zero, give them a heads-up before the session starts.
 • Tell the players where in the game world the first
session will take place.
 • Give the players a basic idea of the genre or theme.
AT THE FIRST SESSION
If you’re running a session zero, read the Session Zero
section on page 7 for advice on your first session. For the
first time you play through an adventure, follow these
bits of advice.
 • Recap the basics of the campaign you established
earlier, particularly where it starts and any themes
you feel will be important for the players to
understand as they roleplay.
 • Have the players introduce their characters. If they
have detailed backstories, it’s usually best that they
start out just describing what the other PCs could
learn with first impressions. If they want to go deeper
into their backstory during play, they can do so later.
 • Ask questions about the characters. Note down
anything you think will be significant, so you can
adjust your plans for later sessions. You’ll want to
keep doing this throughout play.
 • Begin the adventure, using the Starting a Session
steps on page 490 of the Core Rulebook. For your
first adventure, find a good place for the PCs to meet
and a reason for them to be together.
STARTING AT A HIGHER LEVEL
A typical campaign starts at 1st level, but you can start at a
higher level if you choose. This can be especially satisfying
for a one-shot or short campaign, or if your group wants
to play a specific adventure made for higher-level groups.
The PCs should start at the same level. They simply make
a 1st-level character, then level it up the number of times
needed to reach the starting level.
The Character Wealth table on page 511 of the Core
Rulebook indicates how much currency and what common
items of various levels the character should start with.
Let the players choose their own items and spend their
currency on common items as well if they choose. This
table gives them fewer items than they might have had if
they had gained items through adventuring, balancing the
fact that they can choose what items they want.
ENDING THE CAMPAIGN
A campaign might have a well-planned, emotionally
resonant ending that executes perfectly, or the group might
die in a ridiculous fashion at the worst time possible. It’s
important that the ending follow the story, wherever it has
gone, even if it doesn’t match the idea you had in your
head at the start. Check in with your group, especially
when you’re getting close to the end of each adventure, to
see how long they want the campaign to go on. Check in
with yourself, too, and express your opinion to the other
players. Ideally, you know at least a session in advance that
the end is coming, allowing you to prepare for a thrilling
conclusion. You might plan for the final session’s gameplay
to be a bit shorter—possibly just one big showdown—to
allow time for an epilogue and for the group to reminisce
and decompress at the end.
An epilogue can make the end of a campaign more
fulfilling. First, let the group finish out their roleplaying in
the final moments of the adventure until they’re content.
Then tell the group the results of what they accomplished
in broad terms, with concrete details of what happens to
certain places or allied NPCs. Ask the players what their
characters do after the adventure. You might want to narrate
a few short scenes, such as a PC tracking down an escaped
villain and bringing them to justice. When your epilogue is
done, thank everyone for playing. If the campaign ended in
success for the PCs, give yourselves a round of applause. A
victorious ending warrants celebration!
DEALING WITH FAILURE
If a campaign ends prematurely, get a sense from the
players of whether they want to continue. The advice
on Total Party Kills on page 30 should be helpful. If the
campaign ended in a stranger way than a total party kill—
say, a PC handing over the powerful relic the villain needed
to complete a master plan—you can still look for ways
the campaign might continue. Maybe the PCs struggle to
survive in the world after the calamity, or maybe they have
just enough time they might still be able to stop the plan.
THE NEXT CAMPAIGN
If the group plays another campaign in the same world
that takes place after your previous campaign, think
through the repercussions of the last campaign and change
the world as needed. You might introduce new elements
into the world that call back to the previous campaign:
newly powerful factions, new settlements, or new options
for player characters such as backgrounds, all based on the
impact the previous PCs made on the world.
1
Gamemastery Basics
39
39
introduction
Gamemastery
Basics
Tools
Subsystems
Variant Rules
NPC Gallery
GLOSSARY
and INDEX
