Success A small amount of the slime splashes onto the
target. The target is drained 1.
Failure The slime lands on its target. The target is drained 1,
and this condition value increases by 1 at the end of its
turn each round until the slime is removed. If the target
reaches drained 4, the next time its drained value would
increase, it dies and collapses into a slurry of nutrients.
A slime covering a target can no longer be removed
through Survival checks, and damage dealt to the slime is
also dealt to the target (applying the target’s immunities,
weaknesses, and resistances rather than those of the
green slime).
Critical Failure The slime completely coats its target. This
has the same effect as a failure, except the target is
immediately drained 2, becomes drained 4 after 1 round,
and dies after 2 rounds.
Reset 1 hour, as the slime feasts and then slowly creeps back
up to the ceiling
JEALOUS ABJURER
HAZARD 11
HAUNT
Stealth DC 33 (master)
Description A robe-clad spirit rises out of the floor, pointing an
accusing finger.
Disable DC 36 Arcana, Nature, Occultism, or Religion (master)
to convince the spirit that the target’s magical knowledge is
too great to be trifled with
Rend Magic [reaction] (abjuration, arcane) Trigger A creature that
is currently affected by a beneficial spell approaches
within 30 feet of the abjurer; Effect Envying the fame and
magical prowess of others, the jealous abjurer attempts
to engineer a catastrophic failure in the highest-level
beneficial spell currently affecting its target. It
attempts a counteract check with a +26 modifier.
If the counteract check succeeds, the spell is
dispelled, and the creature it had been affecting
takes 4d12+30 force damage as the spell violently
implodes (DC 32 basic Reflex save).
Reset 1 hour
PLUMMETING DOOM
HAZARD 15
HAUNT
Stealth DC 40 (master) to hear the echoes of a
faraway object crashing into the ground
Description Four vengeful spirits grab interlopers
and toss them off the edge of a nearby
120-foot-tall cliff.
Disable DC 40 Athletics (trained) to push back
so forcefully that the spirits fear being thrown
off the cliff, or DC 40 Religion (expert) to
temporarily seal the spirits away
Call of the Ground [reaction] (divine, abjuration) Trigger
A creature approaches within 15 feet of the edge
of the cliff; Effect Each spirit attempts to throw a
creature within 60 feet of the cliff’s edge off the cliff
by attempting a check with a +26 modifier against the
target’s Fortitude DC. If the haunt succeeds, the target is
thrown over the edge of the cliff, where it then falls 120
feet to the ground.
Until the haunt is defeated, each creature within 60 feet
of the cliff’s edge must attempt a DC 40 Will save each time
they would spend an action or reaction to Arrest a Fall, Fly,
Grab an Edge, or otherwise avoid falling; if they fail the save,
the action is disrupted. The haunt automatically attempts
to counteract spells that would slow a fall or mitigate the
effects of falling, such as feather fall, with a counteract
modifier of +32.
Reset 1 hour
GRASP OF THE DAMNED
HAZARD 17
HAUNT
Stealth DC 43 (master)
Description These desperate spirits are the echoes of people
who committed great atrocities in the name of an evil god.
Now, they are left with only the knowledge that their souls
have been damned, and the unwavering belief that they can
better their fate by providing powerful sacrifices for their
fiendish masters.
Disable DC 46 Religion (master) to inspire a deity to intervene
and counteract the ritual
Mark for Damnation [reaction] (death, divine, necromancy) Trigger
Three or more sentient living creatures of 13th level or higher
enter the haunt’s area; Effect The haunt deals 6d12+35
negative damage to each creature in the haunt’s area, and
each creature must attempt a DC 40 Will save.
2
Tools
79
79
introduction
Gamemastery
Basics
Tools
Subsystems
Variant Rules
NPC Gallery
GLOSSARY
and INDEX
