government
The government of a settlement often reflects the nature
of that settlement. A lawful, militaristic city likely has a
hierarchical government with a single figure at the top, a
crossroads market town might be under the control of its
wealthiest merchant families, and a farming community
might simply look to the oldest residents for leadership
as necessary.
That said, the lawful and publicly recognized ruler of
a settlement isn’t always the one calling the shots. They
may merely be a puppet to a secret entity that silently
pulls the strings from the shadows. Some settlements
are ruled by hidden cabals, from strange religious sects
to thieves’ guilds. A settlement might be swayed by
politically powerful residents, such an occult vizier or a
political savvy high priest. In some cases, the legitimate
authority may seem to govern but has actually been
replaced by a faceless stalker, a devil in disguise, or
another powerful shapechanger.
LegaL CodeS
Most civilizations agree that laws are necessary to ensure
a functioning society. The specific laws range from one
settlement to another, and they might be as simple as a
prohibition against murder and theft to exceptionally
convoluted regulatory schemes dictating everything from
clothing details to available confections. How well known
these laws are can further flavor a party’s interactions
with that settlement, as it’s likely easier to navigate a
well‑documented system than one in which the rules are
learned only through experience and word of mouth.
Much like a government, the legal codes reflect the
settlement’s alignment and overall nature. Generally
speaking, a more lawful settlement is likely to have more
complex laws, and a more lax locale to have fewer and
simpler laws.
Law enforCement
Most settlements have systems in place to enforce their
laws. In a small village, the residents might just police
themselves, holding one another accountable to their
shared values. Towns and larger settlements usually have
some system of guards, whether that’s a post filled by a
rotation of volunteers or a city guard of professionals
paid by the city’s government to maintain order. Most
settlements have some way of dealing with criminals, from
fines to public stocks to prison cells, as well as individuals
responsible for meting out those sentences.
organizationS, ChurCheS, and faCtionS
The government isn’t the only influential factor in a
settlement. Prestigious organizations, prominent churches,
and specialized factions all wield power as well, often
in conflict with the official government or one another.
2
Tools
133
133
introduction
Gamemastery
Basics
Tools
Subsystems
Variant Rules
NPC Gallery
GLOSSARY
and INDEX
