vehicle’s movement triggers an Attack of Opportunity
that knocks the pilot unconscious or paralyzes them, the
vehicle becomes uncontrolled.
An uncontrolled vehicle continues to move each round
at its most recent pilot’s initiative position. The distance it
moves each round is 10 feet less than on the previous round,
always in a straight line at its current heading until it crashes
or it comes to a stop. At your discretion, it could slow down
more if it’s on uneven terrain, difficult terrain, on an upward
slope, or facing adverse wind conditions; by the same token,
it could stay at the same speed or even accelerate if it’s on a
downward slope or being pushed by strong winds.
An uncontrolled vehicle in motion interacts with
obstacles, other vehicles, and creatures using the effects
of the Run Over action, except that the distance it moves
is dictated by the factors above instead of the Speed
specified in that action.
VEHICLES IN COMBAT
Whether driving a chariot in an arena or fighting off a
boarding party, characters sometimes attack from a vehicle
or target other creatures aboard a vehicle. Attacks made
while on a vehicle that has moved within the last round take
a –2 penalty, or a –4 penalty if the vehicle is uncontrolled
or any action in the last round had the reckless trait.
While on a vehicle, a character might have cover from
certain angles of attack. A vehicle with sides but no top,
such as a chariot or a keelboat, usually provides lesser
cover, or standard cover from an attacker on the ground.
An enclosed vehicle, such as a carriage, provides greater
cover or may prevent attacks entirely. Breaking the
vehicle can reduce the cover it provides.
Some vehicles have special mounted weapons that can
be used by the pilot or passengers. These are typically
ranged weapons, such as a crossbow, and use the same
rules as any other weapon, save that they might be able
to target only creatures in a certain range or direction.
BROKEN VEHICLES
When a vehicle is broken, it becomes harder to use. It
takes a –2 penalty to its AC, saves, and collision DC,
and the DC of all piloting checks related to the vehicle
increase by 5. The broken vehicle’s Speeds are halved.
A vehicle reduced to 0 HP is destroyed, like any other
item. If the vehicle is in water when it’s destroyed, it sinks;
if it is flying, it falls and everyone aboard takes falling
damage. A pulled or rowed vehicle that becomes wrecked,
regardless of which method of propulsion it’s using at the
time, deals its collision damage (no saving throw) to the
creatures pulling or rowing it, and the creatures may have
to be physically freed from the wreckage.
VEHICLE STATISTICS
Vehicles can be as simple as a farmer’s cart, or as large and
complex as an airship. Whatever the size or complexity of
a vehicle, it uses the following stat block format.
VEHICLE NAME
VEHICLE [LEVEL]
SIZE
OTHER TRAITS
Price This entry lists the vehicle’s Price. This does not include
creatures for pulling a vehicle, materials needed to power
the vehicle, or the cost of rowers.
Space This entry gives the vehicle’s dimensions, not including
any creatures pulling the vehicle.
Crew The crew members required to operate the vehicle;
Passengers the number of passengers the vehicle is
typically configured to carry, if any.
Piloting Check This entry lists the skills that can be used for
piloting checks while operating the vehicle. Some skills may
increase the DC; these list the DC adjustment in parentheses
following the skill name.
AC The vehicle’s AC; Saving Throws The vehicle’s saves
(typically only Fortitude). If a vehicle needs to attempt a
saving throw that isn’t listed, the pilot attempts a piloting
check at the same DC instead.
Hardness The vehicle’s hardness, HP The vehicle’s Hit Points,
with its Broken Threshold in parenthesis; Immunities The
vehicle’s immunities; Weaknesses The vehicle’s weaknesses,
if any; Resistances The vehicle’s resistances, if any.
Speed The vehicle’s Speeds, each followed by the propulsion
type for that Speed in parentheses. A pulled vehicle
indicates the number and size of the pulling creatures.
Collision The vehicle’s collision damage and the DC for saving
throws to mitigate that damage. Unless otherwise stated,
collisions deal bludgeoning damage. If the vehicle has any
other form of attack, like mounted weaponry, they appear
in their own entries below this one.
Special Abilities Any abilities unique to the vehicle are listed
at the end of the stat block.
SAMPLE VEHICLES
Presented here is a sample of the many vehicles that can
be found throughout Golarion.
AIRSHIP
VEHICLE 12
RARE
GARGANTUAN
Price 6,000 gp
Space 90 feet long, 30 feet wide, 60 feet high
Crew 1 pilot, 5 other crew; Passengers 15
Piloting Check Arcana (DC 32), Crafting (DC 32), Nature (DC
32), or Piloting Lore (DC 30)
AC 28; Fort +22
Hardness 20, HP 210 (BT 105); Immunities critical hits,
object immunities, precision damage; Weaknesses 15 fire
until broken
GALLOP
Horses and some other creatures have the Gallop action
(Bestiary 209). When all creatures pulling a vehicle have this
action, the pilot can take a –2 circumstance penalty to their
piloting check for a 2-action or 3-action Drive to gain the
circumstance bonus to Speed from the Gallop action.
3
Subsystems
177
177
introduction
Gamemastery
Basics
Tools
Subsystems
Variant Rules
NPC Gallery
GLOSSARY
and INDEX
