New items make great mementos of previous adventures
and tend to be one of the easiest elements for a character to
begin using mid-campaign after receiving them as a reward.
This section explains the philosophy and numbers behind
creating items so you can design your own in no time!
CONCEPT AND ROLE
First, come up with a concept for the item based on the role
the item serves in your game and in the game’s world. You
might include a new item in an ancient ruin to hint at the its
history and the people who used to live there. For instance, a
Thassilonian ruin might have an item based on rune magic,
while a Jistkan ruin might have an item related to golems.
A new magic item might be important later in the story,
or its role might be as simple as a fun wolf-themed item for
the monk that uses Wolf Stance. Keep your concept in mind
to guide you through the rest of the process. Start thinking
about what kind of magic item it will be. Each item type has
its own niche, and some are less likely to be as useful to the
PCs. For instance, new weapons and armor require the PC
to give up the weapon or armor they already have, which
might make them more reluctant to use the new items unless
they’re noticeably better, while consumable items don’t have
as big an impact on the story as permanent items.
ITEM LEVEL
A new item is typically going to be within a few levels of
the PCs. If it’s too low, it might not be interesting, and if it’s
too high, it might be too powerful or too lucrative to sell.
COMPARISON
First, take a look at similar items. For example, if you want
a permanent item that lets someone fly, look at the broom of
flying, which moves of its own volition to a location and thus
can’t be used to gain a huge advantage during combat, and
winged boots, which can. This will give you an idea of the
right level range and the different specifics and limitations of
existing items. You might even be able to just adjust one of
those a bit to get what you want with minimal work.
ITEM EFFECTS
Next, use the item’s concept and role to decide its effects.
This is where your creativity will bring the item to life. Make
sure to have it do something exciting and roleplay-inspiring.
A magic item that does nothing more than deliver a bonus is
far less interesting, even if the item does have a load-bearing
item bonus, like a magic weapon. To determine the item’s
power, take into account the special abilities you give the
item as well as the item bonus (if any) that it grants.
BUILDING ITEMS
Creating your own magic and alchemical items is an amazing way to customize the
adventure and gameplay for your group and add unique elements without requiring quite
the same mechanical depth as a whole new class, archetype, or ancestry.
For specific advice for the type of magic item you are
creating, check out Designing by Type on page 83.
SPECIAL ABILITIES
When deciding what special abilities are appropriate for
what level, it’s best to look for similar spells to gauge the
effect. For most consumables, the effect should be less
powerful than the highest level spell a spellcaster of the
item’s level could cast. Scrolls are about the most efficient
you can get—they’re the same level the spellcaster would
be—but they require a spellcaster that has the spell on their
list, and take the same actions as casting the spell normally.
The most straightforward choice is a once-per-day ability.
For this, the item’s level should be at least 2 levels higher
than the minimum level a spellcaster could first cast that
spell. For example, if your ability is about as powerful as
a 3rd-level spell cast once per day (perhaps haste), then it
should be at least a 7th-level item. A basic wand is a good
example. However, a wand is flexible and can contain the
most effective possible choice for its spell level (such as
long-lasting spells where once a day is effectively permanent),
so a specific item that doesn’t grant such a spell could have
additional powers or bonuses at the same price as a wand.
If the item can be activated multiple times per day, it
should be at least 4 levels higher instead—9th level in our
example. Frequency could range from twice per day to
once per hour and anything in between. Choose whatever
makes sense to allow the characters to use the item more
frequently without being effectively constant or unlimited.
The appropriate frequency, or whether it’s ever okay to
have unlimited activations, varies wildly based on the spell.
Unlimited castings of a cantrip is fine, but an effect akin to
a non-cantrip spell is rarely a good idea. Only attempt to
build such an item when you’re certain of the consequences.
Items that can be activated less often than once per day
don’t appear too often, and they usually fit best with abilities
that make sense outside of encounters. It’s still best to stick
to the guidelines for once-per-day abilities, but these items
tend to have more properties—and often strange ones.
Constant aBilities
If you want an effect to be constant, set the level and Price
accordingly. For instance, let’s say your group is 16th level
and you want to give them an item themed around flying.
A 7th-level fly spell lasts an hour already, so one casting
covers a significant portion of the adventuring day. To keep
it simpler, you decide to create a 16th-level cloak that lets
the wearer constantly fly. Remember, some effects were
never meant to be constant and could warp your game.
Gamemastery Guide
82
82
