Gamemastery Guide
218
218
FORESTERS
From the managed and cultivated forests that support villages to the tree-covered
crown lands where only nobles and their servants are permitted to hunt, forests
provide. To communities, forests provide fuel, food, medicine, and raw materials,
while royally protected forests provide food for the nobles’ table and a source of
entertainment in the form of organized hunts. Even the ancient woods untouched
by mortal hand or blade provide bards with settings where legends happened and
could happen again. Many find the forest depths unsettling, but others live their
lives among the trees and alongside the creatures that make their homes there.
POACHER
Some forests are protected by kings, others only by wild things. Laws against
hunting may protect the private reserves of nobles or guard the viability of animal
populations of shared forests during specific seasons. Poachers violate those laws—
sometimes out of greed, sometimes out of desperation, and sometimes for sport.
Although penalties against poaching often include public shaming (see Penalties for
Poaching), in lean times a successful poacher is a local hero.
POACHER
CREATURE 2
NE
MEDIUM
HUMAN
HUMANOID
Perception +9
Languages Common
Skills Crafting +4, Deception +4, Nature +7, Stealth +8, Survival +7
Str +2, Dex +4, Con +1, Int +0, Wis +3, Cha +0
Items club, composite shortbow (20 arrows), padded armor, snare kit
Forager While using Survival to Subsist, if the hunter rolls a failure
or a critical failure, they get a success instead. If the hunter rolls
a success, they can provide food for 4 additional creatures that
eat about as much as a human, or 8 creatures on a critical
success.
Snare Crafting The poacher can use the Crafting skill to create
the following snares: alarm snare, hampering snare, marking
snare, and signaling snare. The poacher can create four snares
each day without paying for the materials, using 3 Interact
actions to set up each snare.
AC 19; Fort +7, Ref +10, Will +7
HP 30
Speed 25 feet
Melee  club +8, Damage 1d6+5 bludgeoning
Ranged  composite shortbow +10 (deadly 1d10, propulsive,
range increment 60 feet, reload 0), Damage 1d6+3 piercing
Hunt Prey  (concentrate) The poacher designates a single
creature they can see and hear, or one they’re Tracking, as their
prey. The poacher gains a +2 circumstance bonus to Perception
checks to Seek the prey and to Survival checks to Track the prey.
The first time the poacher hits the designated prey in a round, they deal an
additional 1d8 precision damage. The poacher also ignores the penalty for making
ranged attacks within their second range increment. These effects last until the
poacher uses Hunt Prey again.
TRACKER
The forest offers dangerous creatures—whether they walk on four legs or two—a
place to hide. Dim light, low brush, and fallen leaves conspire to hide their
trails. Given these poor conditions, an unskilled eye might spot a sign or two
of a creature’s passing, but only a skilled tracker can identify several such
signs and discern their relationship to each other, connecting one to the next
PENALTIES FOR POACHING
Punishment for poaching on noble
land can be vicious. Maiming
poachers by removing fingers
is a common practice. Crueler
punishments include snaring
poachers in their own traps and
leaving them helpless, or binding
them in the bloody skins of their
catch and setting dogs to chase them
through the woods.
POACHER
