based on geography, for example, with exploring a series of
dungeon corridors as one scene and entering the dungeon’s
great hall another. Other times, you’ll break out of a scene
at a point of interest. If the PCs decide to stop their travels
and investigate a statue, think of that as a new scene.
This gives you a good point to describe the transition
between scenes. Describe what was happening to reinforce
where the group was, then describe what they now face
to show the change. For example, “You’ve been making
your way through this long hallway, but after a moment
of debate, you stop, your footsteps and voices still echoing
down the hall. The stone statue before you is seven feet
high, adorned with rubies. It represents... maybe a god? Its
face is damaged and broken. What do you do?”
When playing out a scene, your initial description
should set the expectation of what level of detail the
scene might go into, with you and the players adjusting
as needed as you play. Also, it can be useful to go from
PC to PC to avoid everybody talking at once. Start with
someone who instigated the scene change, if possible,
or perhaps the PC using the most relevant exploration
activity, like a PC Investigating artwork or Searching for
secrets in the example above.
HAZARDS
The task of looking for and disarming hazards comes up
frequently in exploration and is an example of a type of
exploration scene. Hazards don’t usually appear out of
nowhere. A trap might be on a door’s lock, at a specific
bend in a corridor, or so on. You could have a pit trap in
the middle of a large room, but a surprise that’s entirely
unexpected can be pretty unsatisfying. The same pit trap
appearing in the middle of a 10-foot-wide, suspiciously
featureless hallway can make the players say, “Okay, we
should have seen that coming,” with even that minimal
amount of foreshadowing.
When a complex hazard triggers, move to encounter
mode. Simple hazards are usually dealt with in exploration
mode, but that doesn’t mean they should be glossed over.
Give a clear picture of what action by a PC set off the
hazard, what happens as the hazard activates, and any
aftereffects. PCs have many ways to heal themselves, so
keep in mind that a damaging hazard won’t always have
a huge effect. They tend to work best if their activation
might alert creatures in the area, lock the PCs out of an
area, or cause a similar setback beyond just damage.
If a PC detects a hazard and wants to disable it, slow
down a bit. Ask the player to describe what the PC is
doing and give concrete details about how their efforts
pan out to make it feel more real. It’s good if the player
sweats a little bit! It’s supposed to be a tense situation,
after all. If a hazard requires multiple checks to disable,
it’s good to describe what happens with each success to
show incremental progress.
Gamemastery Guide
20
20
