A metropolis, for example, might have several distinct
neighborhoods: Castle Ward, Noble Quarter, Temple
Hill, the Gardens, Scholars’ Court, Artisan Plaza, the
docks, the slums, and so forth.
Step 3. Markets and Shops: Designate one or more
open spaces in the settlement for a market square. This
marketplace typically grows in the city center, along a
major road intersecting the settlement’s primary trade
route. Lining the perimeter of the temporary tents and
stalls of a bazaar are permanent retail shops offering
pricier goods and services. Here in the beating heart
of city commerce, adventurers can arm themselves for
upcoming expeditions or sell their ill‑gotten gains once
making it back to the settlement.
Step 4. Inns: Heroes need a place to celebrate and
recover between adventures. In addition to both public
and private lodging, a settlement’s inns often serve food
and drink. As with the town market, inns are commonly
built in central locations where trade roads meet. In
your campaign, inns are ideal locations to spread gossip,
introduce notable NPCs, and initiate quests. For the right
price, innkeepers might rent strongboxes to secure money
and other valuables between adventures.
Step 5. Landmarks: To give your cities a sense of
personality and local flavor, design a handful of iconic
landmarks for the PCs to visit. Memorable names make
these landmarks more interesting. A random observatory
might be noteworthy, but the Celestial Watchtower has
an air of intrigue that could lead to a fun adventure hook.
RELIGION
The greatest stories from myth and legend speak of
immortals with incredible powers of creation and
destruction. Some meddle in the affairs of mortals,
shaping heroes and history at a whim, while others
remain aloof or oblivious to the mortal world. Regardless
of the world you’re building, religion (or even the absence
thereof) shapes the people and the stories you tell.
THEOLOGY
Religious traditions are commonly categorized by their
belief in one or more divine entities.
Polytheism: This belief system posits the existence of
many gods. Polytheistic gods typically espouse particular
areas of concern and often reflect the appearance of their
worshippers. The primary religious philosophy of the Age
of Lost Omens is polytheistic.
Dualism: This philosophy espouses an enduring conflict
between two diametrically opposed cosmic forces; most
commonly good and evil or law and chaos. Acolytes of
each faith almost always see themselves as righteous, and
those of the contrasting belief as false.
Monotheism: A monotheistic doctrine recognizes the
existence of only one true god. The supreme deity may
exhibit more than one aspect yet remain a single entity,
like Gozreh from the Age of Lost Omens.
Pantheism: Divine power arises from the universe itself,
or as a byproduct of the collective power of many deities
sharing some common facet, either way forming a vast,
all‑encompassing divine entity. Worshippers sometimes
appeal to or devote themselves to specific fundamental
concepts or aspects of the universe.
Animism: Rather than worshipping gods associated
with souls and spiritual essence from beyond, animism
sees the life force in each part of the world, whether it be
the trees of an old‑growth forest or a towering waterfall.
An example of animism in the Age of Lost Omens is
the connection between the Shoanti people and their
totems, which they forge a relationship with when they
come of age.
Atheism: In some campaign worlds, the gods have all
died, abandoned their worshippers, or never existed at
all. Mortals of this world may still cling to belief and
establish religions in the name of the divine, but there are
no true deities to answer their prayers.
PANTHEONS
In polytheistic traditions, a pantheon is a divine hierarchy
of multiple (or even all) deities.
Universal: All deities in the setting belong to a single
pantheon. Different cultures might have their own names
for the god of magic, for instance, but only a single deity
answers their prayers.
Ancestral or Regional: Each ancestry or region worships
its own distinct pantheon. These pantheons coexist in the
same cosmology but establish control in separate divine
realms. Across the cosmos, several gods from disparate
pantheons may share the same area of concern, but they
seldom compete for worshippers from rival pantheons.
Competitive: The world contains smaller regional
pantheons competing for mortal worship. Only one
deity of a specific area of concern may ascend to greater
power across all the pantheons. As such, deities typically
have little loyalty to their own pantheons and may
actually switch to another pantheon if it earns them
additional worshippers.
None: The deities of this multiverse act as individuals
with no familial ties or common agenda binding them to
each other.
DEITIES
These immortal beings command vast power and influence
fueled by the faith and souls of mortal worshippers. In
Pathfinder, deities also dictate some of the abilities of
those champions and clerics who channel their power.
When designing deities, you’ll need to include the divine
statistics and devotee benefits described below.
divine rank
Gods are usually ranked in a divine hierarchy, from
newly ascended godlings to almighty creator gods of
unfathomable power.
2
Tools
127
127
introduction
Gamemastery
Basics
Tools
Subsystems
Variant Rules
NPC Gallery
GLOSSARY
and INDEX
