DEEP BACKGROUNDS
The decision of a character background is not necessarily a complicated one; the player
simply selects from the available background options to reflect their character’s life before
adventuring. While this is a good method for determining a character’s backstory, some
players might want more insight into their character’s early life or family.
USING DEEP
BACKGROUNDS
This variant replaces Step 4 of Character Creation (Core
Rulebook page 25). The player rolls on the tables in this
section to determine their character’s family background,
homeland, major childhood event, influential associate,
relationships, and drawbacks. Each element of the player’s
background adds options to the final list of ability boosts,
skills, feats, and other options that their background can
grant. The player writes these options down as they build
their character’s background. At the end of the process, they
select the following from among the options written down.
 • Two ability boosts, each to a different ability score.
 • Training in a Lore skill.
 • One skill feat (or possibly another feat or piece of
equipment). If the player chooses a skill feat, they
become trained in its prerequisite skill, or one of its
possible prerequisite skills if it has multiple (such as
Quick Identification). If the random results include a
feat that isn’t a skill feat and the player selects that
feat, they don’t gain training in a skill. If they choose
a piece of equipment instead of a skill feat, the entry
indicates what skill training, if any, they receive.
REROLLING AND SELECTING
At your discretion, the players don’t have to be bound by
any results from the following tables. Depending on how
your group wants to use deep backgrounds, players can
reroll any result they don’t like, or even select a specific
option from a table that fits their emerging vision of their
character. However, if you allow players to reroll or directly
select options (and potentially even if you don’t), you might
want to exclude options that grant feats other than skill
feats; these options are unusual enough that they might put
too much pressure on players to select only these options.
Note that the following tables reflect the Core Rulebook
and the Age of Lost Omens setting—if your game takes
place in a different setting, feel free to adjust the tables or
allow players to select the options that best fit your setting.
GENERATING DEEP
BACKGROUNDS
As a player, follow the steps below to generate your
character’s deep background.
STEP 1: FAMILY BACKGROUND
The word family means something different to everyone.
You might have a biological family, adopted family, step-
family, or any other kind and combination you choose;
family bonds come in all types. To determine the number of
family members you grew up with as an active part of your
life, roll 1d% on the following table. Use the medium family
for most ancestries, small if you’re a half-elf or half-orc, and
large if you’re a goblin or halfling. For ancestries other than
Gamemastery Guide
186
186
