of what they’re fighting against in addition to the horror of
the way they fight it.
• When the PCs make progress, show uncertainty or
demoralization in their foes, possibly even desertion.
Foes cultists, revolutionaries
MayHeM
The opposition is a force for mayhem, without any greater plan
or long-term goal. It may be a mindless force of violence such as
a wounded beast, or a thinking foe that simply revels in causing
chaos and damage.
• Mayhem is easy to track and find, often leaving a trail of
destruction in its path. Show how the senseless violence
causes uncertainty and fear, disrupting both settlements
and the natural order of things.
• A single powerful foe is a common source of mayhem, but
a pack, herd, cult, or secret society could also be to blame.
The source of the mayhem may be the result of the natural
order being out of balance, or might be a distraction set off
by a different foe looking to use it to further its own goals.
• Emphasize the cascading effects of unchecked mayhem.
Normal trade, farming, migration, and similar systems
are disrupted, causing problems far from the immediate
location of violence and disruption.
• When the PCs make progress, show how resilient systems
can recover from massive disruptions but may need
additional help or protection.
Foes beasts, dinosaurs, drakes, giants
subjugation
The opposition wants to rule over a group, location, or even the
world. Their ultimate objective is to control and rule.
• Show how groups submit to subjugation rather than suffer
the consequences of resistance. The PCs see elements of
culture destroyed to ensure subjugation—are religions and
churches destroyed, subverted, or replaced? Are lackeys
put in place to keep oppressed populations in line?
• Make enemies self-righteous, focused, and in control of
groups they have previously subjugated. Fights aren’t just
for the sake of violence, but steps towards greater control.
• Show opposition: open conflict, rebellion, secret
groups, sabotage, and countercultural art. Give PCs the
opportunity to support or participate in each.
• When the PCs make progress, have previously cowed or
neutral parties be moved to rebel.
Foes chromatic dragons, devils, hags, hobgoblins, rakshasas
MOTIVATIONS
Think about your opposition, and what their goals and
motivations are. The motivation of the opposition needs
to match your threat. If you have multiple adversaries,
their motivations should all work toward your theme,
but they might have different goals and act more as
rivals or enemies. Motivations should be more than one
dimensional. There should be a reason for every action
the opposition takes—not necessarily a good one or a
smart one, but a believable one. Be true to each character!
Consider these questions so you can use the answers
when deciding what the opposition will do.
 • What does the opposition want?
 • Who or what does the opposition fear? (And no,
“the PCs” isn’t an answer.)
 • Why is the opposition sure to succeed? If the PCs don’t
do anything, what makes the opposition unstoppable?
 • What are the opposition’s weaknesses? How can
they be bribed or tricked? What’s something they
ignore that might be used against them?
STORY ARCS
Keep several story arcs in mind. Most of these will be driven
by the opposition in the early going, but PCs might initiate
their own story arcs. Think of what the beginning, middle,
and end of each arc might look like. Imagine a logical end
point the arc would reach if nothing else changes. Then,
adjust it based on events in the game. As changes occur,
revisit the end point you’ve imagined. If the adversary’s
plan has been derailed, what might they do instead? Story
arcs should reflect the theme of the adventure and be
well-positioned to show off motivations.
Many arcs will last only for the duration of one
adventure, but others build up and recur across the whole
campaign. Include some of each so you have variety.
This also provides closure, as the players can see some
storylines wrapped up in the short term and others over
a long period. Too many dangling plot threads can result
in some being forgotten or make players feel overloaded.
Touchstones like the ones below make a story arc
adaptable, not too restricted to specific scenes or characters.
 • Use motifs. Use repeated thematic elements, visuals,
phrases, and items to reinforce the connection
between one adventure or segment of the story and
another. The motif can also build in complexity as
you move further along in the overarching story.
BUILDING A SANDBOX
In a “sandbox” game, you give the players a sizable location
to explore and let them decide how to go about it. A sandbox
doesn’t have as many time-sensitive events as a directed
adventure, and the flow of the game is driven more by the
players than by the opposition. You can put self-contained
dungeons or other locations within the sandbox, but it’s up
to the players when and how to visit them or deal with them.
To make a sandbox, create about triple the number of
encounters and spread them out among multiple locations or
factions. You can expect the PCs won’t deal with all of them. In
most cases, you’ll want to determine where the PCs are headed
next before the end of a session so you can prepare for the next
session. Depending on the size and complexity of the location,
the number of encounters might be much higher. Treat each
sub-area as a kind of mini-adventure, and only loosely sketch it
until you know what the PCs’ plans are.
Gamemastery Guide
44
44
