device to jam, overheat, and explode. Creatures within 60
feet of the explosion must succeed at a DC 55 Reflex save
or become covered in an alchemical slurry that transforms
them into a horrifying amalgam of at least two of the
creatures used to destroy the machine.
SERITHTIAL
ITEM 23
UNIQUE
LG
ABJURATION
ARTIFACT
DIVINE
INTELLIGENT
Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk 1
Perception +28; normal vision and hearing within 60 feet
Communication empathy (partner only)
Skills Iomedae Lore +29, Religion +26, Zon‑Kuthon Lore +29
Int +2, Wis +1, Cha +2
Will +30
The legendary blade Serithtial is said to have been forged
by Iomedae, goddess of honor, justice, and valor. She is an
intelligent +4 major striking holy bastard sword. Although
the sword is made of steel, Serithtial is also treated as cold
iron and silver (Core Rulebook 578), allowing her to deal
more damage to certain supernatural creatures.
She glows as bright as a torch, but you or Serithtial
can suppress or resume this glow as a single action,
which has the concentrate trait. In addition, Strikes with
Serithtial deal an additional 2d6 damage against creatures
that are worshippers of Zon‑Kuthon, and while wielding
Serithtial, you constantly benefit from death ward and
freedom of movement spells that function only against
effects created by followers of Zon‑Kuthon.
Serithtial was forged as a bastard sword, and she
reverts to this shape when no one wields her, but she
can also detect what sort of blade her current wielder
prefers and transform into it (choosing from dagger,
shortsword, longsword, scimitar, falchion, greatsword,
rapier, or bastard sword) using an action, which she
does when first held. The wielder can empathically tell
Serithtial to transform at any time by using a single
action, which has the concentrate
trait, after which Serithtial uses an
action to transform.
Serithtial is willing to work with a
partner of almost any alignment as long as they
are dedicated to defeating the great wyrm Kazavon and the
forces of Zon‑Kuthon. If you ignore those threats and pursue
your own agenda instead, before long Serithtial attempts to
seize control of your body (DC 45 Will save to resist her
control), though she typically remains in control for only
long enough to find a more worthy partner. You can attempt
a new Will save each day to retake control of your body.
Activate envision; Frequency once per hour; Effect Serithtial
spends the appropriate number of actions and casts a 9th
level heal or zone of truth spell (DC 45 for either of the
two spells).
Destruction If Kazavon or a great wyrm shadow dragon who
is a worshipper of Zon‑Kuthon uses its breath weapon on
Serithtial while she is unattended, the sword melts into a pool
of mundane iron.
SHOT OF THE FIRST VAULT
ITEM 23
RARE
ARTIFACT
DIVINE
EVOCATION
Ammunition any
Legends claim that some long‑forgotten god stole the original
bundle of shots of the First Vault from Abadar’s repository.
Since then, individual pieces have turned up throughout
the multiverse. When you pick up a shot of the First Vault,
it immediately reshapes itself to function with any ranged
weapon and establishes you as its owner until another
creature picks it up. As its owner, you can use the shot’s
single‑action activation after shooting it.
Instead of rolling weapon damage dice, a shot of the
First Vault deals 25 damage plus any bonuses or additional
damage as if 25 were the result of the weapon’s damage
dice; the damage type matches that normally dealt by
the weapon. Upon damaging a creature, the shot of the
First Vault shatters, and the fragments ricochet to hit
any other enemies within 30 feet, making attack rolls
with the same attack bonus. The shattered fragments
remain lodged in the creatures they damage;
the creatures are clumsy 2 while the fragments
remain in place. A total of 3 actions, which
have the manipulate trait, are required to remove
the fragments from yourself or an adjacent creature;
alternatively, a single action and a successful DC 30
Medicine check can be used. A critical failure on this
Medicine check deals 10 persistent bleed damage to the
creature with the embedded fragment.
Activate [one-action] command; Effect You recall the shot of the
First Vault, which automatically reloads itself into your
weapon. If the shot had fragmented, the fragments
violently dislodge themselves, dealing 15 persistent bleed
damage to each creature in which they were embedded.
The fragments then unite to re‑form the shot of the First
Vault, which automatically reloads itself into your weapon.
Activate [three-actions] Interact; Requirements The shot is loaded in
your ranged weapon, or at hand if your ranged weapon has
a reload of 0; Effect You line up a perfectly aimed attack
directly toward the First Vault. You Strike a creature, then
the shot of the First Vault attempts to bring your target with
it as it returns to the First Vault. Unless your attack roll is
a critical failure, the creature must attempt a DC 45 Reflex
save; this effect has the incapacitation trait. Regardless, the
shot of the First Vault returns to the First Vault.
Critical Success The creature is unaffected.
Success The creature is moved 1d20×50 feet in the direction
you fired. If this causes it to hit a solid object, it takes 50
bludgeoning damage.
Failure The creature is transported to a random location on
the plane of Axis.
Critical Failure The creature is transported to the First Vault.
Unless it is capable of eluding Abadar’s precautions, it is
likely unable to escape the Vault on its own.
Destruction If 10 shots of the First Vault are all fired at the
same group of keketar or izfiitar proteans within 1 minute
of each other, each shot was a hit, and the shots are then
Gamemastery Guide
112
112
