take on a pallid appearance and gain poison resistance
equal to half the relic’s level and a +1 status bonus to saving
throws against death effects, diseases, effects that would
make you paralyzed, poison, and sleep effects. In addition,
the DC for your recovery checks is 9 + your dying value
instead of 10 + your dying value.
PIERCE THE VEIL
MAJOR GIFT
NECROMANCY
Aspect death; Prerequisites living death gift
The relic allows you to pierce the veil
between life and death. While you are
holding or wearing the relic, you have
the negative healing ability (as though you
were undead; positive energy harms you
and negative energy heals you). In addition,
whenever you are healed by a negative spell or
effect, you gain resistance 5 to all damage (except
force, ghost touch, and positive) until the start of
your next turn. Finally, you gain a +2 item bonus
to all saves against death effects while you are
the bearer of the relic; this increases to a +3 item
bonus at 13th level.
TIDE OF DEATH
MAJOR GIFT
NECROMANCY
NEGATIVE
Aspect death; Prerequisites death gaze gift
You can Activate death gaze with 3 actions instead of 2. If
you do, it targets all living creatures within 30 feet except for
you. If you have the negative healing ability, you can include
yourself to be healed.
GRIM SPECTER
GRAND GIFT
NECROMANCY
Aspect death
Activate [two-actions] command, envision; Frequency once per day;
Effect You can call upon the terrifying powers that fuel
your relic to transform yourself into a specter of death.
You become incorporeal, having no physical body. You are
immune to effects that require a physical body, including
precision damage as well as exposure to most diseases
and poisons. You also have resistance to all damage
equal to half the relic’s level; force damage, ghost touch
attacks, negative damage, and positive damage ignore
this resistance, and the resistance doubles against
non-magical damage.
You can move through solid objects. When inside an
object, you can’t perceive, attack, or Interact with anything
outside it, and you’re always slowed 1 on turns you start
in an object. Corporeal creatures can pass through you
but can’t end their movement in your space. You can’t
attempt Strength-based checks against corporeal creatures
or objects, unless those objects have the ghost touch
property rune. Likewise, corporeal creatures can’t attempt
Strength-based checks against you.
You can Sustain the Activation up to 1 minute.
EARTH GIFTS
EASE BURDEN
MINOR GIFT
EARTH
TRANSMUTATION
Aspect earth
Your relic draws strength from the earth underfoot to lighten
your load. As long as your relic is on your person and you are
standing on the ground, you can carry 1 more Bulk
than normal before becoming encumbered, and
you increase your maximum Bulk by 2. At 6th
level and every 4 levels thereafter, increase the
Bulk you can carry before becoming encumbered
by 1 and your maximum Bulk by 2.
ROLLING GEODE
MINOR GIFT
CONJURATION
EARTH
Aspect earth
Activate [two-actions] command, envision; Frequency once per
hour; Effect Stone and crystal form a sphere that chases
your foes. You create a geode in an unoccupied square
within 30 feet. You can spend a single action, which has
the concentrate trait, to move the geode up to 30 feet
along the ground. If the geode enters a creature’s space,
the creature must succeed at a basic Reflex save or take
2d6 bludgeoning damage; a creature can take damage this
way only once per turn, even if you roll the geode through its
space multiple times. The geode persists for up to 1 minute or
until destroyed or Dismissed; it has AC 5, Hardness 10, and 40
Hit Points, and is immune to critical hits and precision damage.
SHATTERED EARTH
MINOR GIFT
EARTH
EVOCATION
Aspect earth
Activate [two-actions] command, Interact; Frequency once per hour;
Effect Seismic pulses from your relic ripple through the
nearby ground, shaking sharp fragments to the surface.
A 10-foot-radius patch of stone or earth within 60 feet is
transformed into difficult terrain. A creature that enters
an affected square during a move action must succeed at
an Acrobatics check or Reflex save or take 1d6 piercing
damage; it needs to roll only once per move action even if
it moves through several squares. At 6th level and every 4
levels thereafter, increase the damage by 1d6.
RAISE RAMPARTS
MAJOR GIFT
CONJURATION
EARTH
Aspect earth
Activate [three-actions] command, Interact; Frequency once per day;
Effect Your relic reshapes the earth around you. You cast
5th-level wall of stone.
UNDERGROUND BOUNTY
MAJOR GIFT
CONJURATION
EARTH
Aspect earth
Your relic produces metals and stones to empower your
weapons. Each day during your daily preparations, your
2
Tools
99
99
introduction
Gamemastery
Basics
Tools
Subsystems
Variant Rules
NPC Gallery
GLOSSARY
and INDEX
