REPUTATION
Sometimes it’s crucial to know how groups of people feel about the PCs. That’s where
reputation comes into play. The reputation subsystem is a simple way to use Victory Points
to determine how the PCs stand with such groups.
Reputation is a mid- to long-term subsystem wherein
the PCs accumulate or lose Reputation Points with
a particular group of people, whether it be a guild, a
government, a church, a village, or anything else you can
think of. The PCs gain Reputation Points by performing
favors for the organization, to a maximum of 50
Reputation Points, and lose Reputation Points by doing
disservices, to a minimum of –50 Reputation Points.
FAVORS
Each favor the PCs perform for a group normally grants
the PCs Reputation Points with that group.
 • Minor favors are simple, basic tasks that don’t take
too much effort for a PC to perform or much time at
the table. Minor favors grant 1 Reputation Point.
 • Moderate favors require a significant amount of
effort and often take up a session or a noticeable
chunk of a single session to complete. Moderate
favors grant 2 Reputation Points.
 • Major favors are a sizable endeavor, typically an
entire quest involving several sessions. Major favors
grant 5 Reputation Points.
DISSERVICES
On the flip side, disservices are a catchall for ways the
PCs might make a group angry, whether it’s through
actual malice and planning on the PCs’ part or simply by
accident. Unlike favors, disservices don’t have as easy a
correspondence with in-game time; a quick but particularly
egregious action could easily still be a major disservice.
Disservices normally lose the PCs Reputation Points.
 • Minor disservices could be small but significant
missteps, or accumulated slights and inconveniences.
Minor disservices take away 1 Reputation Point.
 • Moderate disservices are more than just a nuisance
or annoyance, generally significantly hindering the
group’s efforts or violating a fundamental tenet of the
group’s beliefs in a significant but not egregious way.
Moderate disservices take away 2 Reputation Points.
 • Major disservices are incredibly antagonistic to a
group, usually a single brazen act, such as thwarting a
cabal’s apocalyptic doomsday plan. Major disservices
take away at least 5 Reputation Points, or more if they
are particularly egregious. They might be so terrible
that the PCs immediately lose all their Reputation
Points and then lose 5 more Reputation Points.
REPUTATIONS
PCs generally start with a reputation of “ignored” with
most groups, as most groups have never heard of them.
If they are particularly famous or infamous among related
groups, the PCs might start at a different reputation of
your choice. The reputation is generalized to the whole
group—an individual NPC can hold a different opinion.
IGNORED
The PCs either aren’t on this group’s radar or the group
knows about the PCs but is generally ambivalent to them.
This is the default for most PCs with most groups, and it
carries no special benefits or detriments.
LIKED
The PCs have gained this group’s favor. Many members
of the group know about the PCs, and those who do
are usually friendly to them. At this reputation, only
moderate and major favors accrue Reputation Points; it
takes more to impress the group further.
ADMIRED
The PCs have earned this group’s admiration. The majority
of the group knows about the PCs and have an extremely
favorable opinion toward them. Many members of the
group are helpful toward the PCs, and those who aren’t are
friendly. Only major favors accrue Reputation Points.
REVERED
The group reveres the PCs as heroes and celebrities. Every
member has heard of the PCs, is helpful toward them, and
TABLE 3–2: REPUTATIONS
Reputation
Reputation Points
Raised By
Lowered By
Revered
30 to 50
Major favor
Moderate or major disservice
Admired
15 to 29
Major favor
Any disservice
Liked
5 to 14
Moderate or major favor
Any disservice
Ignored
–4 to 4
Any favor
Any disservice
Disliked
–5 to –14
Any favor
Moderate or major disservice
Hated
–15 to –29
Any favor
Major disservice
Hunted
–30 to –50
Moderate or major favor
Major disservice
Gamemastery Guide
164
164
