CHAPTER 3: SUBSYSTEMS
When your game goes into uncharted territory or you want to emphasize an element of
gameplay that usually gets overlooked or condensed into a single check, you can use a
subsystem. As the name implies, subsystems are extensions of the main rules system that
allow you to explore a particular topic or style of play at your table.
Subsystems are a great way to add depth to aspects of your game that don’t occur in
combat but still have high stakes. This chapter begins with Victory Points, a structure
that underlies much of the chapter, to help you build your own subsystems. Next are
some of the most common subsystems you might need in your game, with advice on
how to use and modify them. This chapter is organized into the following sections.
• Victory Points (page 148) provides you a framework with which to build
your own subsystems, detailing the fundamental structure that Pathfinder
uses for its subsystems.
• Influence (page 151) gives rules for more in-depth social encounters involving
influencing NPCs.
• Research (page 154) shows you how to build an interesting structure for
scenes where PCs research information.
• Chases (page 156) are designed to represent the fast-paced feel of movie
chase scenes.
• Infiltration (page 160) allows you to build infiltrations and heists where
careful planning helps the PCs maintain an edge against their adversaries
and pull off incredible capers.
• Reputation (page 164) breathes life into the world around the PCs, as various
groups of NPCs react favorably or unfavorably to the PCs actions, and PCs’
status with those groups changes.
• Duels (page 166) provides a simple architecture for one-on-one showdowns
between adversaries.
• Leadership (page 168) allows PCs to attract people to a cause, giving them
cohorts and organizations to look after.
• Hexploration (page 170) teaches you how to build exploration maps on
a hexagonal grid to give your PCs the thrill of discovering secrets within
uncharted or unfamiliar territory.
• Vehicles (page 174) allows you to run encounters involving vehicles and capitalize
on their potential to help PCs explore on a larger scale and at a faster pace.
DECIDING TO USE A SUBSYSTEM
When you have an exciting subsystem available, it can be tempting to use it anytime
it can possibly come up (for instance, replacing every social scene with the influence
subsystem). However, subsystems are most effective when used with intention.
Subsystems are best when used for a component of the game that’s meant to be at least
a significant portion of a single session. Think about whether you want a different
style of play than normal before you decide to use a subsystem, since that’s what
subsystems are best suited for. You should avoid using a particular subsystem if many
members of your group don’t like it, or if use of a subsystem during play devolves into
the PCs making a series of rolls that don’t contribute to telling an interesting story.
It’s important to leave enough time and mental energy to make the subsystem
feel special and to bring all the components and elements of the subsystem to life
in the game world. A subsystem stripped of all its life and story depth can become
nothing more than a large number of die rolls, and the last thing you want is to lose
the magic, especially with a subsystem the PCs enjoy. Sometimes, a simple check
is the right way to handle the scene, and that’s okay! The subsystems will be there
when you need them to spice up an adventure or really dive deep into a particular
element or scene.
COMBINING SUBSYSTEMS
Some of the subsystems in
this chapter could interact in
interesting ways when combined.
For instance, the influence
subsystem could be part of how
you build up reputation, or a piece
of the plan in an infiltration. Or
you could have a hexploration
chase with a rival adventuring
group, encountering obstacles
in each hex as you race for the
prize—while using vehicles to
travel faster! Ultimately, it’s up to
you to decide how two combined
subsystems should interact to
tell your group’s particular story,
though a good rule of thumb is
to have a backdrop subsystem
that you’re tracking on a longer
term to which the shorter-term
subsystem contributes.
3
Subsystems
147
147
introduction
Gamemastery
Basics
Tools
Subsystems
Variant Rules
NPC Gallery
GLOSSARY
and INDEX
