Activate [two-actions] command, envision; Effect Your relic creates a
path from your shadow to a nearby one, teleporting you
and any items you’re wearing or holding from your current
space to an unoccupied one within 30 feet that you can
see. You can’t use the dark roads gift again for 1d4 rounds.
If the destination is not within an area of bright
light, the range is instead 60 feet. If this would bring
another creature with you—even if you’re carrying it
in an extradimensional container—the gift fails.
UMBRAL BODY
GRAND GIFT
SHADOW
TRANSMUTATION
Aspect shadow
Activate [two-actions] command, Interact; Effect Shadowy essence
infuses your body, and you can reshape wisps of yourself
into a variety of damaging shadows. This has the effect
of a 6th-level shadow blast, choosing from only
bludgeoning, slashing, or piercing damage. You can’t
use this activation again for 1d4 rounds.
WATER GIFTS
LASHING CURRENTS
MINOR GIFT
EVOCATION
WATER
Aspect water; Prerequisites The relic is a weapon.
Water collects at the tip of your relic. You can adjust your
grip on your relic with an Interact action to allow you to make
lashing current weapon Strikes with your relic, which deal 1d4
bludgeoning damage; have the disarm, finesse, reach 10, trip,
and versatile S traits; and are in the flail group. Your lashing
current Strikes gain the benefit of your relic’s fundamental
and property runes, though any property runes that would
not be applicable to the lashing currents are not applied. You
can use another Interact action to return to your normal grip
and make Strikes with the relic.
MONSOON CURTAIN
MINOR GIFT
AIR
CONJURATION
WATER
Aspect water
Activate [three-actions] command, envision;
Frequency once per day; Effect You
call down a curtain of violent rain in a
location within 120 feet. The wall is 5 feet
thick, 30 feet long, up to 30 feet high, and
lasts for 1 minute. The wall stands vertically,
but you can shape its path. The wall has the
following effects.
• If a fire effect crosses through the wall,
it either uses the outcome one degree of
success worse than the result of its attack
roll or its targets use the outcome one degree of
success better than the result of their saving throw, as
appropriate.
• Creatures with a weakness to water that cross the wall
or start their turn in the wall take damage equal to
their weakness.
• The wall imposes a –2 status penalty to Perception
checks to sense creatures or objects on the other side.
TIDAL CRASH
MINOR GIFT
EVOCATION
WATER
Aspect water
Activate [two-actions] command, envision; Frequency once per day;
Effect Your relic spews forth a dense sphere of water.
Make a spell attack roll against a target within 30 feet.
On a success, you deal 2d10 bludgeoning damage plus
2 bludgeoning splash damage. At 3rd level and every 2
levels thereafter, increase the initial damage by 1d10 and
the splash damage by 1.
BOTTOMLESS RESERVOIR
MAJOR GIFT
CONJURATION
EXTRADIMENSIONAL
WATER
Aspect water
Activate [one-action] Interact; Effect Your relic can absorb and
release water, storing it in a endless reservoir. You either
touch your relic to an adjacent body of water and absorb
1 gallon of it into the reservoir, or you release 1 gallon of a
liquid from the reservoir. You can add another action to the
activation to absorb water from a touched creature made
entirely of water, like a water elemental. If you do, it takes
1d6 damage per relic level (basic Fortitude save).
Activate [reaction] Interact; Trigger You are targeted by an acid
or water effect; Effect Your relic attempts to counteract
the effect, expending 1 gallon of stored liquid. At the GM’s
discretion, you can use this ability on effects made of other
liquids, such as blood.
FLOWING FOOTSTEPS
MAJOR GIFT
TRANSMUTATION
WATER
Aspect water
Your relic ensures no water impedes your movement. You gain
the effects of the water walk spell, and the ability to breathe
water. You also gain a swim Speed equal to your Speed or 15
feet, whichever is higher.
RIPPLES AND WAVES
GRAND GIFT
WATER
Aspect water
You become attuned to the ebb and
flow of all things. You gain wavesense
60 as a precise sense and can cast
5th-level hydraulic push at will as an
innate spell.
Activate [two-actions] command,
envision;
Frequency once per day; Effect Ankle-deep
water floods outward from you, filling a
60-foot emanation centered on you for 1 minute. Enemies
within the area without a swim Speed treat the area as
difficult terrain for movement on land. While the effect
persists, you can have any water effects you generate
originate from any point within the emanation, in addition
to their normal range and area.
2
Tools
105
105
introduction
Gamemastery
Basics
Tools
Subsystems
Variant Rules
NPC Gallery
GLOSSARY
and INDEX
