floods impose additional effects. The turbulent waters mean
creatures within the area of the flood must attempt a DC 20
Athletics check to Swim in order to move, and those who do
not succeed at a check to Swim each round may drown.
Critical Success The creature takes no damage.
Success The creature takes half damage.
Failure The creature takes full damage and is moved 10 feet
along with the water.
Critical Failure The creature takes double damage and is
moved 20 feet along with the water.
• Acidic Runoff This caustic flood dissolves flesh as it
moves, dealing 1d12 bludgeoning damage and 1d12+8 acid
damage. Additionally, it deals 2d6 persistent acid damage to
creatures who critically fail their Fortitude saves.
• Battering Waves This flood of rushing water deals 2d12+10
bludgeoning damage.
• Repulsive Refuse This flood has picked up tainted or
disease-ridden objects like sewer runoff or rotting food.
It deals 2d12+8 bludgeoning damage. Each creature
exposed to the flood must attempt a DC 29 Fortitude
save, becoming sickened 1 on a failure or sickened 2 on
a critical failure. Additionally, creatures who come into
contact with the flood waters are exposed to filth fever
(DC 20 Fortitude, Bestiary 258).
• Sharp Debris The waters have picked up various objects,
some of which are particularly sharp. The flood deals 1d12
bludgeoning damage and 1d12+12 piercing damage.
• Sticky Goo The substance is particularly sticky. It deals
2d12+6 bludgeoning damage. Additionally, each creature
in the flood must attempt a DC 29 Reflex save at the
beginning of their turn each round. On a failed saving
throw, they take a –10-foot circumstance penalty to all
their Speeds for 1 round. On a critical failure, they are
instead immobilized for 1 round.
FLENSING BLADES
HAZARD 12
COMPLEX HAUNT
Stealth +25 (expert)
Description A whirling tornado of spectrally propelled glass and
steel slices whatever it touches to ribbons.
Disable DC 35 Thievery (master) to precisely adjust the blades
so that they destroy each other, or DC 38 Religion (expert) to
weaken the haunt; four successes are required to disable it
AC 33; Fort +27, Ref +25, Will +22
Hardness 20; HP 100 (BT 50); Immunities critical hits, object
immunities, precision damage; Weaknesses positive 15
Whirling Blades [reaction] Trigger Three or more creatures enter
the area of the haunt; Effect sharp fragments lift up from
the ground and begin to spin in rapid circles taking up one
5-foot square. The haunt rolls initiative.
Routine (3 actions) The tornado of blades uses 3 actions to
move, traveling up to 30 feet with each action and dealing
2d10+10 slashing damage. Each creature in its path must
attempt a DC 33 Reflex save.
Critical Success The creature is unaffected.
Success The creature takes half damage.
Failure The creature takes full damage plus 1d10 persistent
bleed damage.
Critical Failure The creature takes double damage and 1d10
persistent bleed damage. It also becomes wounded 1 (or
increases its wounded value by 1, if it is already wounded).
Each successful check to disable this hazard reduces the
haunt’s movement by 30 feet, and the fourth success
disables it completely.
Reset The haunt draws jagged shards back into its area over the
course of an hour, after which it can trigger again.
DANCE OF DEATH
HAZARD 16
COMPLEX HAUNT
Stealth +32 (master)
Description An eerie orchestra compels all who hear it to dance
until they collapse from exhaustion.
Disable DC 42 Intimidation (expert) three times to frighten
dancers and spectral musicians alike away from participating
in the deadly performance, DC 40 Performance (master)
twice to produce a tune discordant enough to disrupt the
compulsion, or DC 42 Religion (master) three times to
banish the spirits with prayers
Prelude [reaction] (auditory, enchantment, incapacitation, occult)
Trigger A creature approaches within 30 feet of the
orchestra; Effect The orchestra compels all creatures that
can hear it to begin dancing. Each creature must attempt a
DC 41 Will save, with the following effects.
Critical Success The creature is unaffected.
Success The creature is flat-footed and cannot use
reactions. Additionally, it must spend 1 of its actions each
round dancing. Dancing is a move action that allows the
creature to Stride up to half its Speed.
Failure As success, except the creature must spend 2 of its
actions each round dancing.
Critical Failure As failure, except the creature must spend 3
of its actions each round dancing.
Routine (1 action; auditory, enchantment, incapacitation,
occult) The orchestra performs a raucous tune, compelling
all creatures that can hear it to spend actions dancing.
Each round, creature must attempt a DC 37 Will save; the
results of this save modify the number of actions that the
creature must spend dancing each round. If this would
cause the creature to spend more actions dancing than it
can use on its turn, the creature takes 10d6 damage (or
double that on a critical failure) from moving faster than
its body can manage.
Critical Success The creature decreases the number of
actions it must spend dancing by 1.
Success No effect.
Failure The creature increases the actions it must spend
dancing by 1.
Critical Failure The creature increases the actions it must
spend dancing by 2.
Reset The eerie orchestra spends an hour retuning its
phantasmal instruments, after which it is ready to begin its
routine again.
2
Tools
8181
introduction
Gamemastery
Basics
Tools
Subsystems
Variant Rules
NPC Gallery
GLOSSARY
and INDEX
