RUNNING ENCOUNTERS
Running engaging encounters can require you to track a lot of different information.
Knowing what details to prioritize can make encounters easier to run and more fun to play.
This section provides tips to help you run encounters
that are fast and entertaining to play. Though the
Core Rulebook discusses running encounters starting
on page 493, this section supplements that information.
Though this chapter contains detailed advice about many
topics, it’s important to remember that, as a GM, you
should primarily focus on the following tasks.
• Answering
questions
quickly
and
decisively
whenever possible.
• Building anticipation for what happens next.
• Emphasizing thrilling action and setting a rapid pace.
• Letting players know when they’re up, and preferably
when they’re “on deck” to go next.
• Showing the immediate consequences of actions.
If you’re interested in building on the topics in this section,
information on designing combat encounters appears on
page 46. Additionally, Chapter 3 presents subsystems used in
special types of encounters, such as the influence subsystem.
SPEED OF PLAY
Encounters should move quickly, giving the PCs just enough
time to savor successes and lament failures. This requires
effort from everyone, but you can make it easier by running
creatures and NPCs efficiently. First off, don’t worry
too much about little mistakes you make when running
encounters. If you forgot to apply a creature’s special bonus
or didn’t take an action that would have prevented the
creature from taking damage, it’s not a big deal. Keep an
eye on what you emphasize during the adventure, as well.
Be quick when describing a normal attack, but spend a
little more time on a critical hit or a big spell. This all boils
down to significance. It’s fine to slow down the game for
something important, but it’s best to move briskly through
anything less important. As you run the game, you’ll quickly
develop a sense for what’s significant and what’s not.
LOOKING UP RULES
One of the primary ways the game slows down is when you
or another player needs to look up a rule. For something
that isn’t too impactful, it’s better to just make a ruling on
the spot and move on. Tell the player they can look it up
when it’s not their turn, and you’ll play it as written after
that, but that the game needs to move on in the meantime.
It’s okay to look up something that’s both significant and
heavily rules-dependent, such as a spell description or the
death and dying rules. Even then, reciting a full chunk
of rules text can pull players out of the flow of play, so
summarize. It also helps to train your players to look
things up in advance if they think they’ll need them, so
they’re ready to go when their turns come around. This
can be tough as a GM, since it’s essentially always your
turn. However, you can ask a player to look something up
for you, or, if you need to pause long enough to reference
certain books, remind the players to plan for their next
turns while you’re busy.
REWINDING
Though “rewinding” can happen in any mode of play,
it’s usually most troublesome in encounters. Rewinding
happens when a player forgot to add in a certain bonus
or take a certain action, or wishes they had used their
actions in a different order, and wants to rewind to
account for what they missed. The best policy is usually
to let them rewind as needed within their own turn but
stop them before they intrude into someone else’s. This
keeps interruptions within reasonable bounds. You might
find some adjustments are easy enough to make outside
of a turn and can be allowed. For instance, if someone
forgot to add the fire damage from a flaming rune to one
of their hits, it’s pretty easy to reduce the monster’s HP on
another turn, but if they realized their attack missed only
because they forgot the bonus from bless, that could be too
much of an interruption. Your ruling should stand on such
matters. Try to be consistent about what kinds of things
you will rewind for and when.
COMPLEX ROLLS
You’ll often make multiple rolls at the same time, especially
when attempting saving throws for multiple creatures
against area or multi-target spells. This can sometimes take
a considerable amount of time if you’re resolving the result
of each creature’s save and then determining its degree of
success. To do so quickly, you could use one of the following
techniques. Each of the examples below uses a PC’s spell
as an example, but these recommendations also apply to
similar rolls that aren’t caused by spells.
• Get the PC’s Difficulty Class first, and have the
player roll damage while you roll the saving throws.
• Use separate colors of dice for the different types of
foes, or arrange the dice in such a way that it’s easier
for you to tell which creatures or NPCs are which.
• Go in order from the best enemy results (the highest
total) to the worst. This means you’ll need to ask for
the results on a success only once, the damage on a
failure once, and so on. It also means you only need
to figure out when you’re moving to a lower degree of
success, rather than recalculating them each time.
This can be more of a challenge when asking for PC
rolls. Make sure you get the attention of every player
whose PC is affected. Have them all roll but hold off on
Gamemastery Guide
1010
