SIMPLE HAZARDS
A simple hazard uses its reaction when triggered.
SHRIEKER
HAZARD –1
ENVIRONMENTAL
FUNGUS
Stealth DC 12
Description This human-sized purple mushroom emits a
piercing shriek when disturbed.
Disable DC 18 Survival to carefully approach and cut the
mushroom’s air sac without triggering the shrieker
AC 12; Fort +8, Ref +2
HP 9; Immunities critical hits, object immunities, precision damage
Shriek [reaction] Trigger A creature or light source approaches within
10 feet of the shrieker or the shrieker takes damage; Effect
The shrieker emits a deafening screech that deals 1d6 sonic
damage to creatures within 30 feet (DC 16 basic Fortitude
save; creatures that critically fail this saving throw are
deafened for 1 minute).
Reset 1 minute
SNOWFALL
HAZARD 0
ENVIRONMENTAL
Stealth DC 16 (trained)
Description Loose snow and ice have built up on a high surface,
such as a tree branch or a rooftop. Its grip on the surface is
tenuous, and it is likely to fall if the surface moves.
Disable DC 19 Survival (trained) to safely dislodge the snow,
or deal any amount of fire damage to destroy the hazard
without triggering it
AC 16; Fort +10, Ref +8
HP 8; Immunities critical hits, object immunities, precision damage
Snowdrop [reaction] Trigger A creature moves beneath where the
snowfall is resting; Effect Ice and snow fall on the triggering
creature, dealing 2d6+3 bludgeoning damage (DC 18 basic
Reflex save) and soaking their clothing. Until they change
into fresh clothing or spend at least an hour in an area of
normal or higher temperature, they treat cold environments
as one step colder (for example, mild cold as severe cold).
HAMPERING WEB
HAZARD 1
ENVIRONMENTAL
Stealth DC 18 (expert)
Description Semitransparent sheets of
webbing span the entryway, ready to
capture small insects or hamper larger
creatures that pass through.
Disable DC 17 Survival (trained) to dislodge it
AC 19; Fort +10, Ref +11
HP 26 (BT 13); Immunities critical hits, object
immunities, precision damage
Ensnare [reaction] Trigger A creature that isn’t a
spider walks into the web; Effect The web
wraps around the triggering creature’s body,
clinging to their limbs. The triggering creature
must succeed at a DC 20 Reflex save or take a –10-foot
circumstance penalty to all their Speeds until they Escape
the web (DC 20). On a critical failure, the webbing also clings
to the creature’s face, making them sickened 1, and they can’t
attempt to reduce this condition until they Escape the web.
BROWN MOLD
HAZARD 2
ENVIRONMENTAL
FUNGUS
Stealth DC 21 (trained)
Description This unassuming fungus leeches heat out of the air.
Disable DC 18 Survival (trained) to safely remove the mold
Emit Cold (aura, cold); 5 feet. Brown mold deals 2d6 cold
damage to nearby creatures.
AC 18; Fort +11 Ref +5
HP 30 (BT 15); Immunities critical hits, fire, object immunities,
precision damage; Weaknesses cold 10
Leech Warmth [reaction] Trigger Fire comes within 5 feet of the brown
mold; Effect The brown mold expands into every square
adjacent to its space. As it grows, it pulls more heat from
its surroundings, dealing 2d6+6 cold damage (DC 18 basic
Fortitude save) to creatures within 10 feet after it expands.
Reset After expanding, the brown mold can’t grow again for 1 day.
TREACHEROUS SCREE
HAZARD 3
ENVIRONMENTAL
Stealth DC 23 (trained)
Description The footing on this sloped ground appears to be
stable at first glance, but the tiny rocks that cover it are
loosely packed and prone to slipping.
Disable DC 20 Survival (trained) to navigate a safe path
Rockslide [reaction] Trigger A creature steps on the
unstable ground; Effect Rocks tumble and slip
beneath its feet. The triggering creature
must attempt a DC 21 Reflex save as
they tumble against the rocks, which
deal 2d10+13 bludgeoning damage.
2
Tools
77
77
introduction
Gamemastery
Basics
Tools
Subsystems
Variant Rules
NPC Gallery
GLOSSARY
and INDEX
