This product is compliant with the Open Game License (OGL) and is suitable for use with the Pathfinder
Roleplaying Game (Second Edition).
Product Identity: The following items are hereby identified as Product Identity, as defined in the Open
Game License version 1.0a, Section 1(e), and are not Open Game Content: All trademarks, registered
trademarks, proper nouns (characters, deities, locations, etc., as well as all adjectives, names, titles, and
descriptive terms derived from proper nouns), artworks, characters, dialogue, locations, organizations, plots,
storylines, and trade dress. (Elements that have previously been designated as Open Game Content, or are
exclusively derived from previous Open Game Content, or that are in the public domain are not included in
this declaration.)
Open Game Content: Except for material designated as Product Identity, the game mechanics of this Paizo
game product are Open Game Content, as defined in the Open Game License version 1.0a, Section 1(d). No
portion of this work other than the material designated as Open Game Content may be reproduced in any form
without written permission.
Pathfinder Gamemastery Guide © 2020, Paizo Inc. Paizo, the Paizo golem logo, Pathfinder, the Pathfinder logo,
Pathfinder Society, Starfinder, and the Starfinder logo are registered trademarks of Paizo Inc.; the Pathfinder
P logo, Pathfinder Accessories, Pathfinder Adventure Card Game, Pathfinder Adventure Card Society,
Pathfinder Adventure Path, Pathfinder Adventures, Pathfinder Battles, Pathfinder Cards, Pathfinder Combat
Pad, Pathfinder Flip-Mat, Pathfinder Flip-Tiles, Pathfinder Legends, Pathfinder Lost Omens, Pathfinder Pawns,
Pathfinder Roleplaying Game, Pathfinder Tales, Starfinder Adventure Path, Starfinder Combat Pad, Starfinder
Flip-Mat, Starfinder Pawns, Starfinder Roleplaying Game, and Starfinder Society are trademarks of Paizo Inc.
Printed in China.
OPEN GAME LICENSE Version 1.0a
The following text is the property of Wizards of the Coast, Inc. and is Copyright 2000 Wizards of the Coast, Inc.
(“Wizards”). All Rights Reserved.
1. Definitions: (a) “Contributors” means the copyright and/or trademark owners who have contributed Open Game
Content; (b) “Derivative Material” means copyrighted material including derivative works and translations (including
into other computer languages), potation, modification, correction, addition, extension, upgrade, improvement,
compilation, abridgment or other form in which an existing work may be recast, transformed or adapted; (c)
“Distribute” means to reproduce, license, rent, lease, sell, broadcast, publicly display, transmit or otherwise distribute;
(d) “Open Game Content” means the game mechanic and includes the methods, procedures, processes and routines
to the extent such content does not embody the Product Identity and is an enhancement over the prior art and any
additional content clearly identified as Open Game Content by the Contributor, and means any work covered by this
License, including translations and derivative works under copyright law, but specifically excludes Product Identity.
(e) “Product Identity” means product and product line names, logos and identifying marks including trade dress;
artifacts, creatures, characters, stories, storylines, plots, thematic elements, dialogue, incidents, language, artwork,
symbols, designs, depictions, likenesses, formats, poses, concepts, themes and graphic, photographic and other visual
or audio representations; names and descriptions of characters, spells, enchantments, personalities, teams, personas,
likenesses and special abilities; places, locations, environments, creatures, equipment, magical or supernatural abilities
or effects, logos, symbols, or graphic designs; and any other trademark or registered trademark clearly identified as
Product identity by the owner of the Product Identity, and which specifically excludes the Open Game Content; (f)
“Trademark” means the logos, names, mark, sign, motto, designs that are used by a Contributor to identify itself or
its products or the associated products contributed to the Open Game License by the Contributor (g) “Use”, “Used”
or “Using” means to use, Distribute, copy, edit, format, modify, translate and otherwise create Derivative Material of
Open Game Content. (h) “You” or “Your” means the licensee in terms of this agreement.
2. The License: This License applies to any Open Game Content that contains a notice indicating that the Open
Game Content may only be Used under and in terms of this License. You must affix such a notice to any Open Game
Content that you Use. No terms may be added to or subtracted from this License except as described by the License
itself. No other terms or conditions may be applied to any Open Game Content distributed using this License.
3. Offer and Acceptance: By Using the Open Game Content You indicate Your acceptance of the terms of
this License.
4. Grant and Consideration: In consideration for agreeing to use this License, the Contributors grant You a
perpetual, worldwide, royalty-free, non-exclusive license with the exact terms of this License to Use, the Open
Game Content.
5. Representation of Authority to Contribute: If You are contributing original material as Open Game Content,
You represent that Your Contributions are Your original creation and/or You have sufficient rights to grant the rights
conveyed by this License.
6. Notice of License Copyright: You must update the COPYRIGHT NOTICE portion of this License to include the
exact text of the COPYRIGHT NOTICE of any Open Game Content You are copying, modifying or distributing, and You
must add the title, the copyright date, and the copyright holder’s name to the COPYRIGHT NOTICE of any original
Open Game Content you Distribute.
7. Use of Product Identity: You agree not to Use any Product Identity, including as an indication as to
compatibility, except as expressly licensed in another, independent Agreement with the owner of each element of
that Product Identity. You agree not to indicate compatibility or co-adaptability with any Trademark or Registered
Trademark in conjunction with a work containing Open Game Content except as expressly licensed in another,
independent Agreement with the owner of such Trademark or Registered Trademark. The use of any Product Identity
in Open Game Content does not constitute a challenge to the ownership of that Product Identity. The owner of any
Product Identity used in Open Game Content shall retain all rights, title and interest in and to that Product Identity.
8. Identification: If you distribute Open Game Content You must clearly indicate which portions of the work that
you are distributing are Open Game Content.
9. Updating the License: Wizards or its designated Agents may publish updated versions of this License. You
may use any authorized version of this License to copy, modify and distribute any Open Game Content originally
distributed under any version of this License.
10. Copy of this License: You MUST include a copy of this License with every copy of the Open Game Content
You distribute.
11. Use of Contributor Credits: You may not market or advertise the Open Game Content using the name of any
Contributor unless You have written permission from the Contributor to do so.
12. Inability to Comply: If it is impossible for You to comply with any of the terms of this License with respect to
some or all of the Open Game Content due to statute, judicial order, or governmental regulation then You may not Use
any Open Game Material so affected.
13. Termination: This License will terminate automatically if You fail to comply with all terms herein and fail to
cure such breach within 30 days of becoming aware of the breach. All sublicenses shall survive the termination of
this License.
14. Reformation: If any provision of this License is held to be unenforceable, such provision shall be reformed only
to the extent necessary to make it enforceable.
15. COPYRIGHT NOTICE
Open Game License v 1.0a © 2000, Wizards of the Coast, Inc.
System Reference Document © 2000, Wizards of the Coast, Inc; Authors: Jonathan Tweet, Monte Cook, Skip
Williams, based on material by E. Gary Gygax and Dave Arneson.
The Book of Fiends © 2003, Green Ronin Publishing; Authors: Aaron Loeb, Erik Mona, Chris Pramas, and Robert
J. Schwalb.
Armies of the Abyss © 2002, Green Ronin Publishing; Authors: Erik Mona and Chris Pramas.
The Avatar’s Handbook © 2003, Green Ronin Publishing; Authors: Jesse Decker and Chris Thomasson.
Book of the Righteous © 2002, Aaron Loeb.
Legions of Hell © 2001, Green Ronin Publishing; Author: Chris Pramas.
The Unholy Warrior’s Handbook © 2003, Green Ronin Publishing; Author: Robert J. Schwalb.
Pathfinder Core Rulebook (Second Edition) © 2019, Paizo Inc.; Authors: Logan Bonner, Jason Bulmahn, Stephen
Radney-MacFarland, and Mark Seifter.
Genie, Marid from the Tome of Horrors Complete © 2011, Necromancer Games, Inc., published and distributed by
Frog God Games; Author: Scott Greene, based on original material by Gary Gygax.
Pathfinder Gamemastery Guide © 2020, Paizo Inc.; Authors: Alexander Augunas, Jesse Benner, John Bennett,
Logan Bonner, Clinton J. Boomer, Jason Bulmahn, James Case, Paris Crenshaw, Jesse Decker, Robert N. Emerson, Eleanor
Ferron, Jaym Gates, Matthew Goetz, T.H. Gulliver, Kev Hamilton, Sasha Laranoa Harving, BJ Hensley, Vanessa Hoskins,
Brian R. James, Jason LeMaitre, Lyz Liddell, Luis Loza, Colm Lundberg, Ron Lundeen, Stephen Radney-MacFarland,
Jessica Redekop, Alistair Rigg, Mark Seifter, Owen K.C. Stephens, Amber Stewart, Christina Stiles, Landon Winkler,
and Linda Zayas-Palmer.
PAIZO INC.
Creative Directors • James Jacobs, Robert G. McCreary, and Sarah E. Robinson
Director of Game Design • Jason Bulmahn
Managing Developers • Adam Daigle and Amanda Hamon
Organized Play Lead Developer • Linda Zayas-Palmer
Developers • Eleanor Ferron, Jason Keeley, Luis Loza, Ron Lundeen, Patrick Renie,
Michael Sayre, and Jason Tondro
Starfinder Lead Designer • Joe Pasini
Starfinder Senior Developer • John Compton
Starfinder Society Developer • Thurston Hillman
Designers • Logan Bonner, Lyz Liddell, and Mark Seifter
Managing Editor • Judy Bauer
Editors • James Case, Leo Glass, Avi Kool, Adrian Ng, and Lu Pellazar
Art Directors • Kent Hamilton and Sonja Morris
Senior Graphic Designers • Emily Crowell and Adam Vick
Production Artist • Tony Barnett
Franchise Manager • Mark Moreland
Paizo CEO • Lisa Stevens
Chief Creative Officer • Erik Mona
Chief Financial Officer • John Parrish
Chief Operations Officer • Jeffrey Alvarez
Chief Technical Officer • Vic Wertz
Program Manager • Glenn Elliott
Director of Sales • Pierce Watters
Sales Associate • Cosmo Eisele
Vice President of Marketing & Licensing • Jim Butler
Public Relations Manager • Aaron Shanks
Social Media Producer • Payton Smith
Customer Service & Community Manager • Sara Marie
Operations Manager • Will Chase
Organized Play Manager • Tonya Woldridge
Human Resources Generalist • Angi Hodgson
Accountant • William Jorenby
Data Entry Clerk • B. Scott Keim
Director of Technology • Raimi Kong
Senior Software Developer • Gary Teter
Webstore Coordinator • Katina Davis
Customer Service Team • Joan Hong, Virginia Jordan, Samantha Phelan, and
Diego Valdez
Warehouse Team • Laura Wilkes Carey, Mika Hawkins, Heather Payne, Jeff Strand, and
Kevin Underwood
Website Team • Brian Bauman, Robert Brandenburg, Whitney Chatterjee, Erik Keith,
Josh Thornton, and Andrew White
unbounded (trait) Planes with this trait loop back on
themselves when a creature reaches the plane’s edge. 136
unexpected difficulty 16
urchin (NPC) 215
vehicle Vehicles are various means of transportation,
often with specific purposes, that come into play during
encounters and exploration. 174
velstrac Horrific fiends residing on the Shadow Plane who seek
ultimate sensation and perfection through self-mutilation. 141
Victory Points (VP) A flexible point-based subsystem for
tracking progress toward a goal. 148
village (trait) Settlements with this trait tend to be small and
usually have a level no higher than 1. 134
villains
 in NPC gallery 246
 motivations 47
 recurring 37
virulent (trait) Afflictions with the virulent trait are harder
to remove. You must succeed at two consecutive saves to
reduce a virulent affliction’s stage by 1. A critical success
reduces a virulent affliction’s stage by only 1 instead of
by 2.
warden (NPC) 225
watch officer (NPC) 234
water (trait) Planes with this trait are mostly liquid, perhaps
with pockets of breathable air. 137
worldbuilding Creating a campaign setting of your own
design. 122
zealot of Asmodeus (NPC) 213
Glossary and index
255
255
introduction
Gamemastery
Basics
Tools
Subsystems
Variant Rules
NPC Gallery
GLOSSARY
and INDEX
