hand, is dedicated study that might require a teacher’s
help. You don’t have to use teachers, but it gives you
a great way to introduce a new NPC or bring back an
existing one in a new role. The role of a teacher could
also be filled by communing with nature for a druid,
poring through a massive grimoire for a wizard, and so
on. The important part is the guidance gained from that
source. The following list includes sample teachers.
• Archwizard Koda Mohanz, wizard academy proctor
• Bagra Redforge, aged artisan
• Baroness Ivestia II, tutor in etiquette and social
maneuvering
• Byren Effestos, Esquire, advisor in matters of law,
politics, and finance
• Dr. Phinella Albor, professor of medicine and surgery
• Dr. Revis Enzerrad, mystic versed in the occult
• Grita the Swamp Sage, purveyor of strange draughts
and cryptic riddles
• Jeballewn Leastfire, tutor in alchemical experimentation
• Kpunde Neverlost, retired veteran adventurer
• Lyra, teller of legends and master of handicrafts
• Major Venaeus, instructor of military tactics
• Mother Elizia, high priest and religious scholar
• Professor Kurid Yamarrupan, senior university lector
• Quintari Solvar, coach for fitness and healthy living
• Ragged Sanden, hermit and speaker for nature
• Silent Flame, Master of the Seventeen Forms
• Tembly the Daring, veteran acrobat and circus
performer
• Twelve Fingers, experienced thief and spy
• Wen Hardfoot, well-traveled scout and naturalist
• Zuleri Gan, conductor, playwright, and music scholar
EXTREME RETRAINING
By the default rules, PCs can’t retrain their class,
ancestry, background, ability boosts, or anything else
intrinsic to their character. However, you might be able
to find a way to make this happen in the story, going
beyond the realm of retraining and into deeper, story-
based quests. Class and ability modifiers are the simplest
of these to justify, as they could come about solely through
intense retraining. Especially at low levels, you might let a
player rebuild their character as a different class, perhaps
starting by retraining into a multiclass dedication for
their new class and swapping into more feats from that
dedication as partial progress towards the class change.
Just be mindful that they aren’t swapping over to switch
out a class they think is great at low levels for one
they think is stronger at high levels. Retraining
a class or ability scores should take a long time,
typically months or years.
Changing an ancestry or heritage
requires some kind of magic, such as
reincarnation into a new form.
This might take a complex
ritual, exposure to bizarre and
rare magic, or the intervention of a deity. For instance,
you might require an elf who wants to be a halfling to
first become trained in Halfling Lore, worship the halfling
pantheon, and eventually do a great service for halflings to
get a divine blessing of transformation.
Retraining a background requires altering the game’s
story so that the events the PC thought happened didn’t.
That can be pretty tricky to justify! The most likely
scenario is that they had their memory altered and
need to get it magically restored to reveal their “true”
background—the new retrained background.
Of course, in all these cases you could make an
exception and just let the player make the change without
explanation. This effectively acknowledges that you’re
playing a game, and don’t need an in-world justification
for certain changes. For some groups it might be easier,
or require less suspension of disbelief, to ask
the group to adjust their ideas of what’s
previously happened in the game than to
accept something like an elf turning into a
halfling via magic.
1
Gamemastery Basics
27
27
introduction
Gamemastery
Basics
Tools
Subsystems
Variant Rules
NPC Gallery
GLOSSARY
and INDEX
