Cursed items are almost never made intentionally; even
those who set out to curse an item find the task incredibly
difficult or even impossible. These items are the results
of magical mishaps, shoddy crafting, or sinister forces
interfering with the creation. Many specify how
their curses work, but curses are fickle, and you
as the GM determine how curses play out in
your game. Due to these factors, an item with
the cursed trait is always rare.
Identifying Cursed Items: Cursed
items often appear to be ordinary
magical items, as the magic that
warps their function also disguises
their curses from detection. Unless
you roll a critical success when
Identifying a cursed item, it simply
appears as something helpful or
benign. A critical success reveals
both the presence of the curse and the
exact nature of the curse.
Removing Cursed Items: Many cursed
items can’t be discarded. Some use magic to
fuse to the wielder, making it impossible to remove the
item, while others attune to their owner and return even
if discarded. (This section uses the term “fuse” to describe
either situation.) In many cases, this feature reveals itself
only after the cursed item has been triggered for the first
time or after investing the item for the first time, allowing
the user to develop a false sense of security. Fused cursed
items can be removed by targeting the item’s owner
with a remove curse spell or similar magic. If the spell
is successful, the item can be discarded, but nothing
prevents the item from cursing the same creature again
if the conditions are met, so it’s best to dispose of the
item quickly. Invested cursed items that can’t be removed
continue to count against a character’s invested items,
even without reinvesting them each day.
SPECIFIC CURSED ITEMS
The following are a few examples of cursed items.
BAG OF DEVOURING
ITEM 7+
RARE
CONJURATION
CURSED
EXTRADIMENSIONAL
MAGICAL
Usage held in 2 hands; Bulk 1
This item appears to be and functions as a bag of holding,
but is actually a feeding orifice of a bizarre extradimensional
creature. Any animal or vegetable matter put in the bag has a
chance of triggering the bag’s interest. Whenever you reach
into the bag to retrieve an item or place an animal or plant
CURSED ITEMS
While magical items can be potent weapons in any adventurer’s arsenal, magic can be
unpredictable and is not always benign. Cursed items are unusual magical creations that
have a malicious effect on the unwary and can force its wielders into difficult choices.
(or animal or plant product) within the bag, roll a DC 9 flat
check. On a success, the bag ignores the intrusion. On a failure,
the bag devours the triggering material, removing it from this
realm of existence; the bag can’t eat artifacts or other similarly
hard-to-destroy items. If the triggering material is
not entirely inside of the bag, such as when someone
reaches a hand inside, the bag of devouring attempts
to pull it completely inside the bag using a Grapple
action, with an Athletics bonus determined
by the type of bag. On a success, it devours
the victim or object entirely.
Type I; Level 7; Athletics Bonus +15; acts as
a type II bag of holding
Type II; Level 11; Athletics Bonus +21; acts
as a type III bag of holding
Type III; Level 13; Athletics Bonus +24;
acts as a type IV bag of holding
BAG OF WEASELS
ITEM 4
RARE CONJURATION CURSED
EXTRADIMENSIONAL
MAGICAL
Usage held in 2 hands; Bulk 1
This item appears to be and functions as a type I
bag of holding, until you try to retrieve an item from the bag.
Whenever you retrieve an item from the bag of weasels, roll
a DC 11 flat check. On a success, you retrieve the item as
normal. On a failure, the item you retrieve is transformed into
a weasel; this doesn’t affect artifacts, cursed items, or other
hard-to-destroy items.
This weasel has the statistics of a giant rat (Pathfinder
Bestiary 276), except that it is Tiny and exudes an aura of
transmutation magic. The weasel has no loyalty to you and
typically attempts to escape as quickly as possible. If the
weasel is targeted with a remove curse spell or a similar
magical effect, it transforms back into the original item that
was taken from the bag of weasels. If it dies or is slain, the
weasel disappears and the item is permanently destroyed.
Because the weasel is a transformed item, you don’t gain any
benefit you would receive from attacking a creature, defeating
one, damaging one, or the like, but you do gain any benefit
you would gain from destroying an item.
BOOTS OF DANCING
ITEM 11
RARE
CURSED
ENCHANTMENT
INVESTED
MAGICAL
Usage worn shoes; Bulk L
These boots act as greater boots of elvenkind, but they react
wildly to strong physical exertion. While you wear the boots,
the curse activates whenever you attempt an Athletics check
or Stride more than once in a single round during an encounter.
The boots cast an 8th-level uncontrollable dance spell on you,
BAG OF DEVOURING
Gamemastery Guide
90
90
