CAMPAIGN STRUCTURE
Each adventure presents one contained story, but your campaign tells a more expansive
one. Think of each adventure like an episode or arc and the campaign as a whole series.
Though each adventure might tell a vastly different story, they should all tie into the
themes and characters that stretch across the whole campaign.
A campaign interweaves multiple stories: the events of
each adventure, the personal triumphs and failures of
each PC, and the stories of NPCs who appear throughout.
That means a campaign can become more than the sum
of its parts. When you start out, you’ll likely have a core
structure in mind for your campaign, but through play it
can—and should—grow and evolve.
BASIC STRUCTURES
When building your campaign, you can use these structures
as a starting point. The Adventure Design section explains
various styles of adventures on pages 41–43 that, after
creating your basic campaign structure, can be used to
inspire the creation of the adventures in your campaign.
ONE-SHOT
An adventure lasting one session, a one-shot works well for a
highly themed adventure using characters or concepts that are
novel, but that players might not want to stick with long-term.
Adventures 1, typically a dungeon crawl, horror, intrigue, or
mystery
Top Level 1, but often starts at a higher level
Time Frame 1 session
BRIEF CAMPAIGN
This structure is meant for a brief, self-contained campaign. It
can be ideal for introducing new players to Pathfinder, and can
be extended to a longer campaign if the group wishes.
Adventures 2, typically one dungeon crawl followed by one high
adventure; this format also works well for horror adventures
Top Level 4–5
Time Frame 3 months weekly, 6 months biweekly
EXTENDED CAMPAIGN
An extended campaign works well for a dedicated group that
might want to switch to a new campaign or a different game
after a year or so. It allows for significant character and plot
development but doesn’t reach the higher levels of the game.
Adventures 5, typically with multiple adventures fitting the
main theme of the campaign (such as high adventure or
gritty adventure), with other adventure styles for variety.
Top Level 11–13
Time Frame 1 year weekly, 1-1/2 years biweekly
EPIC CAMPAIGN
An ambitious and complex game, the epic campaign takes PCs
all the way to level 20, pitting them against the greatest threats
in the world and beyond. This can be challenging in terms of
time commitment and complexity, but it lets PCs develop into
true legends, and the players will likely remember it for years.
Adventures 6 long adventures, typically starting with high
adventure or a dungeon crawl and including military
adventure, planar adventure, and romantic adventure
Top Level 20
Time Frame 1-1/2 years weekly, 3 years biweekly
LINKING ADVENTURES
In a campaign that includes multiple adventures, a smooth
transition from one adventure to the next ties the story
together. You might use NPCs who could appear in both
adventures, a treasure or clue found in one adventure
that becomes important in a later one, or even fallout
from one adventure that causes the next adventure to
take place. Related locations can help, too. Adventures
that take place in neighboring regions, or both in the
same region, have an inherent link. If they take place in
two different places, you’ll need a reason the PCs should
travel between the two, and you can use this journey as a
short, interstitial adventure.
ADVENTURE THEMES
Consider how each adventure’s theme plays into the
campaign as a whole. You might want to keep similar or
recurring themes, especially if each adventure is part of
one overarching storyline. On the other hand, this can
feel repetitive, and some groups prefer variety and seeing
their characters play off of different situations. To convey
shifting themes, you can show established parts of the
world changing to reflect the new theme. For instance, if
you’re switching from an adventure about subjugation to
one of mayhem, the PCs could take down a villain who
wants to enslave the populace, but then face opportunistic
brigands who loot and pillage once order breaks down.
PLAYER GOALS
Ask what you and the other players enjoy and would like
to see in the game. You can use these ideas as touchstones
to build off of. When you get into the campaign itself,
the PCs’ goals come to the forefront. Find out what each
character wants to achieve and look for opportunities you
can place in the game world and adventures. Consider
which part of the game most closely ties to each goal. A
PC who wants to build an institution will need money
and interpersonal connections, so you can use treasure
Gamemastery Guide
36
36
