their shortcomings. The DC to Swim underwater shouldn’t
be very high—typically 15, or 13 in calm water.
When someone gets knocked out underwater, they usually
float up or sink down. You decide based on their buoyancy;
most adventurers carry a heavy enough load to sink.
When one group is in water and another outside it,
note that the aquatic combat rules for attacks apply when
either party is in water. You might judge that a character
in the water is concealed against someone outside it due to
distortion, and vice versa.
UNEXPECTED DIFFICULTY
What do you do when an encounter ends up being far more
or less challenging than you anticipated? If the encounter
is unlikely to kill all the characters, it might be best to roll
with it, unless the fight is so frustrating that no one really
wants to continue it. If it is likely to kill everyone, strongly
consider ways to end the encounter differently. The villain
might offer the PCs the chance to surrender, consider
their task complete and leave, or use their advantage to
get something else they want. If the worst does happen,
suggestions for dealing with a total party kill can be found
on page 30.
If a battle is too easy, it’s often best to let the players
enjoy their dominance. However, if you intended this to be
a centerpiece battle, that might feel anticlimactic. Look for
ways the enemy might escape or bring in reinforcements, but
the PCs’ success should still matter. Make sure the PCs feel
the enemy’s desperation—possibly have the enemy sacrifice
something important to them to secure their escape.
In both these cases, consider whether the discrepancy
from your expectations is due to luck. One side benefiting
from extreme luck is to be expected from time to time.
However, if the challenge comes down to a factor you had
control over as a GM—like unfavorable terrain making
things hard for the PCs or a monster with an overpowered
ability—it’s more likely you should make adjustments.
SOCIAL ENCOUNTERS
Sometimes you’ll want to run a social conflict in encounter
mode. The basic guidelines on how to do so appear on
page 494 of the Core Rulebook, and this section expands
on them with additional advice and examples. Social
encounters still require opposition—typically an adversary
arguing against you, but sometimes institutional opposition
or strongly held beliefs. It’s important to note that some
NPCs are much more adept at certain types of social
encounters than at combat. You can find guidelines on
creating such NPCs on pages 72–73, and some examples
in the NPC Gallery chapter. The Core Rulebook suggests
a few means of measuring success and progress in social
encounters. If you want something more detailed, look
at Victory Points on page 148 of this book, or the more
specific rules for Influence on page 151.
As noted in the Core Rulebook, social encounters don’t
usually use 6-second rounds. The time scale you use can
be flexible. Usually, you’ll want a participant to go on just
long enough to make one salient point and attempt one
check before moving to the next character in the initiative
order. Be flexible and encouraging as you run a social
encounter, and don’t worry about nitty-gritty details like
character movement except in extreme cases. Allow the
PCs to share information about as freely as the players
can around the table. If one character is watching the
opponent for signs they’re lying, assume they can easily
convey that to other characters subtly. It’s good to remind
players of things their characters might know or be likely
to notice even if the players, in the moment, don’t have
them in mind. Describe NPCs’ mental states and ask for
clarification about the PCs’ attitudes when needed. The
following list describes various types of social encounters
that PCs may find themselves in.
• Besting a rival bard in a battle of wits
• Brokering peace between warring groups
• Convincing a dragon not to eat the party
• Convincing a monarch to defend against an invasion
• Disproving a rival’s scientific theories before an
alchemists’ guild assembly
• Ending a tense standoff
• Exposing a slippery villain’s deception before a court
of nobles
• Getting a desperate criminal to free a hostage
• Persuading a clan to trust their ancient rivals
• Petitioning for admittance to a magical academy
• Proving someone’s innocence in front of a judge
• Securing a major contract over a rival
• Quelling an angry mob
• Swaying a fallen priest to return to the faith
• Tricking a charlatan into contradicting their past lies
• Turning a leader against their corrupted advisor
• Turning a low-ranking cultists against their leader
• Urging a lawmaker to grant clemency or a stay of
execution
• Wining a debate about a contentious topic
THREATS IN PUBLISHED ADVENTURES
When you reach an encounter in a published adventure, it
will give you an indication of the expected party level and
what threat the encounter is for that level of party, such
as “moderate 3” for an encounter that’s a moderate threat
to a 3rd-level party. If your party reaches the encounter
at a different level, you could recalculate the XP for each
enemy individually, or you can estimate the threat posed by
adjusting a step down or up per level difference. For example,
the moderate 3 encounter would be severe 2, extreme 1, low
4, or trivial 5. If you still think the group can take it on as-is,
you can use that estimation for determining XP, maybe
giving a little extra if it ended up being tougher than you
expected. Or, if you think it would be better, you can adapt
the particulars of the encounter to be a more reasonable
challenge to your party, usually by adjusting the number of
monsters or using the elite and weak adjustments.
Gamemastery Guide
1616
