you could give the creature a tool to counter every kind of
PC attack or trick, remember that the players chose those
options to enjoy using them, rather than to be constantly
foiled by an effectively invincible creature.
RITUALS
Since rituals happen during downtime, giving them to
a creature is usually a purely thematic choice. You can
skip even looking at rituals in most cases. If you decide a
creature needs to have a ritual for your story, add in the
ritual whenever you need it.
DESIGN ABILITIES
In this step, you’ll take the ideas for abilities you noted when
you developed your concept and design these abilities for
your creature. You can look at existing creature abilities
from the Bestiary and feats from the Core Rulebook and
use them as is or modify them to fit your needs.
When choosing abilities, think about both the number
of abilities and the diversity of abilities. Having a large
number of similar abilities can make the creature tougher to
run, and it probably can’t use them all anyway. Diversity of
abilities gives the creature different ways to act in different
situations, and helps guide you as the GM. For instance, a
combat creature might have one ability it uses to get into
position, another to use when it wants to focus damage on
a single enemy, and a third that’s more defensive.
BASICS OF ABILITY DESIGN
There are a few principles of ability construction that you’ll
want to keep in mind. Some guidance for specific types of
abilities will come later, but these apply to everything.
• Respect the action economy.
• Make sure abilities are level appropriate.
• Avoid “invisible” abilities.
Action Economy
Understanding a creature’s action economy is
key for making it work in play. Remember how
short the lifespan of a typical combat creature
is. Including a bunch of combat abilities might
mean you spend time building actions the
creature will never have time to use. Narrow
your selections down to the smallest and most
compelling set that makes sense. Also keep in
mind that special actions will compete for time
with any combat spells you gave the creature.
Reactions can help, giving the creature a way to act
when it’s not its turn. See Reactive Abilities on page 69 for
advice on designing these tricky abilities.
Because of PC capabilities at higher levels, creatures
at those levels should get more abilities that improve
their action economy. For instance, creatures that grapple
should have Improved Grab instead of Grab, Speeds
should be higher, and many abilities that would have cost
an action at a lower level should be free actions.
FOCUS SPELLS
Some creatures have focus spells, especially when those focus
spells clearly fit a creature’s theme. Simply give the creature the
focus spells you like and between 1 and 3 Focus Points (you
can also allow your creature to cast focus spells using spell
slots). Use the same DC and spell attack roll as any other spell.
A creature that has just 1 Focus Point is likely to cast a focus
spell only once, unless it’s a recurring enemy. If the creature has
plenty of spells already, you might want to skip focus spells
altogether, as they aren’t as strong as top-level spell slots.
LEvEL AppropriAtEnEss
The effects of an ability should be appropriate to the
creature’s level. For damaging abilities, that means they
follow the damage guidelines on page 68. For others, take a
look at spells and feats with a similar effect to see if they’re
level appropriate. For instance, say you’re considering
giving a 6th-level creature the ability to teleport a short
distance. Dimension door is comparable—that’s a 4th-level
spell, normally cast by a 7th-level or higher creature. That
means 6th level probably isn’t too low, but the creature
shouldn’t be able to use the ability more than once. You
can also compare your creature to those in a Bestiary
volume to see if the special abilities seem similar in power
to those of other creatures of the same level.
2
Tools
67
67
introduction
Gamemastery
Basics
Tools
Subsystems
Variant Rules
NPC Gallery
GLOSSARY
and INDEX
