DUELS
Sometimes conflicts become personal. It’s not the entire group against a challenge, but one
character struggling against the skills of a single adversary. In many societies, duels are
considered a reasonable way to resolve individual differences, though others consider such
practices—especially the more deadly varieties—to be a savage affront to law and order.
Duels can come in several forms, and this section gives you rules to run them.
SETTING UP A DUEL
Participants must willingly agree to the duel and to abide
by its rules. If one of the duelists breaks the duel’s rules
(and, more importantly, is caught doing so), that duelist
loses, taking any penalties agreed upon when the challenge
was accepted. Here are some sample dueling rules.
COMPETE ALONE
It’s customary that each participant must compete
alone and may receive no help from outside sources.
However, some duels pit pairs of combatants against
one another (either all together or as tag teams).
LIMITED TOOLS
The participants agree to the tools, including weapons
and magic items, before the duel starts. Most combat
duels that don’t involve magic limit participants to
melee weapons and prohibit the use of poison. Some duels
forbid the use of polearms and other reach weapons. A
spellcasting duel might agree upon a roughly equal number
of magic items, and a cap on the power (in game terms, the
level) of the items. Some spellcasting duels might prohibit
certain types of spells, such as summoning or necromancy.
DURATION
Combat duels typically last either until first blood (hitting
and dealing damage) or until one of the duelists is knocked
out. Most duels allow a participant to yield, which means
they concede victory to their opponent, though sometimes
this could diminish their social standing. Duels of talent
usually involve several equal turns in which the duelists
display their ability.
ADJUDICATION
Most duels are overseen by a third party who ensures the
duelists don’t break the duel’s rules—inadvertently or by
cheating. Where duels are legal, this is typically a constable
or magistrate. In other places, a cleric or other respected
figure serves as judge. Typically the GM plays the judge.
COMBAT DUELS
Unlike the other subsystems in this chapter, a combat duel
works almost the same as a normal combat encounter,
with a few exceptions. These rules require exceptional
focus between two duelists and a third-party arbiter, and
thus are not available in a normal combat.
Gamemastery Guide
166
166
