rider uses the same number of actions to ask the creature
to do what they want. As the GM, you determine whether
the creature does as requested and whether Diplomacy
checks or the like are needed. It’s recommended you
disallow humanoid creatures and most other bipeds as
mounts, especially if they are PCs. If you choose to allow
this anyway, either the rider or mount should use at least
one hand to hold onto the other, and both should spend an
action on each of their turns to remain mounted.
AERIAL COMBAT
Determining positioning in the air can be tricky, and
it’s often best to be more relaxed with movement rules,
flanking, and so forth than you would be on a flat grid.
Note that battles can get more spread out with flight. If
any creature is flying, it’s important to establish the height
of potential obstacles in the area early. This way, no one’s
surprised to suddenly find out the ceiling is lower than they
thought or tall trees create a barrier. Be careful about using
aerial combat before PCs have magic that lets them fly. Be
especially careful with flying foes who use ranged attacks,
because PCs might have few good tools to fight them.
The rules for flight say that a creature might need to
attempt an Acrobatics check to Maneuver in Flight to
pull off tricky maneuvers. You can generally use the same
judgment you would for calling for Acrobatics checks
when someone’s moving on the ground. Trying to dive
through a narrow space, make a sharp turn, or the like
might require checks, usually with a simple DC.
Falls can be deadly, and often happen when fly or a
similar spell gets dispelled. This is part of the risk of
flying! Flying enemies might keep closer to the ground to
avoid this danger, or have the feather fall spell to prevent
the damage or a jade cat talisman to reduce it.
AQUATIC COMBAT
The rules in the Core Rulebook are fairly generous to allow
high-action battles underwater. Two significant challenges
for non-aquatic creatures are breathing underwater (or
holding their breath) and lacking a swim Speed. It’s often
best to save aquatic adventure until higher levels when
PCs can get magical solutions for these problems, but you
can instead give out such magic early, since it’s not easy
to exploit in land-based adventures the way flight magic
can be. As with flight, dispelling can be deadly if someone
relies on magic to breathe underwater. It’s generally best to
avoid having enemies who can breathe underwater dispel
the water-breathing magic aiding PCs. Though PCs might
be able to use air bubble and quickly cast water breathing
again, having this happen repeatedly can be frustrating,
and being forced to prepare an extremely high-level water
breathing spell to avoid it isn’t much fun either. Lacking
a swim Speed is easier to deal with, except for characters
with poor Athletics, who might need to strategize around
1
Gamemastery Basics
1515
introduction
Gamemastery
Basics
Tools
Subsystems
Variant Rules
NPC Gallery
GLOSSARY
and INDEX
