5
NPC Gallery
235
235
introduction
Gamemastery
Basics
Tools
Subsystems
Variant Rules
NPC Gallery
GLOSSARY
and INDEX
AC 24 (26 with shield raised); Fort +14, Ref +12, Will +15
HP 95
Aura of Command (aura, emotion, mental) 30 feet. The captain of the guard bolsters
lower‑level guards under their command, granting them a +1 status bonus to their
attack rolls and a +2 status bonus to their Will saves.
Bravery As watch officer.
Shield Warden When the captain has their shield raised, they can Shield Block when an
attack is made against an adjacent ally. If they do, the shield prevents that ally from
taking damage instead of the captain.
Attack of Opportunity 
Shield Block 
Speed 20 feet
Melee  longsword +18 (magical, versatile P), Damage 1d8+11 slashing
Ranged  crossbow +12 (range increment 120 feet, reload 1), Damage 1d8+6 piercing
Shielded Advance  Requirements The captain of the guard has their shield raised;
Effect The captain of the guard presses forward, using their shield to push back foes.
The captain Strides and Shoves, in either order. The multiple attack penalty doesn’t
apply to this Shove, though the Shove does count toward the captain’s multiple
attack penalty.
EXECUTIONER
Executioners carry out sentences from cruel tyrants and legitimate rulers
alike. Most remain numb to the necessity of their duty, but some evil
executioners grow to love the power of having someone else’s life in
their hands.
EXECUTIONER
CREATURE 6
LN
MEDIUM
HUMAN
HUMANOID
Perception +12
Languages Common
Skills Athletics +15, Intimidation +13, Medicine +10
Str +5, Dex +2, Con +3, Int –1, Wis +2, Cha +2
Items +1 greataxe, hood, leather armor
AC 23; Fort +15, Ref +12, Will +14
HP 105
Speed 25 feet
Melee  greataxe +16 (magical, sweep), Damage 1d12+9 slashing
Behead  Requirements The executioner is adjacent to a dying
creature or a creature specifically prepared for a killing blow; Effect
The executioner Strikes the creature with their greataxe. On a hit, in
addition to taking damage, the target must attempt a Fortitude save or
be reduced to 0 HP and become dying 1. If the creature was already
dying (including if it was reduced to 0 HP by the Strike’s damage),
the creature’s dying value increases by 1, in addition to any increase
from the Strike. On a critical failure, the creature dies instantly. If the
executioner’s Strike was a critical hit, the target uses the outcome for
one degree of success worse than the result of their saving throw.
Intimidating Strike  (emotion, fear, fighter, mental) The
executioner makes a melee Strike. If it hits and deals damage, the
target is frightened 1, or frightened 2 on a critical hit.
Mark for Death  (concentrate) The executioner marks a single creature
they can see for death. The first time each round the executioner
Strikes that creature, the Strike deals 1d12 additional precision
damage. The creature remains marked for death until the
executioner is knocked out, marks a different creature for
death, or the encounter ends.
UNUSUAL MISDEMEANORS
• Altering the weather without a
permit
• Consuming (or refusing
to consume) intoxicating
substances on celebration days
• Failing to clean up after animal
companions
• Flying within city limits
• Selling potions without a license
CAPTAIN OF THE GUARD
