Native Inhabitants crystal dragons, earth elementals, petitioners
(earth pneuma), shaitans
A great and rocky shell situated between the Plane of Fire and
Plane of Water, the Eternal Delve hosts a unique and varied
ecology of creatures at home in its rocky depths. Far from an
endless, solid expanse, the Plane of Earth is riddled with great
caverns and cave systems, excavated artificial vaults, vast
crystalline geodes, and underground oceans and springs of
magma where it borders its neighboring planes. Housing untold
riches in gemstones and veins of precious metals, the Plane of
Earth is an attractive setting for planar travelers seeking wealth
and willing to risk danger and the wrath of elementals, shaitans,
and other inhabitants who resent the plunder of their home.
While elementals have little organized society, the shaitan
genies’ Peerless Empire rules much of the plane from its capital,
the Opaline Vault—a rainbow-lit city within a 30-mile-wide geode
cavern. The shaitans have long been at war with the efreet
in the neighboring Plane of Fire, and while the earth genies
are less prone to slavery than their rivals, the shaitans brook
little dissent, and their rule can be harsh. They are downright
welcoming, however, compared to Ayrzul the Fossilized King,
the evil elemental lord of earth who rules a great expanse of rock
from his radiation-poisoned domain, the Blistering Labyrinth.
PLANE OF FIRE
PLANE
N
FIRE
Category Inner Plane
Divinities elemental lords of fire, Feronia
Native Inhabitants azers, efreet, fire elementals, magma
dragons, petitioners (fire pneuma)
Like a great, gleaming ball of flame situated at the heart of the
Astral Plane, the Plane of Fire is the outermost plane of the Inner
Sphere. A perpetual ocean of fire with skies of smoke, storms of
raining cinders, and lakes and rivers of magma flowing along its
border with the Elemental Plane of Earth, the plane is incredibly
hostile to those unprepared for its natural hazards. Yet it houses
one of the most well-known and traversed cities in all the planes:
the City of Brass, capital of the Dominion of Flame. Floating above
a sea of fire upon a great hemisphere of magical brass, the City of
Brass is a monument both to efreet cosmopolitan grandeur and
tyranny, the latter embodied by the grand sultana of the efreet.
Outside of the mercantile districts and the palaces and temples
of the fire genies, the city houses a vast enslaved underclass of
salamanders and others, including creatures from other planes.
The efreeti domain is not absolute, and elsewhere in the
plane are nations of fire mephits and the remains of an ancient
azer empire. While they don’t form any cohesive, organized
nations, the plane’s fire elementals are ruled over by the plane’s
most powerful entity, Ymeri the Queen of the Inferno, the evil
elemental lord of fire whose reign has gone unquestioned since
the imprisonment of her good-aligned rival Atreia eons ago.
PLANE OF WATER
PLANE
N
SUBJECTIVE GRAVITY
WATER
Category Inner Plane
Divinities elemental lords of water
Native Inhabitants brine dragons, marids, petitioners (water
pneuma), water elementals
Beyond the skies of the Plane of Air, the clouds grow darker
and condense into the vast, spherical, liquid shell of the Plane of
Water. Its nearly limitless stretches of saline, fresh, and brackish
seas teem with all manner of oceanic life, lit by light from the
border with the Plane of Air and descending into black, benthic
depths where it borders the Plane of Earth. While the plane is
perfectly amenable to water-breathing creatures, air-breathing
travelers must provide their own supply of air or magical means
to breathe. Bubbles of breathable atmosphere are relatively
rare and securely guarded, anchored over places of trade and
commerce with outsiders, such as the great city of Vialesk,
founded by immigrant undines. The plane’s oceans, dotted by
vast forests of kelp, magical currents, and strange phenomena,
play host to empires of merfolk, predatory and expansionist sea
devils, and the holdings of the plane’s great brine dragons.
While marids once claimed nearly absolute dominion over the
plane of their origin, their empire long ago fell into deterioration
and disunity. Their ravaged cities sank into the depths, and their
present-day holdings remain a shadow of their former grandeur.
Kelizandri the Brackish Emperor, the evil elemental lord of water
and cause of their ruin, rules the dark, saline depths, feasting
on all rivals and hoarding the vast, stolen wealth of the fallen
marid cities. Unlike other subjective gravity planes, on the Plane
of Water, a creature moves based on its swim Speed and must
use actions to Swim if it doesn’t have one.
TRANSITIVE PLANES
At a minimum, each Transitive Plane coexists with one or
more other planes, a relationship oversimplified by stating
that Transitive Planes are just used to get from one plane to
another. The mists of the Ethereal Plane overlap the planes
of the Inner Sphere, while the Astral Plane borders every
other plane in existence like the backstage of the cosmos.
Bright and dark mirrors of the Material Plane, the First
World and Shadow Plane overlap the mortal world, albeit
often in bizarre ways such that a short distance in one might
be a vast gulf in the other. The daring, wise, or desperate can
utilize these planes to bypass barriers in the Material Plane
or rapidly cross vast distances through much swifter travel.
ASTRAL PLANE
PLANE
N
SUBJECTIVE GRAVITY
TIMELESS
Category Transitive Plane
Divinities Alseta, Apsu
Native Inhabitants petitioners (untethered), shining children
The Silver Sea surrounds the planes of the Inner Sphere,
separating them from those of the Outer Sphere. The Astral Plane
provides the backdrop against which the River of Souls flows
from the Material Plane, ushering departed spirits toward final
judgment. Far from an empty void, the Astral’s silver substance
churns with currents and storms from the metaphysical heat
of the Plane of Fire, and where it touches the chaos of the
Maelstrom, the resulting eddies interact with the memories of
the dead to produce fleeting simulacra and even demiplanes.
Gamemastery Guide
140
140
