AID
It’s up to you whether someone’s preparation is enough to
let them Aid an ally. The preparation should be specific to
the task at hand. Helping someone hold a lockpick steady
might be enough preparation to Aid an attempt to Pick a
Lock, but just saying you’re going to “encourage” them
likely wouldn’t. Second, the character who is attempting
to Aid needs to be in a proper position to help, and able
to convey any necessary information. Helping a character
Climb a wall is pretty tough if the character a PC wishes
to Aid is nowhere near them. Similarly, a character usually
needs to be next to their ally or a foe to Aid the ally in
attacking the foe. You’ll also need to determine how long
the preparation takes. Typically, a single action is sufficient
to help with a task that’s completed in a single round, but
to help someone perform a long-term task, like research,
the character has to help until the task is finished.
READY
The Ready activity lets the acting person choose the trigger
for their readied action. However, you might sometimes
need to put limits on what they can choose. Notably,
the trigger must be something that happens in the game
world and is observable by the character rather than a
rules concept that doesn’t exist in world. For instance, if a
player says, “I Ready to shoot an arrow at her if she uses
a concentrate action,” or “I Ready to attack him if he has
fewer than 47 Hit Points,” find out what their character
is trying to specifically observe. If they don’t have a clear
answer for that, they need to adjust their action.
SEEK
The Seek action leaves it up to you how long a search
should take. Use common sense. Most of the time,
just trying to spot a creature hiding in a small area, or
something else you could find with a simple Seek action
rather than a long-term Search exploration activity,
should default to a single action. The biggest distinction
is whether something uses 3 actions or fewer—and can
therefore be accomplished in a single turn—or requires
more than that and can’t be accomplished in an encounter
at all. Consider whether it makes sense for the character
to pull this off during the encounter or not, and whether
that could be an interesting wrinkle in the story.
SENSE MOTIVE
When someone tries to Sense the Motive of an NPC,
you’ll need to figure out how to convey the information
they receive. It’s best to try to convey this indirectly, such
as by describing a lying target’s body language, odd word
choices, sweating, or other details rather than saying, “They
aren’t behaving normally.” However, sometimes dropping
a punchy, “Oh, she is 100% lying about this!” on a critical
success can be satisfying. You also might need to determine
when the situation changes enough for someone to try to
Sense Motive again. Usually, this means either the behavior
of the subject needs to change, or the person attempting
the check needs to receive new evidence that something is
out of the ordinary. If another PC tries to Sense Motive,
gets different information about the target, and shares it,
that doesn’t really count as new information for a PC who
tried previously. Rather, it’s up to the players to roleplay
out any changes in their thinking as a result.
TAKE COVER
You’ll often need to determine whether someone can Take
Cover. They usually just need a large enough object to
hide behind. Imagine the character crouching, and picture
whether the object could almost entirely cover up their
silhouette. Taking Cover might also require them to Drop
Prone, such as if they want to take cover under a table.
Most of the time, you can let them combine this with the
Take Cover action instead of using 2 separate actions.
MAPS AND MINIATURES
A grid and miniatures can make it easier to visualize combat
for players and give a visual centerpiece for the players to
focus on. Some advice for drawing maps appears on pages
52–53. A setup can range from a basic grid with some hasty
marker lines and coins for miniatures to a full-color Flip-
Mat with official prepainted minis or cardboard pawns,
all the way to a set of 3-D dungeon terrain and hand-
painted minis for each character. Many online tabletops
have preset maps, token packs, and built-in functions for
movement and line of sight. All these are fun to play on!
Your setup should match your time commitment, budget,
and the aesthetics you want.
You can also bring the setting alive by describing sensory
details like sounds, smells, temperature, and 3-D elements
that aren’t represented on your map. Including the echoing
ring of a sword striking a shield, an errant ray of frost
freezing solid an apple in a bowl of fruit on the table, and
the like makes the game feel more alive.
Placing miniatures on a grid can make it feel like you
need to be exacting with the rules, but there’s still room for
improvisation! You might give another 5 feet of movement
to someone running downhill if it will make their turn more
dramatic. You’re empowered to give players minor boosts
that fit the story you want to tell, and to fill in nuances of the
location beyond the elements covered in the Core Rulebook.
COVER
You determine whether a character has cover. The rules
for drawing lines found in the Core Rulebook are useful in
simple cases, but in more complicated situations, use your
own discretion to make the call. Consider the details of the
environment and 3-D space beyond what’s on the battle
mat. For instance, hanging banners might give cover, or a
PC who has climbed onto a ledge might have a clear shot at
an enemy standing behind a short wall. Be generous to PCs
who use creativity to get into smart positions, especially if
they spend valuable actions to move or Take Cover.
1
Gamemastery Basics
1313
introduction
Gamemastery
Basics
Tools
Subsystems
Variant Rules
NPC Gallery
GLOSSARY
and INDEX
