STONE OF WEIGHT
ITEM 2
RARE
CONJURATION
CURSED
MAGICAL
Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk L
Also known as a loadstone, this small stone appears non-
magical and has a lovely sheen, giving the impression that
it could be a valuable or a notable item or a magic stone of
some kind. When you’ve carried the stone on your person for
1 minute, its curse activates: the stone’s size does not change,
but it suddenly increases in weight to 5 Bulk. This additional
weight does not cause the stone to deal more damage if
thrown or used as a weapon. It reappears in your possessions
within 1 minute if you discard it, and can’t be destroyed or
thrown away permanently, or even placed in a container that
would reduce or negate its Bulk (like a bag of holding), until
it is subject to a remove curse spell or similar magic effect.
Once the curse has activated for the first time,
the stone fuses to you.
ITEM CURSES
Most curses alter a base item. Item curses alter their base
item, much like a property rune, though they can’t be
detected or identified unless a creature critically succeeds
at a check to Identify the Item. A curse can be applied to
the specific types of magic items listed in its Usage entry.
Curses typically can’t be removed or transferred from the
item, though at your discretion, either might be possible
after the curse is broken. If the PCs manage to break the
curse, the newly uncursed item could be quite valuable.
ARROW ATTRACTING
CURSE 8
RARE
ABJURATION
CURSED
MAGICAL
Usage curses armor or shield
An item affected by an arrow attracting curse protects you
normally, but it draws ranged attacks like a magnet. Whenever
a creature within 120 feet misses with a ranged attack, it
must immediately reroll the attack against your AC, affecting
you depending on the result of the new attack roll. The arrow
attraction curse activates only if you could have been a
legitimate target. Creatures that intentionally attempt to miss
a ranged attack do not activate an arrow attraction curse. Once
the curse has activated for the first time, the item fuses to you.
ARSONOUS
CURSE 7
RARE
CURSED
EVOCATION
FIRE
MAGICAL
Usage curses a ring, staff, or wand
An arsonous curse creates flaws in the mystic pathways
that channel magic through an item, allowing excess
power to escape as sparks. Whenever you activate
the magic item, a random ally within 30 feet
takes 1d10 persistent fire damage. If no ally
is in range, you take the damage instead. At
the GM’s discretion, this curse might ignite an unattended
object or the surrounding environment instead.
BACKBITING
CURSE 4
RARE
CURSED
EVOCATION
MAGICAL
Usage curses a weapon
A weapon with the backbiting curse warps space
in response to catastrophic mishaps. Whenever
you critically fail at a Strike with this weapon,
the weapon curls around (or its projectile
swerves through the air) to strike you in the back
as though you hit yourself, automatically dealing
maximum damage to you.
BLOODBITER
CURSE 6
RARE
CURSED
MAGICAL
 NECROMANCY
Usage curses a piercing or slashing weapon
A bloodbiter weapon is awakened by
violence and fueled by blood. When you make
a successful attack with the weapon, it inflicts a
wound that deals 1d6 persistent bleed damage (in
addition to its normal damage), but it also deals 1d6
persistent bleed damage to you. The curse remains
POISONOUS CLOAK
Gamemastery Guide
92
92
