but it could vary depending on the situation, and should
especially be slower against obstacles that require more
than 1 Chase Point per character to overcome.
Select or build obstacles highlighting a variety of
different skills and other options so everyone in the party
has a moment to shine. When choosing what skills can
bypass a given obstacle, ensure a variety of approaches
can work. If you’ve already decided that an obstacle
uses Stealth, selecting Thievery as the other option
doesn’t really offer opportunities for different types of
characters, since those who are good at Thievery are
very likely the same ones who are good at Stealth. On
the other hand, offering Athletics as an alternative gives
a champion who’s terrible at Stealth a way to help. The
group can help cover for a character who is less capable
at a particular obstacle, but it’s more fun for players to
present substantially different options for each obstacle.
Use the following guidelines to determine how many
obstacles you need for your chase. These numbers assume
that the pursued party can reach a certain location to
end the chase (as described in Ending Chases). If there’s
no such escape, you might need more obstacles.
Short: 6 obstacles, about 10–20 minutes of game time
Medium: 8 obstacles, about 15–25 minutes of game time
Long: 10 obstacles, about 20–30 minutes of game time
SETTING OBSTACLE DCS
When you set the DCs for an obstacle, you’ll typically be
using simple DCs. Use a proficiency rank that’s generally
appropriate for the PCs’ level if you want the obstacle to
be a significant one. As noted earlier, you’ll typically want
to select a couple different ways the group can get past
an obstacle. At least one check should be have an easy
or very easy adjustment, while the other check should
have a standard or hard DC. In some cases you might
use something other than a simple DC; for example, if a
specific NPC has put up a magical barrier, you would use
their spell DC. This might result in some pretty tough DCs
or even impassable obstacles, so use this carefully!
If a PC improvises a different way to get around an
obstacle from what you planned, set the DC just like you
would normally when picking a DC on the fly. Don’t
worry about adjusting the DC of the check to be easy or
very easy, because the PC is likely to be good at the skill
they’ve chosen to use.
SHORTCUTS AND SPLIT PATHS
You might want to build a chase with multiple paths that
split and rejoin so you can have a shortcut (with easier
DCs or fewer obstacles) or paths that appeal to different
types of characters. For instance, one obstacle might
allow a PC who critically succeeds at a Perception check
to find a faster path along a canal, without the obstacles
of a busy street. This can be fun, but can also split up the
group. Familiarize yourself with the Solo Chases sidebar
above to make similar adjustments for a divided group.
ENDING CHASES
Once you have the obstacles, decide the end conditions.
Chases often end when the pursuer reaches the same
obstacle as the pursued, leading to a combat encounter or
other scene. However, it’s less clear when to end a chase
otherwise. It’s typically best to have an obstacle that ends
the chase with the pursued character getting away, as long
as they overcome the obstacle before being captured. This is
usually better than ending the chase after a certain number of
rounds, because reaching a hideaway makes more narrative
sense and because you might not be able to predict how far
the pursued characters move in those rounds, making you
run out of obstacles. You can also end the chase in favor
of the pursued characters if they ever get a certain number
of obstacles ahead of the pursuers (typically three), as the
pursuers simply lose the trail. You should still have an end
point to the chase, though, in case that never happens.
TYPES OF CHASES
• Chase Down: The PCs pursue adversaries. The PCs go
second in initiative since they’re the pursuers. Start the
enemies one obstacle ahead of the PCs (or at the same
location for a short chase), and end the chase if the
PCs catch up to the enemies, or if the enemies reach a
certain location that represents their safety or escape.
• Run Away: The PCs attempt to escape. They’ll go first
in initiative since they’re being pursued. It’s usually best
to start them one obstacle ahead of their foes and end
the chase if they reach a certain location or are three
obstacles ahead of their foes at the end of a round.
• Beat the Clock: The PCs try to get through all the
obstacles before a certain number of rounds passes,
such as if the PCs are trying to outrun a natural disaster
or race in a timed challenge. The number of obstacles
should usually be equal to the number of rounds.
• Competitive Chase: The PCs and their adversaries
are both chasing the same thing or trying to reach the
same location, and whoever gets there first wins. This
works like chase down, except that either party could
win. Because there is more than one set of pursuers,
you might have the PCs and their competitors roll
initiative to see who goes first each round (while still
moving all NPCs at a steady rate.)
SOLO CHASES
Sometimes circumstances might require you to run a chase
where the PCs are each progressing individually, rather than
as a group, such as if they get split up. The danger therein is
that a player can easily become frustrated if their character
is stuck at an obstacle where it’s extremely difficult to
succeed at either choice, and no allies can help them. In
these chases, it’s best to allow even a single success be
enough for a character to progress to the next obstacle, and
have a critical success give the character a +2 circumstance
bonus on their first check against the next obstacle.
3
Subsystems
157
157
introduction
Gamemastery
Basics
Tools
Subsystems
Variant Rules
NPC Gallery
GLOSSARY
and INDEX
