RALLY
AUDITORY
EMOTION
EXPLORATION
LINGUISTIC
MENTAL
Prerequisites trained in Diplomacy, Intimidation, or Performance
You spend 1 minute encouraging your ally. Though this action typically has the auditory
and linguistic traits, if you’re using the Performance skill, the GM might adjust the traits
for this action to match the traits for your type of performance.
Attempt a DC 15 skill check. The GM might adjust this DC based on the circumstances,
such as attempting to Rally an ally who just suffered a humiliating defeat.
Critical Success The ally can spend 1 Resolve Point to regain all their Stamina Points.
Success You can continue encouraging your ally for a total of 10 minutes. If you do, they
can spend 1 Resolve Point to regain all their Stamina Points.
Critical Failure The ally takes 1d8 mental damage, but this can reduce only Stamina
Points, never Hit Points.
STAMINA FEATS
ENCOURAGING WORDS [one-action]
FEAT 2
AUDITORY
GENERAL
LINGUISTIC
MENTAL
SKILL
Prerequisites trained in Diplomacy
Requirements The target ally lost Stamina Points within the last round.
You give an ally within 30 feet a quick pep talk, helping them recover. Attempt a Diplomacy
check. The DC is usually 15, though the GM might adjust it based on the circumstances.
If you have expert proficiency in Diplomacy, you can instead
attempt a DC 20 check to increase the Stamina Points recovered
by 5; if you have master proficiency, you can attempt a DC 30
check to increase the Stamina Points by 15; if you have legendary
proficiency, you can attempt a DC 40 check to increase the
Stamina Points by 25. No matter the result, the ally is
temporarily immune to Encouraging Words until they
either Take a Breather or rest for the day.
Critical Success The ally recovers 2d8
Stamina Points.
Success The ally recovers 1d8 Stamina Points.
Critical Failure The ally takes 1d8 mental damage, but this
can reduce only Stamina Points, never Hit Points.
STEEL YOUR RESOLVE [one-action]
FEAT 3
GENERAL
Cost 1 Resolve Point
Regain Stamina Points equal to half your maximum.
OTHER CREATURES
There’s no need to give Stamina Points to
monsters that are expected to be encountered
once and likely defeated. However, you might
use Stamina Points for a recurring character,
especially an NPC who fights alongside the
PCs. Usually, it’s easiest to turn half the
creature’s Hit Points into Stamina Points.
While enemy healers still work as they’re
intended to, players might be upset about
the enemies’ ability to heal their allies to
full Hit Points, while the PCs are left not
being able to heal their allies’ Stamina
Points. In this case, give more enemies
Stamina Points to compensate.
NO-LIMIT STAMINA
If you want a fast-paced, almost
superheroic game, you can skip the
Resolve Point component of this
subsystem and simply make Taking
a Breather and Rally free. This
gives the characters a lot of staying
power, meaning that the group will
typically keep adventuring until
they run out of spells for the day,
rather than having the additional
pressure of running out of Resolve
Points. If you use this approach,
omit the Steel Your Resolve feat, as
it’s too powerful if there’s no cost to
use it! Alternatively, if you want to
keep it, you can require a character
to Take a Breather before they can
Steel their Resolve again.
4
Variant Rules
201
201
introduction
Gamemastery
Basics
Tools
Subsystems
Variant Rules
NPC Gallery
GLOSSARY
and INDEX
