Limited: The physical universe in your campaign
world may be smaller in scope yet far more fanciful.
For example, in Hinduism, the cosmos is supported
on the backs of four elephants, themselves standing
upon the shell of a world‑sized tortoise, whereas Norse
cosmology describes nine worlds connected by an
immense ash tree.
Bizarre: Sometimes the universe is more complex than
the previous two categories, or possibly nested within
multiple realities. What if the universe the PCs first know
is in fact a magical or mechanical simulation of such
complexity that its inhabitants are unaware that they
themselves exist as an artificial consciousness?
COMPOSITION OF OUTER SPACE
The spaces between the stars can also affect the stories
told in that world.
Vacuum: In conventional astronomy, outer space is an
immense void existing in a near‑perfect vacuum. In some
settings—including the Age of Lost Omens, where it is
known as the Dark Tapestry—the trackless firmament
between the stars is an ominous expanse home only to
terrible beings of incomprehensible malice.
Endless Sky: What if the blue sky overhead extended
outward forever? One need only fly high enough and far
enough to reach another world.
Celestial Spheres: The ancient Greeks posited
that planets, stars, are more were embedded
like jewels within celestial orbs of quintessence
nested within one another.
SOLAR SYSTEM
What is the shape and structure of the solar system
containing your game world?
Heliocentric: Physics dictate that all planets in a system
orbit the sun.
Geocentric: What if your game world
is in fact the center of the star system, or
perhaps even the center of the known universe?
Dyson Sphere: Perhaps a solar system has been
enclosed in an artificial structure designed to harness
the power of the sun.
PLANETS AND MOONS
In antiquity, astronomers noticed that some of the
twinkling lights in the night sky moved differently than the
others. In time, these celestial wanderers would come to be
known as planets, many with their own complement of
orbiting moons. Are there other planets orbiting your
world’s sun? Are they terrestrial, gas giants,
or something less common? How many
moons are there? The characters may
never venture there, but celestial bodies can
have a strong influence on a culture and help
you describe your world in an evocative
and distinctive way.
THE MULTIVERSE
In Pathfinder, the physical universe of your world is one
plane within a much broader multiverse. The Planes, on
page 136, details how planes work and the multiverse of
the Age of Lost Omens, but you can fit planes to your story
and world, or even build a new multiverse from scratch!
Perhaps there are only two planes beyond the material
universe, diametrically opposed and fighting over mortal
souls, or the multiverse consists only of a series of infinite
alternate realities. The options are truly infinite, limited
only by your imagination and the story you want to tell.
2
Tools
129
129
introduction
Gamemastery
Basics
Tools
Subsystems
Variant Rules
NPC Gallery
GLOSSARY
and INDEX
