achieve if they go beyond what’s expected of them? A
well-constructed adventure conveys the stakes at the outset,
but it’s also important to remind the players of those stakes
throughout play. The Core Rulebook summarizes the scale
of the stakes for each mode of play, and these are varied on
purpose. A game where the stakes are extremely high all
the time cuts out the opportunity for low-key scenes, and
can be overwhelming or even monotonous. In most games,
players enjoy having some scenes where their characters
can relax and socialize with low stakes as well.
Consequences should be specific and evocative. Don’t
just tell the players what happened after their characters’
success or failure; let their characters witness it in the
world. Are they greeted as heroes by townsfolk? Does the
bastion of evil crack and shudder, falling apart as the PCs
escape? Does a failure lead to the death of an ally and a
somber funeral? It’s usually best if the PCs can foresee
the consequences, at least in a general sense. If a villain
demonstrates their intention to conquer a city, and the PCs
don’t stop them, then the city gets conquered. It’s OK if you
have an idea for an interesting subversion occasionally, but
keep those to a minimum or the chain of cause and effect
will become too muddy.
You can emphasize consequences by awarding PCs
accomplishment XP (Core Rulebook 507). It serves as a
good reminder to the players, reinforcing their success.
Failing Forward
An unexpected failure can bring the game to a halt,
particularly during exploration. “Failing forward” means
finding a way to progress the story instead of just saying,
“That didn’t work.” This doesn’t mean that the group can’t
fail, or that the PCs should get what they wanted despite
failing. Rather, it means that a failure might still impart
more information, reveal a way to improve their chances
next time, or even cause unforeseen difficulties. Doing so
means the player’s choice to attempt a check mattered, even
if the results weren’t what they wanted. Allowing the PCs
to fail forward means fewer dead ends and perfunctory
checks. It’s important however, not to put unnecessary
pressure on yourself to do so all the time. Sometimes you
won’t know immediately how a PC can fail forward, and
in those cases, it’s usually best to just move on.
IMPROVISATION
As a GM, you often make things up on the fly. You can find
tips for improvising rules on page 491 of the Core Rulebook
and within the Adjudicating Rules section of this book
(pages 28–29). When an issue seems to pertains to the story
instead of the rules, ask yourself the following questions.
• Does something already established in our story so far
tell me what should happen here?
• If an NPC is involved, what would their personality
lead them to do?
• What does the player expect to happen?
• What would best fit the themes of our story?
You might not have a good answer for every question,
but asking them can inspire useful solutions. If what you
need to invent is significant in the storyline or world, there’s
nothing wrong with asking the group to take a little break
while you fill in the gap. If it’s not particularly significant
and you can’t come up with anything more compelling, it’s
also okay to say, “Nothing happens,” and move on.
Often, a player will ask, “What happens when I do
that?” This is a good indicator that the player expects
that what they’ve done will draw a reaction from an NPC
or the environment. Unless the player is way off base,
provide an in-game response, even if it’s minor. The player
has telegraphed what matters to them, and the perceived
importance of their action can draw them into the game.
False inFormation
A critical failure to Recall Knowledge can result in you
needing to convey false information, requiring some
improvisation. If you aren’t careful, this information can
be perceived by the PCs as too silly, or could derail the
game. For example, if a PC misinterpreted text about the
god of commerce, Abadar, saying they believe the god is
an incompetent chaotic spendthrift who’s bad with money
is absurd. Similarly, if they incorrectly believe Abadar will
reward them with great wealth if they ring bells in four
different temple corners, this could send them on a tangent.
Providing false information can cause the PCs to
make mistakes, but the consequences should typically
be immediate rather than continual or far in the future.
Avoid dispensing false information that might not be used
for hours or entire sessions, after the check is forgotten.
If you’re unsure, the safest form of false information is
information that’s wrong but not in a way that causes
major consequences. Remember that a critical failure says
you get incorrect information, not that you get important-
seeming false information. Erroneously believing Abadar’s
symbol is a set of scales instead of a key might lead to a
miscommunication, but one that’s not dangerous, pretty
easy to clear up, and only a little embarrassing for the PC.
SECRET CHECKS
During play, you roll some checks in secret instead of
allowing the player to do so, as explained on page 450 of
the Core Rulebook. This rule helps ensure that a player
remains uncertain at times when their character is unsure
of how a situation may resolve, immersing the player in
their character’s perspective. It can be handy to keep a
list of the PCs’ modifiers on hand to help you roll secret
checks more quickly. At least, you should record each
player’s Perception modifier, their saving throw modifiers
(especially Will), and the skill modifiers of any skills they
often use to Recall Knowledge. Check in anytime the PCs
level up, and consider asking the players to update you
when any of these modifiers change.
You can still have the players roll the checks even if an
action has the secret trait. This is usually best done when
Gamemastery Guide
8
