the results are going to be immediate or when stakes are
low, like when the PC is trying to recall something during
downtime that they’ll see is false through the course of their
research. You can instead have the players handle all their
rolls, secret or otherwise. This works best when the group
is interested in leaning into the dramatic irony of knowing
a PC is wrong and playing up their characters’ mistakes.
HERO POINTS
Page 507 of the Core Rulebook offers guidelines for
determining how many Hero Points to award and when
to do so. These recommendations are flexible. Consider
Hero Points a way to reinforce your personal style of Game
Mastering and to reward what you value during play. The
toughest part of awarding Hero Points can be remembering
to do it! Keeping a Hero Point token on hand in front of
you can provide a visual and tactile reminder. You can also
solicit help from your players by asking them to remind you
when they think a PC’s action merits a Hero Point.
METAGAMING
Knowledge the players have that their characters don’t is
called “metagame knowledge,” and using it to influence
characters’ decisions is called “metagaming.” Some
metagaming results naturally from play and is wise to
disregard. The wizard aiming a fireball precisely enough to
include three enemies in the very edge of the spell’s area is
probably unrealistic, but isn’t that disruptive to play. Things
get more questionable if the player says, “That’s a rakshasa, so
don’t use divine spells against it,” regardless of whether their
character has encountered a rakshasa before or identified
the creature. Each group is different, and the assumption
of what the characters know varies. If metagaming starts to
get out of hand, you might just use some gentle reminders,
like, “I’m not sure your character’s aware of that,” or, “Can
you explain your character’s thinking when they do that?”
If the problem persists, see the guidelines mentioned in the
Problematic Players section on page 31.
PORTRAYING NPCS
Although the PCs are the stars of the game, NPCs make
the world around the PCs vibrant. They can become a part
of the story, sometimes for years, weaving into the story
right alongside the PCs. Portray NPCs however it works
for you. Some GMs keep it simple, describing the NPCs
simply by their looks, or their hook (see below). Others
go into more detail, using accents, mannerisms, or acting.
Because NPCs have smaller roles than PCs, imparting
enough information to convey their identities while they
interact with the party can be challenging. When you
create an NPC, start by integrating a single “hook” into
their concept: a widowed merchant, a refugee from a
distant realm, or a child who constantly asks awkward
questions. Each hints at a backstory but is easily described
in a synopsis. If the NPC continues to interact with the
party, you can then add to their backstory later.
nPC limitations
Always remember that the PCs have the greatest role in
your story. Avoid including allied NPCs who could easily
solve any problem the PCs get assigned. An extremely
powerful NPC should be engaged with matters beyond
what the PCs are tasked with or have some limitation
that necessitates the PCs’ involvement. Remember that
an NPC is not “your character” in the way each player
has a character. Though NPCs who travel with the party
can be effective and fun when handled with caution, an
NPC who effectively acts as the GM’s character is often
called a GMPC (Game Master Player Character) and can
contribute to a feeling that the players are being coerced
into making certain decisions.
Betrayal
NPCs, even allies, can shift allegiances. They might betray,
fail, or sell out their companions, which can make for a
meaningful story event. If an NPC is betraying the party
in some way, lay groundwork early on so the players don’t
feel ambushed by the twist. If the players can look back
and see a clear path to this result, it is likely they’ll feel the
decision makes sense in the context of the story. Try to give
the NPC a “tell” or a paper trail they can detect.
resPeCting the CharaCter
Sometimes, when creating characters, a GM can
unintentionally play into themes that can be harmful or
hurtful. For example, an NPC with a background of abuse,
a former or current slave, or a character with disabilities
requires respectful handling. This is particularly true if
you, as the GM, do not have the same life experience as the
NPC in question. If you want to include these themes for
an NPC, you should probably bring it up with your players
beforehand and set expectations. You don’t need to spoil
the character, but sitting down and checking in with your
players can help prevent unpleasant surprises and is better
than assuming. To keep the representation respectful, avoid
clichés and don’t use the hook as a joke. Your group’s
guidelines for objectionable content (Core Rulebook 486)
can also help you portray NPCs respectfully.
a ProPer end
An NPC’s story should have a satisfying ending. The NPC
might leave your story when they achieve a major goal,
go on to other adventures, give up their dream, or die.
The death of a beloved NPC should have weight. Make it
sympathetic and powerful, and ideally have it take place
“on stage” with the PCs present. Be prepared that NPC
deaths might stir up strong emotions within the group,
and be prepared to cut the session short or to fade to
black to mitigate the full brunt of the event if necessary.
An NPC’s death should matter beyond the PCs’ emotions
or search for revenge, too—maybe the NPC’s sacrifice
saved a village or inspired others. Let players see that
legacy carried on.
1
Gamemastery Basics
9
introduction
Gamemastery
Basics
Tools
Subsystems
Variant Rules
NPC Gallery
GLOSSARY
and INDEX
