door, glibness, outcast’s curse, suggestion; 3rd (4 slots) enthrall, grim tendrils, haste, mind
reading; 2nd (4 slots) augury, calm emotions, hideous laughter, touch of idiocy; 1st (4 slots)
bless, illusory disguise, lock, unseen servant; Cantrips (4th) chill touch, daze, detect magic,
guidance, shield
Gather Converts [three-actions] (auditory, concentrate, emotion, linguistic, mental) With a short
emotional phrase, the cult leader tries to sway the public to do their bidding. The cult leader
tries to convince up to four bystanders in a crowd to either cause a commotion, turn against
a person or group, leave the area, protect the cult leader, or calm down. The cult leader
attempts a single Deception check against the highest Perception DC among the targets.
Critical Success The targets believe the lie and act as directed for 1 minute. Additionally,
one bystander remains by the cult leader’s side, influenced enough to join their sect.
All other targets become wise to the cult leader after 1 minute, at which point their
attitude toward the leader worsens by one step.
Success As a critical success, but no bystander joins the sect permanently.
Critical Failure The crowd is unmoved and unamused, and their attitude toward the cult
leader worsens by one step.
DEMONOLOGIST
Demonologists can pull a creature from the Abyss and bend it to their will… for a time.
DEMONOLOGIST
CREATURE 7
CE
MEDIUM
HUMAN
HUMANOID
Perception +15
Languages Abyssal, Common
Skills Academia Lore +14, Arcana +16, Demon Lore +18, Diplomacy +11
(+13 with demons), Religion +15
Str +3, Dex +1, Con +2, Int +4, Wis +4, Cha +0
Items +1 longspear, scholarly robes, spell component pouch, spellbook
(Fiendish Hypotheses and Protections from Same)
Abyssal Temptation (divine, enchantment, mental) Demonic study has garnered
the attention of at least one demon that is actively trying to possess the
demonologist. When the demonologist publicly espouses the benefits of demonic
power (whether they believe it a good thing or not), they gain a +1 status bonus to
skill checks, AC, and saves for 1 day. These bonuses don’t apply against demons.
At the end of the day, the demonologist must attempt a DC 20 Will save,
becoming possessed for 1 day on a failure (permanently on a critical failure).
AC 22; Fort +13, Ref +12, Will +15
HP 100
Speed 25 feet
Melee  longspear +17 (magical, reach), Damage 1d8+9 piercing
Arcane Prepared Spells DC 26, attack +18; 4th clairvoyance, lightning
bolt, resilient sphere; 3rd fireball, glyph of warding, slow, stinking
cloud; 2nd acid arrow, blur, hideous laughter, see invisibility; 1st fear
(×2), fleet step, mending; Cantrips (4th) acid splash, daze, detect
magic, light, read aura
Breach the Abyss  Requirements The demonologist’s last action
was to cast a non-cantrip spell; Effect The demonologist siphons
energy drawn from the Abyss into their weapon. Until the end of the turn,
the weapon deals an extra 2d6 damage. Roll 1d20 to determine the type:
1–7 acid, 8–9 cold, 10–11 electricity, 12–18 fire, 19–20 negative.
Demon Summoning The demonologist can cast a 5th-level summon fiend
arcane spell to summon a demon. To do so, they must sacrifice two
4th-level prepared spells and voluntarily take 4d12 mental damage that
can’t be reduced or prevented. If the demonologist is unable to Sustain the Spell,
including if they’re knocked out or killed, the spell continues, but the GM rolls
a DC 10 flat check each round, ending the spell on a failure.
DARK RITUALS
Most rituals have a simple gp cost
and skills. But what if a desperate
NPC is willing to offer something
darker, such as lives, souls, or
worse? Such a nefarious ritual uses
a normal ritual as a baseline,
but the DCs and proficiency
requirements might be
reduced or waived entirely, as
might any gp cost.
5
NPC Gallery
231
231
introduction
Gamemastery
Basics
Tools
Subsystems
Variant Rules
NPC Gallery
GLOSSARY
and INDEX
DEMONOLOGIST
