RUNNING DOWNTIME
There’s more to life than fighting monsters and looting treasure. What happens when a PC
wins a deed to a tavern in a game of cards, crafts a magical item, builds a home, or pursues
a relationship? All these goals and more are resolved by running downtime.
You can use downtime in a variety of ways that can
streamline gameplay and flesh out the story, such as to:
• Demonstrate changes to the setting that result from
the PCs’ previous achievements, giving them time to
breathe and appreciate what they’ve accomplished.
• Emphasize the PCs’ planning and the fruit it bears.
• Avoid bogging the game down, even if a great deal of
time passes. Keep the number of rolls small.
• Bring back compelling NPCs or plot threads
established in previous downtime or adventures.
• Interject interesting events and scenes related to what
the PCs do to make the world feel more alive.
• Switch to encounter or exploration more as needed
when actions spur a new scene or adventure.
This section covers advice on how to fit downtime to suit
your group. The amount and complexity can vary greatly
depending on the game. You can find the basics of running
downtime on page 500 of the Core Rulebook.
DEPTH OF DOWNTIME
Determine how involved your group wants downtime to
be at the start of the game. If your players vary greatly in
preference, you might need to find a middle ground, or
some way to give the players least interested in downtime
something they would find compelling. You can adjust
downtime depth as the game goes along, and you might find
it becomes more important to the players as their connection
to the setting grows stronger.
Pay attention to the amount of real-world time you spend
in downtime and the level of detail. Downtime should
rarely last a whole session. Usually, a half hour between
significant adventures is about right, and 15 minutes for
shorter lulls in the action, such as when PCs return to a
town briefly in the middle of an adventure. You can extend
this as needed for more detailed roleplaying scenes.
For the level of detail, it’s important to give more than
just an overview, but often the basics will do. “A fleet of
merchant ships arrives in the port, and an officer puts you
to work unloading cargo” might do for using Sailing Lore
to Earn Income, and “Your shipment of iron arrives late,
but you’re able to complete the armor” could be enough for
Crafting. Go deeper if the player sets out to do something
specific or asks questions you think have potential for an
interesting story, but be careful with too much detail, as
you run the risk of boring most of the table with minutiae.
GROUP ENGAGEMENT
One major challenge of downtime is keeping the whole
group involved. When you can, combine multiple people’s
tasks into one. For instance, if one PC wants to Earn
Income with Performance and another wants to offer
their services as a medic, you might say that a traveling
caravan is stopping briefly, seeking entertainment and
treatment for diseases and injuries their group suffered
on the road. That means you can put both PCs in the
same scene. You can also look for downtime activities
that affect multiple characters’ interests. For instance, if
the rogue’s contact at the thieves’ guild wants a special
magical cloak, a different PC might Craft that cloak.
PCs can help each other more directly. For instance,
if the barbarian’s player doesn’t plan to do anything
in downtime, you might let the barbarian Aid another
character in crafting weapons—feeding the forge and
working the bellows, for instance.
If a player really isn’t interested in downtime, they might
not want to engage at all. In that case, it’s best to shorten
the time you spend on downtime and give their actions a
one-sentence description. If other players want a deeper
downtime experience, consider extending game sessions or
running side sessions for just those players.
CAMPAIGNS WITHOUT DOWNTIME
There are two ways you might end up with a game that
has no downtime: no time and no interest. In the first, the
story moves along so quickly that the PCs don’t really have
time to engage with downtime. Think of it like a breakneck
action movie, where the characters barely have time to
breathe before they’re on to the next challenge, and even
the end of an adventure is a cliffhanger.
In the second, you and the other players just don’t care
about downtime at all. It doesn’t interest you. In this case,
just summarize what happens between adventures and
skip using any downtime rules.
If you skip downtime, you might not need to adjust your
game. The money PCs can earn during downtime is minor
compared to what they can gain through adventures.
However, the PCs will have less choice in what items they
get if they don’t Craft or earn extra money to buy items.
LONG-TERM GOALS
Downtime’s more satisfying when the PCs work toward
long-term goals rather than perform disconnected tasks.
You can ask players what their PCs’ goals are, and also
look for storylines they’re interested in that you can use
as seeds for long-term goals. Long-term goals might
include running a business, creating a guild, establishing
an arcane school, returning a despoiled land to its natural
splendor, reforming local politics, or rebuilding a ruin.
Gamemastery Guide
22
22
