those constraints to determine how many Research Points
they must earn to reach each threshold. You don’t need
to evenly space thresholds—you could require very few
Research Points to learn crucial clues you want to ensure
the PCs receive and a much larger number to reach the
final threshold that grants a special reward.
LIBRARY STAT BLOCK
When you build a library, you can use a stat block to
organize the information. In a published adventure, you’ll
find libraries presented in the format below. There’s no need
to include entries that aren’t applicable for your library.
LIBRARY’S NAME
LIBRARY (LEVEL)
TRAITS
Division Name and Description Whether it’s a section of a
physical library, one of several research topics the PCs are
studying, or something more creative, this is the name of
one of the library’s divisions. If the divisions are separate
topics, they’ll each have their own thresholds, but if the
divisions are separate areas all related to the same topic
or topics, they might have RP maximums instead, after
which the PCs have exhausted the information in that
area. Repeat these sections for the library’s other divisions;
if using RP maximums, make sure the divisions provide
enough Research Points to reach the final threshold.
Research Checks The skills or other checks the PCs can
attempt to Research the division are listed here with their
DCs, in order from the lowest DC (the skill that works best)
to the highest DC. If a skill isn’t listed but a player provides
a strong narrative explanation for using it, you can add it at
an appropriate DC (usually the highest listed DC). Academia
Lore and Library Lore will often be listed in these entries.
Research Thresholds Each threshold lists the number of RP
required to reach it, followed by the effects for meeting that
threshold. Thresholds are listed in order from first (requiring
the fewest RP) to last (the highest threshold).
Beneath the stat block, you can list any events that occur
based on timing rather than the PCs’ RP total (such as a
threatening message arriving on the third day), as well as
any other important details.
RUNNING RESEARCH
When running the research subsystem, think about the two
factors that set the pace of the research and allow you to
break it up: the length of each round of research, and the
thresholds in the research. Use both of these in tandem to
breathe life into the session and draw the players into the
game. Ideally the PCs are aware of whatever pressure requires
them to finish the research, so as rounds pass, the tension
increases. As long as the PCs are able to get the information
they came for, it’s fine if they don’t learn everything the
library has to offer; in fact, you might intentionally create a
situation allowing the PCs time to glean only some of a list
of special rewards, forcing them to prioritize their favorites.
SAMPLE STAT BLOCK
In this example, the PCs are trying to research hidden occult
secrets about hags known only to the fey of a strange
sylvan library. It’s a 7th-level challenge. If you’d like to use
this sample library for a different research topic, just change
the results of each threshold and replace any Occultism
Research checks with checks appropriate to the new topic!
GLADE OF FORGOTTEN TIME
LIBRARY 7
FEY
PRIMAL
Field of Tomeflowers Five-foot stems open up into
colorful petaled tomes; Maximum RP 10
Research Checks DC 18 Academia Lore or Library Lore,
DC 23 Occultism
Loremother Tree A powerful intelligence slumbers deep
within this ancient oak, awakened by communion or
music; Maximum RP 15
Research Checks DC 21 Performance, DC 23 Nature, DC
25 Occultism
Sprite Swarm Thousands of iridescent sprites flit about,
eager to offer tidbits of information, though it is not
always reliable; Maximum RP 5
Research Checks DC 23 Diplomacy, DC 23 Occultism,
DC 25 Society, DC 28 Perception
5
Research Points The PCs learn apocryphal fey legends
that the first hags were once cruel fey queens twisted
by inner corruption. They learn details about hag
reproduction, changelings, and the hag mother’s Call.
10 Research Points The PCs learn the location of an
ancient, twisted grove in the First World rumored to
hold a secret treasure connected to hags. Attaining
this knowledge comes at a cost: hag malice solidifies
into two will-o’-wisps and animates some of the
glade’s plant matter into a shambler. The three
creatures attack the PCs together.
15 Research Points The PCs learn a variety of occult
folk divinations said to detect the presence of nearby
hags. Among them is a functioning uncommon spell:
read omens.
20 Research Points The loremother tree stirs and
partially awakens, issuing the PCs a dire warning
about danger in the knowledge they seek. Replace
the loremother tree’s Performance Research check
with a DC 28 Diplomacy check to convince the tree
to share further knowledge.
25 Research Points The whole glade goes quiet, and
the PCs feel a pall fall over their hearts. The PCs are
close, but all Research check DCs increase by 2.
30 Research Points The PCs learn even more esoteric
wisdom about hags. However, they have drawn the
attention of a coven of annis hags, who materialize
to destroy the party and their newfound knowledge.
If the PCs run out of time before reaching this point,
the coven erases any further information before
attacking the PCs out of spite.
3
Subsystems
155
155
introduction
Gamemastery
Basics
Tools
Subsystems
Variant Rules
NPC Gallery
GLOSSARY
and INDEX
