CHAPTER 2: TOOLS
While the Core Rulebook provides all the tools you need to be a Game Master, you may
want resources to create original game content, whether it be new items, unique creatures,
or a sprawling new world for adventurers to explore.
This chapter provides a variety of tools to help you quickly and easily build
your own elements for your game, as well as some special types of rules you can
incorporate in your game, such as more hazards and strange magic items. This
chapter is organized into the following sections.
• Building Creatures (page 56) demonstrates a top-down approach for
quickly and easily constructing the creatures and NPCs you want or need
for any possible situation in your game.
• Building Hazards (page 74) gives rules and advice for creating your own
brand-new hazards.
• Building Items (page 82) teaches you how to create new pieces of treasure
to delight your PCs.
• Item Quirks (page 86) introduces simple but memorable quirks that you
can use to quickly personalize an item and make its nature seem just as
unique and exciting as its special abilities.
• Intelligent Items (page 88) includes rules for creating items with a mind of
their own that are characters in their own right, as well as several examples
to get you started.
• Cursed Items (page 90) examines items that have a nasty drawback or
might be altogether unpleasant. The section includes specific cursed items
and a list of curses you can add to an existing item, akin to a rune.
• Relics (page 94) are special magic items that increase in power along with
the PCs, and that you and your players work together to build and enhance.
• Artifacts (page 106) are the most powerful and story-rich magic items in
the game, and can only be destroyed in a specific way.
• Gems and Art Objects (page 114) expands the diversity of monetary awards
given to PCs and includes 100 sample art objects.
• Afflictions (page 116) provides a plethora of curses, diseases, and drugs for
use in your games, as well as drug and addiction rules useful in creating
your own afflictions.
• Building Worlds (page 122) explains how to go about building your own
entire world or setting from scratch. This section leads into the next three,
which provide tools to help you flesh out the finer details of specific parts
of your game world.
• Nations (page 130) includes a system to quickly encapsulate a nation in a
stat block that contains all the information you need.
• Settlements (page 132) covers everything from tiny villages to incredible
metropolises. The section explains the settlement’s role in a game and
provides a system to describe a settlement in a stat block with all the
important information.
• Planes (page 136) includes the various planar traits you can use to build
your own planes, and explores all the planes of reality in the Age of Lost
Omens setting as well.
It’s up to you to determine how much of your game you want to customize.
Many GMs use the default rules and creatures, and set their adventures on
Golarion or another published game world. Other GMs devise and incorporate
all-new creatures and places with strange themes that don’t fit in the standard
Pathfinder game or world. Unless you’re building your entire game world from
scratch, you can usually wait to implement any new rules creation until you
think you’ll need it for your next session.
BUILDING VERSUS MODIFYING
Many times, a small adjustment
to an existing creature, item,
adventure, or other part of the
game can serve you just as well
as building something brand new.
Before you delve into creating your
own new content, ask yourself
a few questions. First, does
something similar already exist?
When answering this question,
look beyond the surface level.
Maybe you want a 5th-level clawed
centipede creature that can make
Attacks of Opportunity and that
regenerates unless hit by acid or
fire damage. It might not look very
much like a troll on the surface, but
the statistics for a troll are going to
get you most or all the way there.
Ask yourself what you’ll need to
change between your idea and the
existing material. This will help you
decide between using the original
rule with minimal modification,
using the original with adjustments,
starting with the original as a
framework to build your own, or
just starting from scratch. Finally,
ask yourself how much time you
have to prepare the content, what
overall impact you expect it to
have in your campaign, and how
important any discrepancies from
existing material are to the core
concept. The less important an
element is to your game, or the less
time you’ll be using it at the table,
the more likely you should modify
something that already exists.
2
Tools
55
55
introduction
Gamemastery
Basics
Tools
Subsystems
Variant Rules
NPC Gallery
GLOSSARY
and INDEX
