DEFENSIVE ABILITIES
Active offensive abilities usually fit creatures better than
defensive abilities do. Save defense increases for creatures
that are strongly defense-themed. For martial creatures,
something as simple as a shield and Shield Block is usually
plenty. Defensive abilities often run the risk of being
invisible abilities. For examples of good defensive abilities,
look at spells like sanctuary for ideas, or other spells that
create interesting protective effects instead of just granting
a bonus. If you do want to make a creature defensive, pick
one defensive ability rather than several, since stacking up
multiple defenses can make for a frustrating fight. One solid
style of defensive ability is a mode switch, which causes the
creature to get stronger defenses, but limits its attacks, spells,
or other offensive options.
REACTIVE ABILITIES
Reactions and free actions with triggers can give a creature
an impact outside its turn. This can make the fight more
interesting, but may also be risky. It’s tempting to give every
creature a reaction, but that’s not necessarily a good idea.
To decide whether your creature should have a reaction,
first consider if the creature has the reflexes or insight to
react well in the first place—for instance, an ogre doesn’t
have Attack of Opportunity because it’s a big oaf. Oozes,
constructs, and unintelligent creatures are less likely to have
reactions than others for this reason.
Second, look at the complexity of the encounter your
creature is likely to appear in. If you’ll have a large number
of creatures, skipping reactions can make the fight flow
faster. A creature that’s more likely to fight solo, on the other
hand, might have a reaction to give it a way to continue to
be dangerous amid an onslaught of attacks by the party.
When creating reactions, be careful with “gotcha”
abilities—ones that punish players for making perfectly
reasonable choices, for rolling poorly, and so on. If you
include abilities like this, they need to reinforce the
creature’s core theme and the play style you want it to use
in combat. For example, a creature that Strikes as a reaction
when someone fails an attack roll will encourage PCs to use
their actions on other tactics, rather than attacking multiple
times each turn. Is that what you want? Is this dynamic
essential for making the creature feel like it’s supposed to?
This isn’t the type of ability you’d give to any old creature—
only an incredible duelist or something similar.
Reactions should require something out of the ordinary
to happen, or should be relatively weak if triggered by
something ordinary. A reaction that triggers anytime
someone tries to Strike a creature is likely to be perceived
by the players as uninteresting because it’s so predictable.
The best reactions should be telegraphed so when they
happen, it makes sense to the players. Think of one of the
core reactions of the game: Shield Block. The creature raises
its shield—an obvious action the PCs can see—so when it
blocks damage from an attack, that makes perfect sense.
Similarly, if you made a crystalline creature, you might
have it build up sonic energy in a low thrum, so when it
uses a reaction to release a burst of sonic energy when hit,
the players can say, “Oh, I should have seen that coming.”
rEAction DAmAgE
Reactions should use lower damage, usually that of a
moderate Strike. A reaction that deals area damage might
deal low damage, though use such reactions with caution.
CONSTANT AND AUTOMATIC ABILITIES
Certain abilities shouldn’t use any actions. Auras are a
common constant ability, with frightful presence, an adult
red dragon’s dragon heat, and a xulgath’s stench as notable
examples. An aura needs a range, and if it needs a DC,
you’ll usually set it to the moderate spell DC unless the aura
is one of the creature’s defining concepts. For example, the
xulgath’s stench DC is significantly higher because the aura
is such an iconic part of the creature.
Abilities the creature has no control over should be
automatic. For example, the living wildfire fire elemental
explodes into flame when it dies. It has no option not to,
so this wouldn’t make sense as a reaction or free action.
Conversely, the Ferocity ability is a reaction because it
requires the creature to give itself a last push to stay at 1 HP.
constAnt AnD AutomAtic DAmAgE
Much like for reactions, damage for a constant ability
should be pretty low. Usually this value is just below low
Strike damage. Automatic abilities like the living wildfire’s
explosion ability tend to deal moderate Strike damage or
unlimited-use area damage, and can deal even more if they
happen only after the creature is dead or otherwise no
longer presents a threat.
SKILL ABILITIES
A skilled creature might have abilities related to its skills.
The skill feats in the Core Rulebook make for a good
baseline. Avoid giving your creature skill abilities that
won’t matter in its interactions with PCs.
REVIEW HOLISTICALLY
Now it’s time to look over your completed creature as a
whole and make sure it’s living up to your concept. Can
it do everything you wanted? Does it fit its intended role?
Is there anything you could add or anything superfluous
you could cut to get the creature where it needs to be?
If this creature is built for combat, run through a few
turns in your head. Does it still work decently if it gets
slowed? Can it move into combat against the PCs effectively
given their mobility options compared to its own? Does it
have any abilities it’ll never use given its other actions?
When you’re satisfied with your creation, it’s ready to
hit the table. But that’s not necessarily the end! If you
notice issues during the game, you can fix them on the
spot. It’s your game, and you can freely change what you
wrote if you think differently later on.
2
Tools
69
69
introduction
Gamemastery
Basics
Tools
Subsystems
Variant Rules
NPC Gallery
GLOSSARY
and INDEX
