ENCOUNTER DESIGN
Creating a compelling encounter goes beyond just following the guidelines for selecting
monsters of a given level. Good encounters have a place in the story, compelling adversaries,
interesting locations, and twists and turns to make them dynamic.
Encounters play a fundamental part in roleplaying games,
but it can be tricky to know where to start when building
them. This section covers ways to expand on the basics
provided on page 489 of the Core Rulebook to make
your encounters an exciting and integral part of the plot.
Encounter design goes hand in hand with location, map, and
adventure design. You might set an adventure in a swamp
and populate it with swamp creatures and environmental
features. Or you might have a dungeon denizen in mind,
and structure a section of your dungeon to fit that creature.
When you’re starting out, straightforward encounters of
low or moderate threat can let you get your bearings. Then,
you can increase complexity as you get more confident and
as the PCs collect more tools to use against their foes. The
more encounters you build, the more comfortable you’ll get
with your own personal style. You can always come back
here to get more ideas or advice on executing a certain type
of encounter.
VARIETY
Variety in encounters is essential to let players try new
tactics and give different PCs chances to shine as they face
foes with weak points they’re uniquely suited to exploiting.
Consider the following forms of encounter variety.
 • Theme: Look for ways to include varied creatures
and locations. Even if the PCs delve into a dungeon
inhabited by drow, they should encounter other
creatures, too! All creatures should have a justification
for fitting in, but no place needs to be uniform.
 • Difficulty: A string of moderate-threat encounters can
feel flat. Use low- and even trivial-threat encounters
to give PCs chances to really dominate, and severe-
threat encounters for especially powerful enemies.
Extreme-threat encounters should be used sparingly,
for enemies who match the threat posed by the PCs
and have a solid chance of beating them!
 • Complexity: Use high complexity judiciously, saving it
for important or memorable fights.
 • Encounter Composition: The number of creatures per
encounter and their levels should vary. Higher-level
single enemies, squads of enemies, and large numbers
of lackeys all feel different.
 • Setup: Not all encounters should start and end
the same way. PCs might sneak up on unprepared
enemies, get ambushed by foes hunting them, enter
into a formal duel, or find a diplomatic overture fails
and turns into a fight. On the other side, enemies might
all be taken out, retreat, beg for mercy, or even shift the
encounter to a chase or other phase.
 • Information: Uncertainty can increase the tension
and sense of danger the players feel. Ambushes, fights
against unknown foes or foes behind battlements, and
other scenarios can create this basic uncertainty.
ENCOUNTER LOCATIONS
Choose compelling settings for your encounters. When
encounters take place in a building or lair, the most
significant environmental features originate from the
occupants, both past and present. Think about their tastes,
biology, or wealth. These features could be natural, such as
the sickening reek of decay in the lair of a great predator.
They could also be alchemical, such as a cloud of poisonous
gas, or magical, such as a strange electric current that arcs
through the walls and occasionally leaps out at passersby.
In some cases, you’ll have a location in which an enemy
always appears, and you can design your location to suit that
specific creature. Other times, an encounter might appear in
a variety of places, such as a guard patrol or wandering
monster. In these cases, you’ll need several terrain and
structure options so there’s something interesting about the
environment no matter where the battle takes place.
MAPS AND TERRAIN
Features on the map have a substantial impact on the flow
of combat. Three considerations to keep in mind when
designing a map are maneuverability, line of sight, and
attack ranges. Even empty rooms and corridors can provide
variety based on their size and shape. Narrow passageways
make natural choke points. In particularly small rooms,
space is at a premium, favoring melee combatants and
making area effects hard to aim without friendly fire. By
contrast, huge areas lend themselves to spread-out combat,
which gives plenty of room to use all manner of abilities but
poses challenges for ones with limited range. To make large
rooms more interesting, add furniture, stalagmites, or other
features the PCs and their foes can duck behind for cover.
INHABITANT OR INTRUDER?
In most cases, the PCs enter territory that’s far more
familiar to their foes than it is to them. NPCs and monsters
who live in an area are likely to be adapted to its dangers,
either because they know where they are and how to avoid
them, or because they are unaffected by them. A kobold
in their lair might bait a PC into walking into a trap the
kobold avoided. Marshland may be troublesome terrain for
most PCs, but it poses little inconvenience to amphibious
creatures. When using creatures with the ability to burrow,
climb, or swim, consider incorporating features such as
Gamemastery Guide
46
46
