are traveling on a road over a mountain pass, the terrain is
difficult terrain instead of greater difficult terrain.
The Travel activity assumes you are walking overland. If you
are flying or traveling on water, most hexes are open terrain,
though there are exceptions. Flying into storms or high winds
count as difficult or greater difficult terrain. Traveling down a
river is open terrain, but traveling upriver is difficult or greater
difficult terrain.
RECONNOITER
CONCENTRATION
You spend time surveying and exploring a specific area,
getting the lay of the land and looking for unusual features
and specific sites. Reconnoitering a single hex takes a number
of hexploration activities equal to the number of Travel
activities necessary to traverse the hex—1 for open terrain, 2
for difficult terrain, and 3 for greater difficult terrain. Traveling
on roads doesn’t lessen the time required to Reconnoiter. Once
the hex has been Reconnoitered, you can Map the Area to
reduce your chance of getting lost in that hex (see below). You
automatically find any special feature that doesn’t require a
check to find, and you attempt the appropriate checks to find
hidden special features.
For instance, if you were looking for an obvious rock
formation among some hills, you would spend 2 hexploration
activities to Reconnoiter the hex, and you’d find the rock
formation. But if you were looking for a hidden tengu
monastery somewhere in some deep forests, after spending
2 activities to Reconnoiter the forest hex, you would have to
succeed at a Perception check as part of your Reconnoiter
activity to find the monastery.
INDIVIDUAL ACTIVITIES
Not all hexploration activities need to be accomplished
as a group. In place of using a hexploration activity to
Travel or Reconnoiter, each individual group member can
instead perform one of these individual activities.
FORTIFY CAMP
You can spend time fortifying your camp for defense with
a successful Crafting check (typically at a trained or expert
DC). Anyone keeping watch or defending the camp gains a +2
circumstance bonus to initiative rolls and Perception checks to
Seek creatures attempting to sneak up on the camp.
MAP THE AREA
CONCENTRATION
As long as your group has successfully Reconnoitered the hex,
you can use this activity to create an accurate map of the hex
with a successful Survival check (typically at a trained or expert
DC). When you have an accurate map of the hex, the DC of any
check to navigate that hex is reduced by 2.
exiSting activitieS
Characters can use the Subsist downtime activity, which
follows the same rules but assumes they’re using it after
8 hours or less of exploration. Any skill feats or other
abilities that apply to Subsist normally still apply here.
In general, the various exploration activities found in the
sidebar on page 498 of the Core Rulebook (except Hustle)
can be used as individual hexploration activities, as can
skill actions in Chapter 4 of the Core Rulebook, at the
GM’s discretion.
RANDOM ENCOUNTERS
When exploring, there is always a chance the PC will
stumble upon random encounters, depending on the terrain.
At the start of each day of hexploration, roll a flat check and
consult the appropriate terrain type on Table 3–7: Random
Encounter Chance. If the flat check is a success, the PCs have
a random encounter, and on a critical success, they have two
random encounters. Roll on Table 3–8: Random Encounter
Type to determine the type of encounter. Once you know the
type of the encounter, either choose from the list you made
for that region or choose your own.
TABLE 3–7: RANDOM ENCOUNTER CHANCE
Terrain Type
Flat Check DC*
Aquatic
17
Arctic
17
Desert
17
Forest
14
Mountain
16
Plains
12
Swamp
14
* On a road or river, decrease the DC by 2. If PCs are flying,
 increase the DC by 3, but choose a hazard or monster

 that is relevant to flying PCs.
TABLE 3–8: RANDOM ENCOUNTER TYPE
1d10
Encounter
1–5
Harmless
6–7
Hazard
8–10
Creature
SWITCHING OUT OF HEXPLORATION
Most short encounters do not affect the number of
hexploration activities that the PCs can perform during
the day, but when the PCs take on multiple encounters
or engage in activities that take hours rather than
minutes, you’ll want to deduct the time from their
available hexploration activities. For the story’s sake,
it’s best to think of hexploration activities as the various
things that the PCs have time to do in the daylight
hours. For instance, maybe the group spends 2 of their
3 hexploration activities Reconnoitering a hex, finding
a tengu monastery, and learning that it is a sprawling
complex underneath a small wooded hill. You might
decide that the PCs found it in the evening, and they have
the choice between making a foray into the complex late
in the day or pursuing some individual activities, camping
for the night, and starting off fresh in the morning.
3
Subsystems
173
173
introduction
Gamemastery
Basics
Tools
Subsystems
Variant Rules
NPC Gallery
GLOSSARY
and INDEX
