INFILTRATION
Not all elements of an adventure can be resolved with force of arms and the sizzle
of deadly magic. Sometimes subtlety is required to circumvent foes or accomplish a
goal. When the characters need to rely on improvisation and fast thinking to infiltrate
a stronghold or organization to save the day, the infiltration subsystem provides a
framework for those adventures.
An infiltration requires the heroes to employ guile and
subtlety to achieve one or more objectives without
directly confronting their enemies. The PCs’ goal might be
sneaking into a den of thieves to relieve them of ill-gotten
gains, navigating the winding passages of the city watch
headquarters to break a friend out of prison, or putting
themselves in just the right spot to snatch up the right
person or the correct item at just the right time. Whatever
the case, the heroes are working to avoid drawing the
attention of an opposing party, such as the members of a
thieves’ guild, the prison guards, or the invited guests at an
upscale gala. Should the heroes draw too much attention,
they might be attacked, arrested, or thrown out—in any
case, blocked from accomplishing their goal.
An infiltration is fundamentally a roleplaying activity.
The players narrate their characters’ actions in response
to the situations around them, and the infiltration
subsystem provides a framework to measure incremental
success within the overall endeavor. An infiltration takes
place over the course of multiple rounds, though it’s up to
you to determine how long a round is. One round might
encompass 10 minutes or 1 hour of in-world time, or
something completely different depending on the story
and your group’s preferences.
BUILDING AN INFILTRATION
When creating an infiltration, you’ll want to start with the
party’s broad goals and an idea of how much time you
and your players want to spend. The more complex an
infiltration, the longer it will take to play out at the table.
OBJECTIVE
The first thing you’ll need to determine is the party’s
objective, or broad goal. Maybe the PCs need to find their
way into some hidden sanctum, find a particular person
within an organization, locate and get away with a bit of
treasure, or plant a piece of evidence. An infiltration can
consist of a single objective, but a more complex one might
include two or more objectives in sequence—the PCs
might first need to find a way to enter the cult’s sanctum,
then open the vault, and then escape with the relic.
To achieve an objective, the PCs must overcome a
certain number of obstacles—specific challenges the PCs
face, such as getting across a moat or past a nosy butler.
For a simple objective, they might need to overcome only
one or two obstacles, while a more complex one might
require several.
It’s a good idea to offer more obstacles as options than
the characters need to overcome, and the PCs don’t all
have to choose the same ones. This represents the fact that
there’s more than one way into a castle, and allows PCs to
choose obstacles that play to their strengths. It also means
you have more options you can adapt if the PCs decide on
a truly novel way to tackle their objective.
Once a character has overcome the required number of
obstacles to reach the objective, they move on to the next
objective. This might mean that some characters move on
to a second objective and start making progress toward it
while other characters are still completing obstacles from
the first objective. When all characters have completed the
final objective, the infiltration is a success!
While the characters are pursuing their objectives,
however, they need to avoid notice. Awareness Points (AP)
measure the extent to which an opposing party is aware of
the PCs’ actions, and apply to the party as a whole. As the
PCs’ Awareness Points increase, the infiltration becomes
more difficult as the opposition shores up its defenses.
If the PCs generate too many Awareness Points, they are
found out and their infiltration fails altogether!
OBSTACLES
Each obstacle has certain statistics that define how it works
in play. Infiltration Points (IP) represent a character’s
progress toward overcoming an obstacle. Each obstacle
requires gaining a certain number of Infiltration Points to
overcome—typically 1 or 2, but some challenging obstacles
might require more. PCs can gain Infiltration Points in
multiple ways—usually through a skill or Perception
check, but sometimes another roll or even the use of a
spell or item. These methods are listed in the obstacle’s
Overcome entry. Unlike obstacles for chases, these use a
difficulty band for the PCs’ level, rather than using set DCs.
The Overcome entry also lists whether the PCs need to
overcome an object individually or as a group. For individual
obstacles, each PC needs to earn the required number of
Infiltration Points themself, while for group obstacles, all
PCs working toward that obstacle pool their Infiltration
Points toward it together. For example, each PC trying to
scale a wall needs to earn points on their own, but the PCs
could work together to search a guildhall for clues, and once
one PC has picked a lock, everyone can enter.
A particular PC can overcome an individual obstacle
only once during an objective; likewise, the party can
overcome a group obstacle only once.
Gamemastery Guide
160
160
