FREE ARCHETYPE
Sometimes the story of your game calls for a group
where everyone is a pirate or an apprentice at a magic
school. The free archetype variant introduces a shared
aspect to every character without taking away any of that
character’s existing choices. It can also provide a lighter
version of dual-class characters by giving everyone a free
multiclass archetype.
BUILDING A CHARACTER
The only difference between a normal character and a
free-archetype character is that the character receives
an extra class feat at 2nd level and every even level
thereafter that they can use only for archetype feats.
Depending on the needs of the group and the theme of
the game, you might restrict the free feats to those of a
single archetype each character in the group has (for a
shared backstory), those of archetypes fitting a certain
theme (such as only ones from magical archetypes in a
game set in a magic school), or entirely unrestricted if
you just want a higher-powered game.
If the group all has the same archetype or draws from a
limited list, you might want to ignore the free archetype’s
normal restriction of selecting a certain number of feats
before taking a new archetype. That way a character can
still pursue another archetype that also fits their character.
PLAYING WITH FREE ARCHETYPES
Free-archetype characters are a bit more versatile and
powerful than normal, but usually not so much that they
unbalance your game. However, due to the characters’
increased access to archetype feats, you should place a limit
on the number of feats that scale based on a character’s
number of archetype feats (mainly multiclass Resiliency
feats). Allowing a character to benefit from a number of
these feats equal to half their level is appropriate, as this
is the maximum number of feats you could use to take
archetype feats without this variant.
ANCESTRY PARAGON
Most characters have some elements that connect them to
their ancestry but identify more strongly with their class
or unique personality. Sometimes, though, a character is
the embodiment of their ancestry to the point that it’s
of equal importance to their class. For a game where
an ancestral background is a major theme and such
characters are the norm, your group might consider using
the ancestry paragon variant.
BUILDING AN ANCESTRY PARAGON CHARACTER
When creating an ancestry paragon character, instead of
starting with one ancestry feat and gaining another at
5th, 9th, 13th, and 17th levels, the character starts with
two ancestry feats and gains another at every odd level
thereafter (3rd, 5th, 7th, 9th, and so on) for a total of 11
ancestry feats.
PLAYING WITH ANCESTRY PARAGON CHARACTERS
Ancestry paragon characters have a bit more versatility
and power than other characters, though their extra
abilities are usually limited to themes the ancestry already
was suited for. It’s unlikely to affect the game balance of
combat encounters, but it might make exploration and
social challenges easier for the heroes.
SIMPLIFIED ANCESTRIES
The variants presented so far have mostly been aimed at
groups looking to increase their nuance in exchange for
greater character complexity. However, sometimes players
are looking for something a little simpler instead, or want
to increase the complexity in one area and decrease it
elsewhere, keeping a rough balance. In games where a
character’s ancestry is only incidental and each PC is
more defined by their class and individual characteristics,
simplified ancestries allows your group to pick an ancestry
and go.
BUILDING A SIMPLIFIED ANCESTRY CHARACTER
When choosing an ancestry for a simplified ancestry
character, you gain the ancestry’s normal abilities at 1st
level, choose a heritage, and gain the appropriate lore feat
(Dwarven Lore for dwarves, for example) as your ancestry
feat. Simplified ancestry characters never gain ancestry
feats beyond that first lore feat. If you want to keep the
power level of your game consistent, you can replace the
ancestry feats gained at higher levels with general feats.
SIMPLIFIED SKILL FEATS
The standard system gives feats specifically to spend on
skills to let PCs gain fun, skill-based options without
feeling like they had to sacrifice a feat that could have
improved their class’s core specialties. In some games,
especially those focused on combat with little exploration,
downtime, or social interaction, the PCs might have more
skill feats than they need. The simplified skill feats variant
allows you to reduce this aspect of decision-making.
BUILDING A SIMPLIFIED SKILL FEAT CHARACTER
Simplified skill feat characters don’t receive any skill feats,
even from their backgrounds. They still gain general feats
and can use those to select skill feats if they want a crucial
ability. You may want to allow rogues to gain skill feats,
but at the normal advancement most characters have,
instead of their usual double advancement.
PLAYING WITH SIMPLIFIED SKILL FEAT CHARACTERS
While you probably won’t need to adjust combat
challenges at all for simplified skill feat characters, skill-
based challenges—especially social challenges—will be
tougher, especially at higher levels where it’s expected
characters will have more efficient skill-based abilities
due to skill feats. If you prefer more baseline difficulty,
you could adjust the expectations down slightly.
Gamemastery Guide
194
194
