form to its aspects (described below) as part of the story
of the campaign. Use campaign relics to reinforce and
foreshadow the themes of your game. Relics come to those
who need them to do great deeds, after all, so finding a
relic with the perfect aspects for your future challenges is
entirely likely. Unlike background relics, campaign relics
typically have magical abilities when first found.
RELIC ASPECTS
Each relic is associated with aspects—typically two—that
speak to its overall concept and purpose. The individual
gifts each have an associated aspect. You should almost
always select gifts that have an aspect matching one of
those found on the relic. For example, a brass dagger
recovered from the City of Brass might have the fire and
mind aspects, which means that it could have the flare bolt
gift (which has the fire aspect), but not the rolling geode
gift (which has the earth aspect).
Usually you can determine at least one aspect of a relic
easily by looking at the history of the item or personality
of the character. For example, if a player decides that their
background relic is a rusty mace wielded by the character’s
great grandmother in battle against rising undead hordes,
the mace might have the life aspect, as it was used to slay
countless undead creatures. There’s no harm in letting the
player choose an aspect for a background relic; through
play, the item will reveal another aspect associated with
it. In the previous example, the mace might reveal itself
to have powers against demons as well, in which case its
aspects might be celestial and life.
ADVANCING A RELIC
As a relic’s bearer performs mighty deeds and advances their
story, the relic gets stronger. The most basic advancement
for a relic is its level, which always matches that of its
owner. Weapons and armor can gain fundamental runes
normally. You decide what, if any, property runes can be
added to a given relic; by default, they can’t have property
runes, like any other specific item.
The more complex advancement comes from gifts.
Table 2–22: Relic Gifts shows the typical number of gifts
a relic should have at a given level, but relics don’t follow
this strictly. Rather, gifts arise according to the pace of
the story, the needs of the campaign, and the relationship
between the character and the relic. Generally speaking,
this results in a relic gaining one gift for every 4 levels
its bearer has, but this might fluctuate as the campaign
progresses. For example, a relic might gain its first gift at
4th level after the bearer defeats a powerful foe. It might
then gain its second at 7th, after they perform a special
ritual. That same relic might not gain another gift until
13th level and then again at 16th as the player reaches
other major milestones.
The gift types—minor, major, and grand—indicate
their general power level. Again, the table indicates what’s
generally appropriate at certain levels, but you can alter them
as you see fit. You should usually avoid giving a minor gift at
10th level or higher, because it just won’t be that impressive,
though some of them scale well enough to be interesting at
higher levels. The Gold Piece Equivalent entry for each gift
helps you determine how much you should reduce treasure
when using relics (see Adjusting Treasure below).
TABLE 2–22: RELIC GIFTS
 Number of
Minimum
Gift
Gold Piece

Gifts
Level
Type
Equivalent

1
1st
Minor
20 gp

2
5th
Minor
160 gp

3
9th
Major
700 gp

4
13th
Major
3,000 gp

5
17th
Grand
15,000 gp
You decide what gifts a relic gains, generally by either
selecting a single gift or offering two paths for the relic to
grow and allowing the player to choose, but this should
be informed by the story and the nature of the character
bearing the relic. A relic should complement the bearer,
bolstering the bearer’s strengths and helping to overcome
their weaknesses. Within that framework, you should try to
maintain a cohesive theme for the relic.
ADJUSTING TREASURE
When you incorporate relics into your game, you can
adjust the treasure gained by the party down to account
for the relics increasing in power. Essentially, some of
the treasure from Table 10–9: Party Treasure by Level
on page 509 of the Core Rulebook should be replaced
with relic seeds and gifts instead. You can use the relic’s
minimum level, replacing a permanent item of that level,
or you can use the gp equivalent. Keep in mind that relic
gifts are often a little more powerful than other items
with the same Price even when they start out, and they
often scale without any additional costs, so PCs with
relics will usually be a bit more powerful.
If you prefer, you can grant relics in addition to other
rewards. This means PCs will be much more powerful,
but you’re rewarding their investment in the story.
MAKING RELIC SEEDS
A relic seed can be quite simple: imagine a standard
item with two aspects and an appearance that matches
the theme. You can also use an existing magic item for
a campaign relic; pick two aspects for it, and tweak its
appearance or characteristics to make it clearly different
from other items of its type. You can choose a tradition
for the seed and apply that trait to the seed and all the
gifts of the seed. This tradition might be derived from
the background of the item, or it might appear or change
through story moments involving the relic.
If you want a relic to have an additional special benefit,
you can design it to grant a bonus to a skill, typically a +1
item bonus for a 3rd-level relic.
2
Tools
95
95
introduction
Gamemastery
Basics
Tools
Subsystems
Variant Rules
NPC Gallery
GLOSSARY
and INDEX
