TRAIT ABILITIES
Creatures with certain traits tend to have similar abilities
to one another. Many of them appear here, to help you
make your creatures match the theme of the trait when
you build your own creatures.
ABERRATION
Senses usually darkvision
Languages usually Aklo
AEON
Traits LN, monitor
Languages Utopian and other planar languages; envisioning
for true aeons
Weaknesses chaotic
Damage Attacks always deal additional lawful damage.
AIR
Languages usually Auran
Speed Many air creatures have fly Speeds.
ANGEL
Traits good (usually NG), celestial
Aura Angels each have a unique aura based on how they serve
as messengers and how they deliver those messages.
Speed usually has a fly Speed
Rituals usually angelic messenger
ANIMAL
Traits N
Languages none
Int –4 or –5
ARCHON
Traits LG, celestial
Virtue Ability Archons each represent a specific virtue, like
courage or hope, and have a special ability based on the
virtue they represent.
ASTRAL
Senses darkvision
AZATA
Traits CG, celestial
Weaknesses cold iron, evil
Freedom Ability Azatas each represent a specific freedom, like
free expression or free love, and have a special ability based
on the freedom they represent.
BEAST
Int –3 or higher
CELESTIAL
Traits good
Senses darkvision
Languages Celestial
Saves often a +1 status bonus to all saves vs. magic
Weaknesses evil
Damage Attacks always deal additional good damage.
COLD
Immunities or Resistances cold
CONSTRUCT
Traits Many constructs lack minds and have the mindless trait.
Immunities bleed, death effects, diseased, doomed, drained,
fatigued, healing, necromancy, nonlethal attacks, paralyzed,
poison, sickened, unconscious; if mindless, add mental
DAEMON
Traits NE, fiend
Languages Daemonic, telepathy 100 feet
Immunities death effects
Death Ability Daemons each represent a specific kind of
death, like death by disease or starvation, and have a
special ability based on the method of death they represent.
DEMON
Traits CE, fiend
Languages Abyssal, telepathy (usually 100 feet)
Weaknesses cold iron, good
HP typically high to account for their multiple weaknesses
Sin Vulnerability Demons each represent a specific sin, like
envy or wrath, and have a special vulnerability based on
the sin they represent. This should be something the PCs
can exploit through their actions, which should then deal
mental damage to the demon. The amount of damage
should be based on how easy the vulnerability is to exploit.
Divine Innate Spells usually 5th-level dimension door and at-
will 4th-level dimension door
Rituals usually Abyssal pact
Sin Ability Demons also have a special ability based on the
sin they represent, which either makes them better embody
the sin or instills that sin in others.
DEVIL
Traits LE, fiend
Languages Infernal, telepathy (usually 100 feet)
Immunities fire; Resistances physical (except silver), poison
Divine Innate Spells usually one 5th-level dimension door and
at-will 4th-level dimension door
Rituals usually Infernal pact
Infernal Hierarchy Ability Devils each have an ability
corresponding to the role they play in the infernal hierarchy,
typically focused around control or being controlled, from
the lowly lemure’s Subservience to the gelugon’s Tactician
of Cocytus and the pit fiend’s Devil Shaping.
DRAGON
Senses darkvision
Languages usually Draconic
Speed usually has a fly Speed
Gamemastery Guide
70
70
