Stranger and more powerful than other magic items,
artifacts can change the course of history in the right
hands—or the wrong hands. Simply finding an artifact
is a pivotal moment in your campaign, and its presence
then ripples throughout your entire game, warping the
story around it. Some entire adventures revolve around
one artifact!
Adding an artifact to your game should never be taken
lightly. Artifacts shouldn’t be found in normal treasure
hoards, even at 20th level, and you’ll need to structure
moments in your plot that play into the artifact’s presence.
Prepare yourself for encounters being easily overcome
by the artifact. That doesn’t mean you shouldn’t include
such encounters, since part of the thrill of an artifact
is that it breaks the normal rules! Though you should
include an artifact mindfully, you should allow it to have
its full impact so that it can do itself and the story of your
game justice.
ARTIFACT RULES
Every artifact is an item with the artifact trait. This trait
means two things: the item can’t be crafted by normal
means, and it can’t be damaged by normal means.
Artifacts are always rare or unique. The ones found here
are all 20th level or higher, which is typical for artifacts.
The other rules for wearing or using the item still apply.
ARTIFACT DESTRUCTION
An artifact’s stat block usually has a destruction entry.
This details the extraordinary method needed to destroy
the item. These entries can be highly specific. It could take
completing an entire quest, or even an entire campaign,
to finally destroy an artifact. However, the story of your
game might require something different, so you can
always change an artifact’s destruction requirement for
your game.
CREATING AN ARTIFACT
Mechanically, an artifact functions in the game just like
any other item—only the scope of its abilities is different.
Artifacts can and should do things normal items can’t,
so you don’t need to apply the normal limitations on
creating items.
When you’re making an artifact, start by defining its
role in the story. Is it meant to be a powerful weapon
against the forces of darkness? A mercurial force
injecting random chance? A terrible danger that needs to
be destroyed? The artifact’s role in the story affects the
ARTIFACTS
A globe of utter darkness that consumes all things. Powerful weapons created in antiquity
carrying the hopes of an entire people. A simple deck of cards representing fortunes both
transcendent and deadly. These are artifacts—items of incredible power, spoken of in
thousands of stories and beyond the capability of modern people to create.
features you give it. Come up with some story beats that
make sense for the item, then create abilities that enable
those moments. An artifact can have more abilities than a
typical item—just make sure they all fit its theme.
Give your item the artifact trait and either the rare trait
(if there multiple items of its kind), or the unique trait (if
only one exists). Other traits work like they do for any
other item. An artifact is usually 20th level or higher, but
its specific level is up to you. Imagine who created it and
what their level likely was.
Though you can disregard most of the normal
limitations on items, be careful not to create an artifact
that will undermine your story. If your item’s abilities are
so useful or strong that the best option in any battle is
to always use the artifact to annihilate the opposition, the
artifact has taken over your story instead of serving it. A
5th-level character with access to 10th-level spells through
an artifact can lead to incredible stories, but if the DC is so
high that enemies are guaranteed to critically fail against
those spells except on a natural 20, the item will probably
distort play more than you intended. To avoid this, you
might set the item’s DCs, attack bonuses, and the spell levels
of its offensive abilities significantly lower than they would
be for an item of its level, especially if they can be used at
will. You could also create artifacts that use the wielder’s
spell DC instead of having their own DC, to make them
more broadly usable at a wider range of levels. In addition,
an artifact’s abilities should be somewhat narrow in their
application; aim to make your artifacts very powerful in
certain situations, rather than having broadly applicable
abilities. For instance, the orbs of dragonkind each work
against only a certain kind of dragon, which makes them
hugely powerful when facing that one creature, but not
against every foe the PCs run across.
ARTIFACTS
Countless artifacts have been created over the ages, only
a few of which are described here.
AXE OF THE DWARVEN LORDS
ITEM 26
UNIQUE
ARTIFACT
CONJURATION
MAGICAL
TRANSMUTATION
Usage held in 2 hands; Bulk 3
The blade of this +4 major striking keen returning speed
dwarven waraxe is carved with an intricate design depicting
countless generations of great dwarven warriors and leaders.
The axe has the thrown 30 feet weapon trait, in addition to
the normal weapon traits for a dwarven waraxe. Strikes with
the axe deal an additional 1d6 damage to orcs. While the axe
Gamemastery Guide
106
106
