Step 4. Terrain and Environment: Sketch in interesting
terrain features such as forests, deserts, or tundra. You may
want to differentiate these environs, separating coniferous
and deciduous forests from tropical jungles or arctic taiga.
Environs not specifically called out on an overland map
are typically presumed to be some variety of grassland.
Step 5. Civilization: Now you’re ready to place the
elements of civilization. Major cities should typically be
located near fresh water and natural resources. Major
roads connect larger settlements, circumventing forests
and other difficult environs, but they may wind through
mountain passes when lucrative commerce demands
it. Add smaller settlements along your roads, further
connected by smaller roads and trails. Finally, draw
political boundaries and mark other sites of interest.
CIVILIZATION
With the major geographical features and terrain of your
world decided, you’ll next want to establish significant
nations and settlements.
When it comes to designing a world’s cultures, you
might want to focus primarily on those areas the party
is likely to explore first. This allows you to establish
the details and depth of one region’s peoples before
expanding out to address others. That’s not to say you
shouldn’t have ideas about the cultures beyond your
starting settlement—it just means you don’t need to
decide every detail of every culture all at once.
As always, you don’t need to demarcate every realm
on the globe or indicate every town, hamlet, and thorp.
Keep your focus on what you need for your story and
your adventure—leaving terra incognita can lead to stories
down the road as the party ventures further from home.
SOCIETAL BENCHMARKS
The following sections can help you establish certain
truths about your world as a whole. From there, you can
decide the details of specific cultural groups, including
whether they deviate from these global standards.
teChnoLogy
Throughout history, a major driver of world culture
has been the continuous advancement of technology
in warfare, agriculture, and industry. The following
categories roughly approximate real‑world technological
levels, but progress might vary on your world. What
heights of technology have been achieved? Have any
groups fallen behind or leaped ahead?
Primeval: Weapons and tools in this early era are
crafted primarily from bone, wood, or stone. Knowledge
of stonecutting allows early civilizations to raise stone
walls and buildings.
Ancient: Advancements in mining and metallurgy lead
to weapons and tools made from bronze. Crop rotation
and storage in granaries ensure greater survival in times
of famine. Trade between river and coastal settlements
is aided by oar‑ and sail‑powered galleys. Chariots come
into strong use during warfare.
Classical: Superior military tactics and engineered
roads allow for rapid deployment of infantry wielding
iron weapons and aided by mounted cavalry. Advances
in complex irrigation and construction of aqueducts
lead to an abundance of harvest foods and dramatic
improvements to sanitation.
Medieval: Warfare in this era is defined by iron armor,
crossbows, and weapons forged of fine steel.
Enlightenment: The development of black powder
and muzzle‑loaded, single‑shot firearms greatly changes
warfare, making plate armor mostly obsolete. Larger
ships permit ocean crossings and long‑range trade to
distant shores. The printing press speeds literacy and the
dissemination of new ideas.
Steam: Steam engines replace conveyances drawn
by animal power or sail, leading to a significant shift
from wood fuel to coal. Further advances in science
lead to dirigible airships and observation balloons.
Simple firearms are replaced by repeating revolvers and
bolt action rifles.
divine invoLvement
What is the nature of the gods? Do they even exist? If
so, are they omnipotent and omniscient? How does a
follower request their divine favor? The answers to these
questions will help you determine how strongly divine
faith impacts the cultures of your world.
None: Deities do not exist in this world, or if they do,
they are oblivious to or completely unconcerned with
mortal affairs. If they exist, they don’t make their presence
known, nor do they grant power to their worshippers.
Limited: Deities exist, though they remain aloof from
the mortal world and make their divine presence known
only to a chosen few.
Accepted: Divine influence is an accepted fact of
everyday life. Their will is enacted through priests and
organized religions. Divine avatars may appear in the
world during extreme circumstances.
Ubiquitous: Deities live among mortals, exerting their
divine will directly. Gods rule entire nations, commanding
absolute obedience from their faithful followers.
magiC
Does magic exist? If so, which traditions are available?
What are the sources of a spellcaster’s power, and how do
they gain and channel that magic?
CAMPAIGN REFERENCE
Before the campaign starts, you might want to begin the
outline for a campaign reference: a living document that you
can easily review and annotate during gameplay and that
records the geography, factions, history, characters, and
plots central to your campaign.
Gamemastery Guide
124
124
