When picking abilities, you can also consider taking from
the relic gifts found on pages 96–105. Even if your game
doesn’t use relics, that section has plenty of choices sorted
by theme. If you do, keep in mind that relic abilities are
typically more powerful than usual for their level and that
those abilities wouldn’t scale on a normal magic item.
HELD ITEMS
Usually, held items should require manipulation to use, with
Interact activations. They are most often tools, implements,
items that can be thrown, and the like. Imagine a PC
physically using the item and what that looks like.
Remember that held items are more challenging for
martial characters to use, compared to spellcasters or
hands-free characters, like monks. A barbarian might have
to give up a two-handed weapon to use a held item, and so is
less likely to use one. This means you might want to design
held items specifically for non-martial characters, or have
them be items a martial character uses outside of combat.
OILS
Oils are consumables you slather onto items or, rarely,
creatures. They provide an interesting opportunity to apply
effects to other items. Just remember not to accidentally
make something that should be applied topically into
a potion; for instance, a petrified character can’t drink
an anti-petrifying potion! The actions an oil takes to use
depend on how thoroughly it needs to be applied. For one
used outside of combat, it could take a minute or more.
POTIONS
Potions are consumables in the truest sense; you literally
consume them. Since the action of drinking isn’t easy to
split up, they take only a single action to activate. This
advantage makes potions that replicate spell effects
incredibly powerful, and it’s the reason potions are nearly
always higher level than scrolls with similar effects.
RUNES
Property runes are a fun and versatile way to customize
weapons and armor without throwing away the previous
items. Each should be fairly simple, especially at lower levels,
because combining runes can make things overcomplicated.
Compare to other properties to determine the right level.
SCROLLS
You’ll never need to design a new scroll, but use them as
a comparison when designing other types of consumables.
If you’re designing a consumable that seems like it’s much
better than a scroll of its level—or faster to activate—you
should probably raise the item’s level or adjust the effect.
SHIELDS
Use the sturdy shields as benchmarks for the best possible
shield Hardness, HP, and BT for a shield of that level. Your
new shield should have less than those benchmarks since it
also does something else, and you can use the magnitude of
the reduction to build room for creative defensive abilities.
STAVES
You’ll need to come up with a theme and curate a list of
spells that stay close to that theme, typically one to three
per spell level, all on one spell list. A staff is always at least
3 levels higher than the minimum level for a spellcaster to
cast the highest-level spell it contains, so a staff with up to
4th-level spells would be at least a 10th-level item.
STRUCTURES
Structures are evocative and make great tertiary items,
quirky but not part of a combat build. This allows you to
price them affordably, but make sure there isn’t some hidden
abuse where the structure drastically alters encounters. The
structure trait is intended to help as a starting point.
TALISMANS
Because talismans are affixed ahead of time but don’t take
an action to retrieve, they reward forethought and planning.
Those that can be activated as a free action also have the
best action efficiency of any consumable. In the same way
scrolls reward specific spellcasters, talisman requirements
reward particular types of characters. Talismans might
grant a single use of a feat, with an additional effect if
the character already has that feat. Think of talismans
as martial characters’ answer to scrolls to expand on the
options of the non-spellcasters at your table.
WANDS
You won’t need to design basic magic wands, but you
might want a special wand. When designing a new special
wand, your wand’s level will usually be 1 to 2 levels higher
than the basic wand, depending on the magnitude of the
special effect. Remember that if you make the wand 2
levels higher, it’s now competing with wands of a spell a
whole level higher, so the special effect should be worth
that cost!
WORN ITEMS
Worn items vary wildly in their effects, but they all take up
one of a character’s 10 invested items. Remember to include
the item’s worn entry, if applicable (or — if you could
imagine someone wearing 10 or more with no difficulty).
POTIONS VS. ELIXIRS
Alchemical items and magic items follow a similar price
economy based on their level, but the effects of potions
can be a bit broader and more directly magical. Alchemists
can also make extremely large numbers of elixirs at an
item level equal to their alchemist level, so if a 17th level
elixir was competing with a 9th level spell for power, an
alchemist would be packing the equivalent of over 40 9th
level spells, and potentially quickened spells thanks to the
single action activation.
Gamemastery Guide
84
84
