DISEASES
Exposure to disease can be a hazard, such as when PCs come
into contact with a plague-ridden corpse; such hazards
grant XP as a simple hazard of the disease’s level. When
a disease gives a sickened condition that can’t be reduced
until it runs its course, that typically means the disease has
symptoms such as a difficulty swallowing, loss of appetite,
or nausea that make eating and drinking difficult but not
impossible. Despite the condition’s prohibition on eating
or drinking, a creature can slowly and carefully eat and
drink as long as they aren’t in an encounter.
BOG ROT
DISEASE 0
DISEASE
Sometimes called bog foot, bog rot is caused by having
waterlogged feet for an extended period of time. In addition to
the usual cures for an affliction, bog rot can be cured through
amputation of the affected appendages.
Saving Throw DC 13 Fortitude; Onset 1 day; Stage 1 clumsy
1 (1 day); Stage 2 clumsy 1 and a –5‑foot status penalty
to Speed (1 day); Stage 3 clumsy 2 and a –10‑foot status
penalty to Speed (1 day)
SCARLET FEVER
DISEASE 1
DISEASE
The relatively simple sore throat caused by this disease leads
many victims to initially dismiss it as a mild illness, but scarlet
fever can be deadly if left untreated. You can’t reduce your
sickened condition while affected with scarlet fever.
Saving Throw DC 13 Fortitude; Onset 2 days; Stage 1 sickened
1 (1 day); Stage 2 sickened 2 (1 day); Stage 3 sickened 3 and
can’t speak (1 day); Stage 4 death
TETANUS
DISEASE 1
DISEASE
An infection introduced through open wounds, tetanus can
produce stiffness, muscle spasms strong enough to break
bones, and ultimately death.
Saving Throw DC 14 Fortitude; Onset 10 days; Stage 1 clumsy
1 (1 week); Stage 2 clumsy 2 and can’t speak (1 day); Stage 3
paralyzed with spasms (1 day); Stage 4 death
TUBERCULOSIS
DISEASE 1
DISEASE
An extended respiratory disease, tuberculosis can pose
particular challenges to spellcasters and some performers due
to the intense coughing fits it produces.
Saving Throw DC 15 Fortitude; Onset 1 week; Stage 1 carrier
with no effects (1 week); Stage 2 coughing requires you to
succeed at a DC 5 flat check to Cast a Spell with a verbal
component or Activate an Item with a command component
(1 week); Stage 3 fatigued, can’t recover from the fatigued
condition, and coughing requires a successful DC 15 flat
check to Cast a Spell with a verbal component or Activate
an Item with a command component (1 week); Stage 4
unconscious (1 week); Stage 5 death
MALARIA
DISEASE 2
DISEASE
A pernicious disease spread by bloodsucking insects, malaria
sometimes enters long periods of dormancy. If you succumb
to malaria, you may continue to be periodically affected by the
disease, even if you’re cured. You can’t reduce your sickened
condition while affected with malaria.
 Saving Throw DC 16 Fortitude; Onset 10 days; Stage 1
sickened 1 (1 day); Stage 2 sickened 2 (1 day); Stage 3
sickened 2, and disease recurs every 1d4 months even if
cured (1 day); Stage 4 unconscious (1 day); Stage 5 death
BUBONIC PLAGUE
DISEASE 3
DISEASE
This widespread illness can sweep through entire communities,
leaving few unaffected. The first indication of the disease is
a telltale swelling of glands. In some cases, the disease can
move into your lungs (pneumonic plague) or blood (septicemic
plague), which is even more fatal. If you have bubonic plague,
you can’t remove the fatigued condition while affected.
Saving Throw DC 17 Fortitude; Onset 1 day; Stage 1 fatigued
(1 day); Stage 2 enfeebled 2 and fatigued (1 day); Stage 3
enfeebled 3, fatigued, and take 1d6 persistent bleed damage
every 1d20 minutes (1 day)
SCARLET LEPROSY
DISEASE 4
DISEASE
VIRULENT
Scarlet leprosy is widely feared for its devastating effects,
crushing bones and organs while making recovery nearly
impossible. Damage taken from scarlet leprosy can’t be healed
until the disease is cured.
Saving Throw DC 19 Fortitude; Onset 1 day; Stage 1 2d6
bludgeoning damage (1 day); Stage 2 2d6 bludgeoning
damage, and whenever you gain the wounded condition,
increase the condition value by 1 (1 day); Stage 3 4d6
bludgeoning damage and can’t heal any Hit Point damage
(1 day)
BONECHILL
DISEASE 5
DISEASE
NECROMANCY
PRIMAL
If you are wounded and exposed to persistent cold, you might
contract bonechill.
Saving Throw DC 20 Fortitude; Onset 1 day; Stage 1 clumsy 1
(1 day); Stage 2 clumsy 2 and can’t heal cold damage until
this disease is cured (1 day); Stage 3 clumsy 3 and all cold
temperature effects are one step more severe for the victim
(Core Rulebook 517) (1 day); Stage 4 paralyzed and all cold
temperature effects are one step more severe for the victim
(1 day)
CHOKING DEATH
DISEASE 6
DISEASE
This disease is capable of wiping out nations or even entire
continents. A few pockets of the disease still remain in Iobaria,
keeping that region’s population sparse.
Saving Throw DC 22 Fortitude; Onset 1 day; Stage 1 hoarse
Gamemastery Guide
118
118
