 • Follow character growth. Respond to how the
PCs changed in previous adventures. Their next
undertaking should reflect who they are now.
 • Escalate! Build on the previous story and show that
the next threat is scarier. The first adventure may
endanger a village, the next a city, the next a whole
nation, and so on.
 • Bring in recurring characters. A recurring character
is especially strong if they appear in similar
circumstances each time. For instance, a merchant
who travels the world might appear in the campaign
only when she wants the PCs to undermine her rivals.
 • Make each adventure count. While developing an
arc, don’t diminish individual adventures by making
what happened in them inconsequential compared
to the larger story. Illustrate the consequences
of such adventures so the players feel a sense of
accomplishment for completing one before they
move onto the next. Each adventure needs some sort
of denouement to show immediate and lingering
effects of the PCs’ victory or defeat.
NPCS AND ORGANIZATIONS
Allied, neutral, and adversarial NPCs and organizations
can all contribute to the theme. You’ll want most to
follow the theme directly, like the examples in Threats
on page 43. However, you can add a few counterpoints
to the theme. For example, a horror game might include
one or two NPCs who are more hopeful, either to grant
respite from the dread or to kill off to show just how
bad things are. Including NPCs who aren’t adversaries
makes the world feel more real. It also increases the
stakes, as PCs have people to care about, protect, and
socialize with. You’ll often find that NPCs you create
will become more or less important than you expected.
You can “demote” an NPC if the players don’t find them
interesting or “promote” them if the PCs like them more
than expected.
MECHANICS
Last of all, you’ll fill out specific encounters, NPCs, treasure
hoards, maps, and so on. For many games, you can save
most of this work for between later sessions, spreading out
your preparations over the course of the game.
You can find more detail on these in the Core Rulebook:
 • Treasure guidelines (page 508)
 • Accomplishment XP (page 507)
 • Environments (page 512)
 • Building Encounters (page 488)
 • Hazards (page 522)
You can also find more information on these in this book:
 • Building your own creatures (page 56)
 • Building your own hazards (page 74)
 • Building encounters (page 46)
1
Gamemastery Basics
45
45
introduction
Gamemastery
Basics
Tools
Subsystems
Variant Rules
NPC Gallery
GLOSSARY
and INDEX
