Population size is only part of the equation. Figuring out
the ancestry ratios of that population and brainstorming
how the members of various ancestries interact can often
lead to interesting story ideas, or at least give you some
jumping‑off points when dreaming up how the nation
was founded and its later history.
CuLturaL haLLmarkS
What elements of the nation’s predominant culture stand
out? A nation might have an unusual stance on religion,
a specific demographic, distinctive natural features,
noteworthy political views, or any number of unique
elements that differentiate it from other nations in your
region. These hallmarks can inform your decisions about
many other aspects of the nation.
hiStory
How did the nation come to be? Has it stood since time
immemorial, a bastion of stability while the rest of the
world changes around it? Perhaps it was built over the
ruins of another civilization, destroyed by some forgotten
calamity. Or perhaps it is a young nation, born recently
amid ongoing strife in your world. What remnants of
the past can be found, or has the past been deliberately
hidden? How have the residents of the nation adapted to
change, and in what ways have they failed to do so?
eConomy and poLitiCaL StanCeS
Determine the key resources and industries that drive the
nation’s economy. The availability of natural resources can
establish national boundaries, local industry, and other
elements of the resident society. For example, an area with
few resources might have a nomadic society, while a nation
rich in resources might develop an opulent mercantile class.
These resources can also affect international relationships.
An area poor in a specific resource might have a strong trade
relationship with a nearby nation that has it, or they might
be at war! Nations also disagree about political structures,
public policy, religion, and any number of other factors.
You’ll also want to consider the significant NPCs of
each nation. This includes the official ruler, but it also
includes other major players, whether they act in an
official capacity or entirely behind the scenes.
BUILDING SETTLEMENTS
In Pathfinder, settlements are where characters can
rest, recharge, retrain, and dedicate themselves to other
downtime activities all in relative peace. Traditionally,
an adventuring band comes together in some kind of
settlement, be it a small hamlet nestled on the border of
some wild frontier or a bustling port city at the heart of a
nation. Some adventures take place entirely within a single
settlement, while in others the party visits settlements only
briefly between their adventures in the wilderness.
The first thing you should consider when building
a settlement is its role in your story. Is this a major
metropolis the heroes will visit again and again during
their adventurers? A backwater village where their
adventures begin? The distant capital from which an evil
tyrant issues cruel edicts? The settlement’s campaign role
will inform many of the other decisions you make about
the place.
Once you know why you need the settlement, consider
why it would exist in the world. Settlements are typically
founded near sources of fresh drinking water; most
commonly along a riverbank or a place with access to
adequate wells or springs. They additionally require some
kind of transit to other places, either roads or waterways.
While it may be easier to create a village or city merely to
serve the characters’ needs, determining what function it
has independent of the characters adds verisimilitude and
can provide hooks for further stories.
Settlements, on page 132, describes the components
of a settlement stat block, which you should create for
any settlement you expect your characters to visit. The
process of creating that stat block will help you further
flesh out your community.
mapping a SettLement
Don’t underestimate the usefulness of sketching a map of
significant settlements, like the one where your adventure
starts. This isn’t intended to be a picture‑perfect rendition
drawn to scale, but rather to outline the rough shape
and size of the settlement. Be sure to highlight a few key
structures useful to the campaign. For more inspiration,
see the section on Drawing Maps (page 52).
Step 1. City Layout: The layout of a settlement is as
unique as the terrain upon which it is settled. First, decide
the major trade route for the settlement. This is typically
a river, which brings fresh water, fish, and fast transport
to the populace. Larger cities can sustain additional
growth with access to a deep‑water harbor or a major
overland trade road. Even settlements conceived with a
grid plan tend to stretch along established trade routes
before expanding outwards.
Step 2. Districts: Towns with a population over a
thousand typically have defensive walls. As a settlement
grows further in size and population, additional stone
fortifications are often constructed beyond the city center,
which further segment the city into districts or boroughs.
CONSCIENTIOUS CULTURE DESIGN
Creating fantasy cultures is a delicate topic, as it can be all
too easy to create a culture or a group based on damaging
stereotypes or simplistic reductions of real-world groups.
Creating entire cultures out of harmful genre tropes such
as “jungle savage” or “noble samurai” reduces real-world
cultures to caricatures and perpetuates stereotypes about
people from those cultures. Taking inspiration from the real
world is wonderful—our world is filled with an incredible
diversity of cultures and peoples—but you should do so with
care and respect for those sources.
Gamemastery Guide
126
126
