relic conjures a magical shard of silver, cold iron, gold,
or a non-precious stone or metal material of your choice
(such as bronze or granite). If your relic is a weapon,
it immediately absorbs the shard, causing it to gain a
magical sheen of that metal or stone until your next daily
preparations. If your relic is not a weapon, the shard is not
immediately used, and you can touch it to a stone or metal
weapon using an Interact action to give it a magical sheen
of that metal or stone for 10 minutes. While
coated in the magical sheen, the weapon
interacts with weaknesses, resistances, and
the like as if it were made of the stone or metal
from the shard rather than its own. The sheen and the
shard are obviously magical in nature, and if you don’t
use the shard, it disappears when you make your next
daily preparations. At 17th level, add adamantine and
mithral to the available options.
LIVING STATUE
GRAND GIFT
EARTH
TRANSMUTATION
Aspect earth
Your relic’s energies have given you
control over the boundary between flesh
and stone. You can cast 6th-level flesh to stone and stone to
flesh as innate spells, each once per day. As long as you are
standing on the earth, your body reflexively petrifies at the
moment you are struck, granting you resistance 5 to physical
damage (except adamantine). This increases to 8 in caves or
subterranean environments.
FIEND GIFTS
CURSE WOUND
MINOR GIFT
CURSE
EVIL
NECROMANCY
Aspect fiend; Prerequisites The relic is a weapon.
Activate [reaction] command; Trigger Your Strike
with your relic deals damage to a creature
within 60 feet; Effect The evil within your
relic curses an enemy’s wound to ensure
they won’t heal. The triggering creature must
attempt a Will save or be unable to restore the
Hit Points lost by damage from the triggering Strike
until its next daily preparations. If you use Curse Wound
on a creature already affected by your Curse Wound, your
previous application expires.
FIENDISH DEFIANCE
MINOR GIFT
ABJURATION
Aspect fiend; Prerequisites The relic is a worn item.
The fiendish power of your relic offers you more protection
against celestials and allows you to ignore harm. While
wearing the relic, you gain a +1 status bonus to AC against
attacks by celestials and resistance to an energy type
corresponding to the relic’s fiendish origin (such as fire
resistance from a devil). The resistance is equal to half the
relic’s level (minimum 1).
LITTLE HELPER
MINOR GIFT
DIVINATION
EVIL
Aspect fiend
Your relic awakens to sapience, developing a personality
(usually one that clashes with your own). Your relic has an
alignment corresponding to the type of fiend associated with
the item, precise vision and imprecise hearing each out to 30
feet, the ability to understand and speak one
language you know, and Intelligence,
Wisdom, and Charisma modifiers of +0.
Your item’s total Perception and Will
modifiers are equal to your proficiency
modifiers in Perception and Will, respectively. It
is trained in the Lore associated with its fiend type
(such as Demon Lore), for a total modifier of 2 + the
relic’s level. Unlike most intelligent items, the relic has no
actions or reactions and can’t use any of its own activations.
FIENDISH BARGAIN
MAJOR GIFT
DIVINATION
EVIL
Aspect fiend
Activate [one-action] command; Frequency once per hour; Effect You
bargain with the evil force empowering your relic for a
boon, though you must trade something in return. Select
one of the following benefits to gain.
• Your relic attempts to counteract a harmful condition
affecting you.
• You regain 3d8+16 Hit Points. This is a healing effect.
• You gain a +2 status bonus to attack rolls for 1 minute.
One of the following randomly determined effects occurs
to you in payment, after applying the benefit.
• You are stupefied 1 for 1 minute.
• You are clumsy 1 for 1 minute.
• You lose 1d8 Hit Points.
• You take a –1 penalty to damage rolls for 1
minute.
PROFANE FERVOR
MAJOR GIFT
EVIL
EVOCATION
Aspect fiend
Activate
[two-actions]
command,
Interact;
Frequency once per day; Effect Profane
energies twist your weapons, filling
them with rage toward everything good.
For 1 minute, your weapons and unarmed attacks gain the
unholy weapon rune while you hold them. If a weapon is
at its limit on property runes, you can choose one property
rune on the weapon to go dormant while the unholy rune
takes effect. In addition, successful Strikes your allies
make while they’re within 30 feet of you deal 1 additional
evil damage.
COMMAND LEGION
GRAND GIFT
CONJURATION
Aspect fiend
Activate [three-actions] command, envision; Frequency once per day;
Gamemastery Guide
100
100
