DESIGNING INTELLIGENT
ITEMS
When you first set out to create an intelligent item, ask
yourself what role you expect the item will play in your
game. Unlike any other item, the intelligent item is a
character of its own and adds to the group dynamic,
usually in ways similar to a minor NPC who follows the
party throughout the adventure. That means it’s important
to have a clear role in mind. Is the item an ally in the PCs’
dangerous quest? A kindred spirit and confidante? A foil
for the PC? A morally ambiguous ally worth handling for
its great power? Or perhaps a bit of comic relief? Once
you know what you want in the item, you can develop
its personality and abilities in parallel, coming up with
thematic links between them.
When choosing values for the intelligent item’s
statistics, you’ll often want to use values suitable for a
creature of its level. You could use much lower values
if you want to give it a weakness, but keep in mind that
a low Will modifier might make it particularly easy to
control, which could be a problem if it can make life
miserable for its partner. Because the item can usually
activate its abilities on its own, the intelligent item is
essentially adding a limited additional character to the
PCs’ team, so consider its effect on the encounters the
PCs face. For example, a high-level normal item that
lets a PC cast a 3rd-level fireball every round might be
reasonable given that it counts toward the PC’s available
actions, but an intelligent item is adding that fireball on
top of everything else the PCs can do.
SPECIFIC INTELLIGENT
ITEMS
The following, as well as the intelligent artifact Serithtial
on page 112, are a few example intelligent items to get
you started.
GENIUS DIADEM
ITEM 18
RARE
N
APEX
ARCANE
DIVINATION
INTELLIGENT
Usage worn circlet; Bulk L
Perception +22; precise vision 30 feet, imprecise hearing 30
feet, constant detect magic
Communication speech (Common, Draconic, and eight other
common languages)
Skills Arcana +34, seven Lore skills +28, Occultism +28,
Society +28
Int +8, Wis +0, Cha +4
Will +24
The genius diadem is a diadem of intellect that typically acts
like an arrogant professor or mentor, often boasting that it
is a certified greater intellect and far superior to your own
intelligence, even after the benefits the diadem grants you. The
genius diadem encourages you to learn things for yourself
rather than actually attempting to Recall Knowledge for
you, though you or your allies might be able to play on its
arrogance using Deception to trick it into doing so. In addition
to allowing you to activate it, the diadem can use the diadem
of intellect’s hypercognition activation with its own actions,
though if it does so, the diadem gains the benefits instead of
you. Only the diadem can use the following activation.
Activate [two-actions] (command, Interact) Frequency once per hour;
Effect The genius diadem casts 7th-level feeblemind.
MARTYR’S SHIELD
ITEM 7
RARE
LG
ABJURATION
DIVINE
INTELLIGENT
Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk 1
Perception +12; precise vision 30 feet, imprecise hearing 30 feet
Communication speech (Common and Celestial)
Skills Diplomacy +15, Religion +13
Int +0, Wis +2, Cha +4
Will +15
A martyr’s shield is a lesser sturdy shield imbued with the
compassion of a devout champion of a righteous deity, like
Iomedae or Vildeis, who sacrificed themself to save an ally. In
addition to good-naturedly attempting to convert you to its
religion, the martyr’s shield can use 1 reaction each round that,
when raised, it uses to Shield Block to protect an ally adjacent to
you, with the effects of the Shield Warden feat (Core Rulebook
112). The martyr’s shield uses this reaction whether you would
prefer it did so or not. The martyr’s shield can be upgraded to a
stronger form of sturdy shield by paying the difference in cost
between its current type of sturdy shield and the new type.
SINGING SWORD
ITEM 5
RARE
CG
ENCHANTMENT INTELLIGENT
OCCULT
Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk 1
Perception +11; precise vision 30 feet, imprecise hearing 30 feet
Communication speech (Common and four other common
languages)
Skills Performance +15
Int +2, Wis +2, Cha +4
Will +13 (+17 against attempts to quiet its singing)
A singing sword is a +1 striking longsword imbued with the
consciousness of a boisterous bard, and therefore constantly
sings at all times. A singing sword can’t stop singing and
in fact communicates in no way other than by singing. A
successful Diplomacy or Intimidation check against its Will
DC can convince it to quiet its singing to a whisper for 10
minutes, or 20 minutes on a critical success, though it quickly
grows displeased at anyone who attempts this repeatedly.
The singing sword can spend its actions to attack on its own,
with the effects of a dancing weapon’s activation, except
that its attack modifier is +12. Additionally, it can perform
the following activations; each casts a composition spell and
follows all the usual rules for compositions.
Activate [one-action] (command) Frequency once per minute; Effect The
singing sword casts inspire courage.
Activate [one-action] (command) Frequency once per minute; Effect The
singing sword casts inspire defense.
Activate [reaction] (command) Frequency once per hour; Trigger You or
an ally within 60 feet rolls a saving throw against an auditory
effect; Effect The singing sword casts counter performance.
2
Tools
89
89
introduction
Gamemastery
Basics
Tools
Subsystems
Variant Rules
NPC Gallery
GLOSSARY
and INDEX
