of sourcebooks or rules resources, you can ask different
players to examine separate sources. This can greatly
increase the speed and accuracy of a group’s rulings.
Approaching the rules as a group problem also means
that you should never trivialize player concerns about a
rule. You must also think about each player and assess how
important the rules actually are to each player. Remember,
though—while rules recall is a group challenge, making
the final decision on the rules interpretation and getting
the session moving again falls to you.
MAKE THE CALL
Though all the above are great practices for making
good rulings, often the best ruling is the one that keeps
the game moving. Avoid getting so bogged down that
it takes you several minutes to decide what ruling
you’ll proceed with. Take what’s close enough and keep
playing. If necessary, you can tell your group “This is how
we’re playing it now, but we can have more discussion
between sessions.” This gets you back in the action, puts
a clear stamp on the fact that this is your decision in the
moment, and empowers your players with permission
to express their opinions on the ruling at a later time.
When in doubt, rule in favor of the player’s request, and
then review the situation later.
The best time to really go in-depth, possibly putting the
group on a short break, is when a situation is life-or-death
or has major consequences in a character’s story.
TAKE TIME FOR REVIEW
When you make a decision you’re not sure about, look
back over it at the end of a session or between sessions.
You might change your mind—there’s nothing wrong
with that! If you change or clarify your original ruling,
inform your players before the next session. No one likes
being surprised by a rule change. Even better, include
them in a rules conversation just like you might during
a session. The guidance on discussing rules with your
players still applies between sessions. Unlike at-the-table
rules discussions, there’s also much more time in these
situations to read existing official rulings or sources.
SAYING “YES, BUT”
Some of the most memorable moments come from
situations that inherently call for a rules interpretation,
like when a player wants to do something creative using
the environment. The variety of these situations is limited
only by the imagination of your players. It’s usually better
to say “yes” than “no,” within reason. For example,
imagine a player wants to do something borderline
nonsensical like grabbing a spider and squeezing it to
force it to use its web attack. But what about a player
who wants to use a fire spell to deliberately ignite a barrel
of oil? Surely that should have some effect!
This is where you can use a variant of the well-known
improv “Yes, and,” technique: you can say “Yes, but.”
With “Yes, but,” you allow the player’s creative idea,
but tie it into the world and the game rules via some
sort of additional consequences, potentially adding the
uncertainty of an additional roll.
Here are some simple ways you might implement this
tool. Almost all of these require an action or are part of
another action.
• Get a fleeting benefit without a roll. Example: dip a
sword into a burning brazier to add 1 fire damage on
the next attack against a troll.
• Require a check, then apply a circumstance bonus to
the PC’s action. Example: swing from a chandelier
above a foe.
• Require a check, then apply a circumstance penalty
or condition to a foe. Example: throw a barrel over
a monster’s head.
• Require an attack roll or skill check to deal minor
damage and gain another benefit. Examples: jump
from a higher elevation down onto a foe for a small
amount of damage, potentially knocking the foe
prone; throw sand in an opponent’s eyes.
• Require a directed attack against an object, then
allow foes to attempt saving throws against the
object’s effect at a DC you choose. Example: cast a
produce flame spell at a barrel of explosives.
Another powerful tool you can use to help you say “Yes,
but” when you’re unsure of the game impact is to allow the
idea to work just this once, letting your players know that
this is part of your decision. For instance, maybe you think
a PCs attempt to Grapple a spider to aim its web attack at
another foe is so fun you have to let them do it, but you’re
worried that the effect would be so powerful that the PCs
would just carry around a spider to shoot webs for the rest
of the campaign. By making it a one-time effect, you can
have fun but don’t have to worry about whether you’re
setting a disruptive precedent for later on.
HOUSE RULES
You and your players will inevitably come across a rule
you disagree with, or that runs counter to the theme of
your game. You might even decide to add a specific rule
to an area not covered by the written rules. Collectively,
these rulings, changes, and additions are known as house
rules. It’s a good idea to record them in a place where the
group can easily access and refer to them, and where a
potential new player could find them. Such record-keeping
is a great thing to delegate to a player!
The best rule of thumb in these situations is to be
slow to change the written rules and quick to revert a
problematic ruling or house rule. The simple reason
for this is that sticking to the written rules is the easiest
way to remain fair and consistent. However, the more
you learn your group’s play style, the more often you’ll
find times where you and your group feel it’s correct to
institute a house rule of some sort. You might take a look
at Chapter 4: Variant Rules to get started!
1
Gamemastery Basics
29
29
introduction
Gamemastery
Basics
Tools
Subsystems
Variant Rules
NPC Gallery
GLOSSARY
and INDEX
