scale, not necessarily spatial in the same way as a plane,
and overlaying every other plane at once—including one
another—dimensions and planes are most significantly
differentiated in how each of them breaks the commonly
held rules of the other. Although some scholars include
other extraplanar realms within the ranks of dimensions,
only two such realms are uniformly agreed upon and
classified as such. The Dreamlands, also known as the
Dimension of Dreams, is readily accessed by mortal
dreamers, while the Dimension of Time is notorious
for the near impossibility of accessing it as well as the
bizarre, often deadly restrictions upon travel to and
within its bounds.
DIMENSION OF TIME
DIMENSION
N
ERRATIC
STATIC
Category dimension
Divinities Tawil at’Umr, Yog-Sothoth
Native Inhabitants hounds of Tindalos, petitioners (the unbound)
Among the most obscure planes of existence, the Dimension
of Time is virtually impossible to access by conventional
methods of planar travel. Instead, travelers much perform
complex and difficult rituals described within the pages of
such monstrously rare tomes as the Necronomicon and the
Book of Serpents, Ash, and Acorns: Shadows of What Was and
Will Be. Compounding the plane’s obscurity, each traveler’s
experience seems to be unique, and most who attempt the
journey never return. Every manner of magic that interacts
with the plane invariably draws the attention of creatures such
as the hounds of Tindalos. The proper flow and continuity of
time seems to self-correct for any attempted meddling, often
with violence.
Those few who have gained entry and returned describe the
plane as a swirling storm of blurred images, the composite of
millions of interwoven timelines around their own, with a single
doorway allowing access to one’s own past. Travelers appear as
transparent images of themselves, but the plane seems averse
to any attempt to alter the past, no matter the means or the
intention. Such attempts often end in the offending individual
erased from existence or trapped within closed time loops to
limit the damage they inflict upon the overall flow of time.
Supposedly, like an eye in a storm, at the dimension’s heart is
the legendary realm of Stethelos and its terrible occupant Tawil
at’Umr. Tales of this realm speak only of a great city, a vast green
meadow, and the rushing sound of an ocean emptying over an
immense and terrible waterfall.
DREAMLANDS
DIMENSION
N
FLOWING
Category dimension
Divinities Elder Mythos pantheon
Native Inhabitants animate dreams, Denizens of Leng, Leng
spiders, petitioners (dreamers)
Created and sustained by the collective dreams of sleeping
mortals, the Dreamlands (also called the Dimension of Dreams)
overlays the Ethereal Plane. When a creature dreams, regardless
of the location of their physical body, they interact directly
with the Dreamlands. Sleeping creatures cast themselves
into the plane in idealized avatars known as lucid bodies, and
their dreamscapes are immune to outside entry by standard
magic such as plane shift, requiring obscure, more specialized
spells to access. The dreamers of each mortal world generate
a cluster of dreamscapes, like drifting bubbles atop a deeper
ocean of permanent dreams formed from the collective mass of
slumbering desires, dreams of especially powerful dreamers, and
the dreams of ancient, obscure entities—including the gods of
the Elder Mythos. While most dreamscapes are safe, travelers
in the deep, permanent Dreamlands face living, animate dreams
and the predation of night hags from the Ethereal Plane, as well
as stranger beings spawned within the core itself.
Some scholars postulate a distinct region within the dimension
for nightmares, much as the more stable inner portions of the
dimension exist separately from the transient, ever-forming and
evaporating mortal dreamscapes at its edges. Others conflate
this nightmare region with the demiplane of Leng, while still
others dismiss this notion but speculate that Leng is somehow
accessible to dreamers who intentionally seek it out.
DEMIPLANES
Demiplanes are much smaller and more limited than
planes or dimensions, and they come into being more
easily. They may arise naturally where the raw chaos
of the Maelstrom churns at the border of the Astral,
crystallize around shed memories of dead mortals on
their way to judgment, or coalesce within the mists of
the Ethereal set into motion by the forces of the Positive
and Negative Energy Planes. They can also be crafted by
will and powerful magic to suit their designers’ whims.
Almost innumerable, each is distinctly finite, with their
own nature and rules set at their creation.
Desna’s demiplanar realm of Cynosure exists as
Golarion’s literal north star, silently visible in the night skies,
hosting her servitors and petitioners in her divine realm at
its heart. Other demiplanes are crafted by mortals, such as
the Refuge of Nex, created by the titular archmage seeking
respite and solitude, and the Hao‑Jin Tapestry, a demiplane
stocked with its creator’s collection and accessed through a
literal tapestry artifact she fashioned as its entrance.
Created not by gods or mortals, the Akashic Record is
a demiplane thought to exist deep within the Astral as a
repository of the collective knowledge and memories of the
cosmos, secure and unchanging, but so difficult to access
that most doubt its very existence. Other demiplanes serve
darker purposes and are perhaps best left forgotten, though
their mysteries often tempt the ignorant, the foolish, and
the desperate. The Prison of the Laughing Fiend serves
to bottle its enigmatic and godlike occupant, Tegresin
the Laughing Fiend, bound by nameless divinities whose
nature and reason changes with each telling of the story,
while the Dead Vault was crafted at Golarion’s core by
the gods themselves to forever bottle Rovagug the Rough
Beast, lest he escape and devour all existence.
2
Tools
145
145
introduction
Gamemastery
Basics
Tools
Subsystems
Variant Rules
NPC Gallery
GLOSSARY
and INDEX
