RESEARCH
When the PCs are trying to discover important information while challenged by a time
limit or other interesting twist, the research subsystem is just the right thing to lend their
efforts more urgency and weight.
In the research subsystem, PCs accumulate Research
Points and learn new information or gain other benefits
upon reaching specific thresholds. Use this subsystem if the
PCs face a time constraint, rival research group, or other
form of external pressure or condition that could end the
PCs’ efforts early. Otherwise, you can simply use the rules
in the Core Rulebook, since the PCs are free to keep rolling
until they uncover everything there is to find.
In this subsystem, time passes in rounds spanning several
hours to a day of research. Each round, the characters use
the Research exploration activity to gain Research
Points (RP). As time passes and the party earns
more RP, they gain knowledge and rewards, but
also might face consequences or events. Some
of these events might interrupt the round with
a different kind of encounter (disrupting
the Research activity), such as a social
encounter with an intelligent book or
a combat encounter with a guardian.
RESEARCH
CONCENTRATION
EXPLORATION
LINGUISTIC
You comb through information to learn
more about the topic at hand. Choose
your research topic, section of the
library, or other division depending on
the form of research, and attempt a skill
check. The skills to use and the DC for the
check depend on the choice you made.
Critical Success You gain 2 RP.
Success You gain 1 RP.
Critical Failure You make a false
discovery and lose 1 RP.
BUILDING A
LIBRARY
“Library” is the general term the
research subsystem uses to designate
the setting of the PCs’ research. Despite
the name, the library doesn’t necessarily
consist of a quiet hall full of books. It
could be an Astral memory palace, a
collection of iconographic artwork, or
even a group the party is questioning. In
most cases, to engage the whole party
and add a little decision-making to the
research, you’ll want to give your
research topic or library at least
one variable or subdivision that the
PCs need to decide how to handle. For instance, you might
give the PCs three different research topics to study, each
using different skills and providing different rewards. The
library might have several rooms or sections with different
challenges to research, allowing you to reward PCs with
skills that aren’t typically associated with research; perhaps
the books on aeromancy are all flying above the top shelves
of towering bookcases, requiring a round of Athletics checks
to represent climbing up and down ladders to retrieve them
and reach the first threshold. A variety of skills and
decisions, along with vivid descriptions, are the key
to an engaging and memorable research session,
rather than just a string of die rolls by the wizard.
CHOOSING THRESHOLDS
Once you’ve decided what your library
looks like and how the library and
research options are structured, it’s
time to set the research thresholds for
each topic. Thresholds are your
opportunity to reveal intriguing
new information and introduce
different types of challenges. Each
threshold should provide interesting
information; if it doesn’t, you should
probably have fewer thresholds.
Thresholds can change the state
of the library (perhaps the first
threshold is simply cleaning and
organizing the library so the PCs
can find the tomes they need),
reveal information, give the
PCs a reward (like access to an
ancient uncommon or rare feat or
spell they discover in library’s depths),
trigger an encounter, alter the skills or
DCs for further research, or anything
else you can imagine, but they should
always do something.
If your library covers multiple
topics, each has its own set of
thresholds. You’ll typically want
to require fewer Research Points
to reach each one and use fewer
thresholds per topic.
Think
about
the
constraints
preventing
the PCs from researching
as long as they want, and use
Gamemastery Guide
154
154
