enslavement of the dragon within the orb, even if you later
lose the orb.
Spell Granted (DC 40) black dragon (darkness), blue dragon
(hallucinatory terrain), brass dragon
(speak
with
animals),
bronze
dragon (control water), copper
dragon (hideous laughter), green
dragon (entangle), red dragon (wall
of fire), silver dragon (detect
alignment [evil only]), white
dragon (wall of ice)
Activate [three-actions] command; Frequency
once per round; Effect You cast a
10th‑level dominate spell (DC 40)
on a dragon of the type associated
with the orb within 500 feet, except
the effect lasts for 1 month rather
than unlimited. The dragon does not
receive its status bonus to saving
throws against magic. The dragon is
then temporarily immune to further
domination via the orb for 24 hours.
Activate
[two-actions]
envision,
Interact;
Frequency three times per day; Effect
You breathe an elemental blast that deals 25d6 damage (DC
40 basic Reflex save) in either a 60‑foot cone or a 100‑foot
line (your choice). The breath’s damage type matches the
Breath Weapon of the dragon type associated with the orb
of dragonkind (acid for the black orb, electricity for the blue
orb, and so on).
Destruction An orb of dragonkind violently shatters and
explodes when exposed to the Breath Weapon of a dragon
who is a descendant of the dragon trapped within. The
explosion deals damage as the 2‑action activation above to all
creatures within 90 feet.
PHILOSOPHER’S EXTRACTOR
ITEM 28
RARE
ARTIFACT
EVOCATION
MAGICAL
TRANSMUTATION
Bulk 8
This bizarre machine is a complex arrangement of flasks, tubes,
and other alchemical equipment. The philosopher’s extractor
is designed to create the ultimate alchemical concoctions.
The extractor functions as an exceptional set of alchemist’s
tools, granting a +4 item bonus to Crafting checks related to
alchemy. When using the extractor to Craft an alchemical item
or with infused reagents as part of your daily preparations,
you can create impeccable alchemical items. An impeccable
alchemical item always uses the maximum numerical value
possible for any rolls it requires, such as dealing maximum
damage with alchemist’s fire or restoring the maximum
number of Hit Points with an elixir of life. If the impeccable
item has a duration, it lasts twice as long as normal. Finally, an
impeccable alchemical item never has a drawback.
Activate [three-actions] Interact; Frequency once per minute; Effect
You use the extractor to produce an alchemical item of
your level or lower whose formula you know. The extractor
can create 56 levels’ worth of items per day in this way.
For example, the extractor could create two true elixirs of
life (19th level) and two moderate elixirs of life (9th level),
or eight comprehension elixirs (7th level), and
so on.
Activate 1 hour (Interact); Effect You
take a sizable portion of a creature (at
least two‑thirds of its original mass)
and filter it through the mechanisms
of the extractor. After the end of the
process, the philosopher’s extractor
creates a transmogrifying mutagen that
imparts the essence of the creature to the
drinker. The extractor can make several
transmogrifying mutagens simultaneously
using the same activation if enough mass is
provided at once, up to a maximum of 10
concurrent mutagens. Drinking a
transmogrifying mutagen imparts
you with one of the creature’s
unique abilities for 1 hour. This
could grant one of several abilities
such as a dragon’s Breath Weapon,
darkvision, flight, frightful presence,
or immunity to sleep. The ability functions as it did for
the original creature, except it uses your class DC or your
spell DC (whichever is higher) instead of the creature’s DC.
The mutagen grants only abilities based on a creature’s
physiology and never grants magic‑related abilities such
as innate spells or spellcasting ability. The GM ultimately
decides what ability a transmogrifying mutagen grants.
Unlike normal for mutagens and polymorph effects,
you can drink multiple transmogrifying mutagens and
gain benefits from each. When you drink transmogrifying
mutagens made from different creatures, you receive
abilities from each creature. When you drink multiple
transmogrifying mutagens made from the same type of
creature, such as multiple mutagens made from trolls,
you gain an additional ability for each transmogrifying
mutagen you drink, and the duration of the abilities from
that creature type increases by 1 hour for each additional
concoction you drink.
However, these additional benefits come with a risk; if
you drink a transmogrifying mutagen while at least one
other is active, after drinking it, you must succeed at a
flat check with a DC equal to the total number of active
transmogrifying mutagens you’ve consumed. On a failure,
you fully transform into a member of the species of the
latest transmogrifying mutagen you drank, and you almost
always go berserk from your change. The transformation
may leave some amount of your personality and memories
intact, at the GM’s discretion.
Destruction Simultaneously feeding the philosopher’s
extractor sizable portions of an aeon, angel, archon, azata,
daemon, demon, devil, protean, and psychopomp, each of at
least 14th level, along with a philosopher’s stone causes the
2
Tools
111
111
introduction
Gamemastery
Basics
Tools
Subsystems
Variant Rules
NPC Gallery
GLOSSARY
and INDEX
