physical fitness. Add the Assurance skill feat for
Athletics to your background options.
3
Desperate Intimidation You had to frighten off
pirates or slavers looking to capture you and this
character. Add the Group Coercion skill feat to your
background options.
4
Homelessness At a time when you were both living
on the streets, you taught this character valuable
pointers to survive. Add the Streetwise skill feat to
your background options.
5
Kindly Witch This character connected you to a
kindly but reclusive person who was living at the
edge of civilization but had expansive knowledge to
share. Add the Natural Medicine skill feat to your
background options.
6
Liberators You and this character worked together
to free some captives—including one of your friends
or relatives—from a gang of slavers. Add the Lengthy
Diversion skill feat to your background options.
7
Magician This character supported your brief
dalliance with stage magic, which you took up as a
precursor to learning actual magic or simply to keep
your fingers nimble. Add the Subtle Theft skill feat to
your background options.
8
Missing Child When a young relative disappeared in
a busy market, this character helped you question
merchants and shoppers and find the child before
they came to any harm. Add the Hobnobber skill feat
to your background options.
9
Patron of the Arts This character encouraged you to
excel at a type of performance you loved, even going
so far as to support you in lean times. Add the Virtuosic
Performer skill feat to your background options.
10
Religious Students You and this character shared some
religious training in the past, even if you didn’t stick
with it, and you admired their piety. Add the Student of
the Canon skill feat to your background options.
11
Timely Cure When a family member of yours was
dying and there didn’t seem to be much hope, this
character brought a simple but effective alchemical
cure. You are determined to pay this favor forward.
Add the Alchemical Crafting skill feat to your
background options.
12
Wasteland Survivors You and this character
were lost in a dangerous wasteland together and
depended upon each other for survival; you’re still
not certain that either of you would have survived
the ordeal without the other’s aid. Add the Forager
skill feat to your background options.
TABLE 4–10: CHALLENGING RELATIONSHIP
1d12 Result
1
Accidental Fall This character once inadvertently
shoved you off a ledge or balcony. You’re mostly
certain it was a mistake, but the fall was terrifying,
and you’ve resolved to never be caught unaware
like that again. Add the Cat Fall skill feat to your
background options.
2
Accusation of Theft You were once secretly certain
that this character stole a cherished valuable from
you. You were determined to steal it back, until
you learned that this character wasn’t in fact to
blame and you’d only misplaced the item. Add the
Pickpocket skill feat to your background options.
3
Called Before Judges Information provided by this
character—either intentionally or inadvertently
given—required you to justify yourself in front of a
group of bureaucrats or magistrates. Add the Group
Impression skill feat to your background options.
4
Matter of Might You have long considered this
character your rival in a question of strength. You are
determined to prove yourself to be mightier, perhaps
by intelligent application of force if you aren’t
physically imposing. Add the Hefty Hauler skill feat
to your background options.
5
Mercantile Expertise To encourage an employer to
hire you instead of this character, you worked hard to
demonstrate your keen mercantile sense. It didn’t work;
the employer hired this character anyway. Add the
Bargain Hunter skill feat to your background options.
6
Privileged Position You once sought the favor of a
powerful spellcaster as a mentor, but this character
was plainly the mentor’s favorite, no matter how
hard you tried. Add the Quick Identification skill feat
to your background options.
7
Relationship Ender You once warned off an admirer
seeking this character’s affections. You still maintain
that the match would have been a poor one and
that you did this character a favor. Add the Quick
Coercion skill feat to your background options.
8
Rival Trackers You and this character worked for a
time as rival hunters, whether tracking animals or
escaped criminals. Add the Experienced Tracker skill
feat to your background options.
9
Seeking Accolades You never seemed to capture the
attention of the crowds at the tavern as easily as this
character did, so you worked hard to practice your
showmanship. Add the Impressive Performance skill
feat to your background options.
10
Slander You and this character were rivals for
the same person’s affections, and you stooped to
spreading vicious lies before the whole situation
fell apart. Add the Charming Liar skill feat to your
background options.
11
Social Maneuvering You have always wanted to prove
yourself better than this character in a fancy social
situation but have yet to decisively do so. Add the
Courtly Graces skill feat to your background options.
12
Spy You spied upon this character in the past, either
at the behest of someone else or because of your
own suspicions. Add the Read Lips skill feat to your
background options.
4
Variant Rules
191
191
introduction
Gamemastery
Basics
Tools
Subsystems
Variant Rules
NPC Gallery
GLOSSARY
and INDEX
