Religious congregations usually wield significant power
in communities where faith is strong. A wizard, sorcerer,
or bard of even moderate magical talent would be a rare
and influential member of society in a small settlement.
An organization can wield overt influence over the
community where they’re based, or subtle control, as
the Pathfinder Society does in Absalom. Other notable
factions may include noble houses, wealthy merchants,
innkeepers, and retired soldiers and adventurers.
Corruption
In any settlement, it’s possible for officials to put their
own interests before those of the people they serve.
Corruption might be as simple as a clerk willing to accept
a bribe to expedite some paperwork, or it might be as
sinister as selling civilians into slavery.
SETTLEMENT STAT BLOCK
A settlement’s stat block consolidates the basic information
about a settlement into a centralized format.
SETTLEMENT NAME
SETTLEMENT (LEVEL)
ALIGNMENT
TYPE
OTHER TRAITS
The first elements of a settlement stat block are its name
and level. A settlement’s level represents its relative size and
economic capacity, as well as roughly corresponding to the
maximum level of NPC that can be found there, not counting
significant NPCs listed below. In general, any common items
with a level no higher than the settlement’s level are available
for purchase (though a character of a higher level can usually
ferret out or custom order higher-level items). In addition, the
settlement’s level is used to help determine the maximum
possible task level that could become available there to Earn
Income (Core Rulebook 504). Both these are simply guidelines,
however, and a GM should make exceptions at their discretion.
Following the settlement’s heading are its traits. The first of
these is the trait representing the settlement’s alignment. This
trait represents the alignment of the settlement’s government
and overall society, and while it may indicate a trend, it doesn’t
dictate the alignment of every individual citizen. After the
alignment trait is the trait for the type of settlement: village,
town, city, or metropolis. This trait generally reflects the size of
the settlement, but it also tends to correlate to a settlement’s
level. A village is usually level 0–1, a town level 2–4, a city level
5–7, and a metropolis 8 or above, though the presence of many
higher-level or wealthy residents could easily skew the level
of a village, town, or city upwards.
A settlement might have other traits in addition to its
alignment and type traits. For example, the dwarven sky
citadel of Kraggodan has the dwarf trait, since it was built and
is predominantly occupied by dwarves. The city of Lepidstadt
in Ustalav has the academic trait, due to its focus around the
prestigious University of Lepidstadt.
Following the settlement’s traits is a simple sentence that
provides a short description of the settlement and its role in
the story or region.
Government This entry describes the settlement’s governing
entity, such as a mayor, the town elder, an elected council,
and so on.
Population The settlement’s total population is listed here,
followed by a breakdown of the population by ancestry
in parentheses.
Languages The languages commonly spoken in the settlement
are listed here, ordered alphabetically.
Religions This entry lists the religions and philosophies
commonly practiced in the settlement. If the settlement
has an official religion, that is indicated in parenthesis. If
the settlement has prohibited any religions or philosophies,
those are listed in a Prohibited entry following the
Religions entry.
Threats This entry lists the major threats facing the settlement,
such as ongoing drought or famine, political uprisings,
criminal activity, and the like.
Other Characteristics A settlement might have distinctive
features that affect its residents or visitors entering the
city, such as a particular trade that makes certain items
more available.
Significant NPCs The final section of the settlement stat block
presents the most significant NPCs of that settlement.
This usually includes the settlement’s official leader, if
it’s a single person. It also includes other movers and
shakers, local celebrities, and persons of particular interest
to adventurers.
SAMPLE SETTLEMENT ABILITIES
Here are some common settlement abilities you can use
to customize a settlement of your own creation.
Artists’ Haven: Residents of this city have a deep
appreciation for fine art. It’s easier to find higher‑level
tasks involving Performance or art, as well as buyers
willing to pay more for art objects.
COMMON NPCS
Several categories of NPCs are quite common in settlements,
if not exclusive to them. The following sections from the
NPC Gallery of this book provide statistics and additional
useful information for running settlements.
• Courtiers (page 206) The upper crust of society is most
common in larger settlements.
• Magistrates (page 224) These public officials create and
implement the law.
• Officers (page 232) Officers are responsible for enforcing
the law in a settlement.
• Performers (page 236) Performers are most common in
settlements, where there are large audiences.
• Publicans (page 238) Nearly every settlement has at least
one gathering place and its regulars.
• Scholars (page 240) Most repositories of lore are located
within settlements.
• Tradespeople (page 244) Tradespeople provide the skilled
labor that keeps a town supplied and running.
Gamemastery Guide
134
134
