8
The Fiend You dealt with, or were possessed by, a
fiend who lent you power at a time of great need.
Some part of it remains inside you, influencing you
toward destructive ends. Add a Strength ability boost
to your background options.
9
The Fool One of your close associates mocked propriety
and custom, engaging in wild and somewhat random
actions from time to time. After a while, you learned
there was simple wisdom to this foolery—a careless
worldview that taught you to cast off concern. Add a
Wisdom ability boost to your background options.
10
The Hunter This person was a lone wolf who cautiously
allowed you to become a member of their solitary pack.
They taught you how to remain quick and thrive on
your own in spite of natural dangers. Add a Dexterity
ability boost to your background options.
11
The Liege Lord You became close with someone you
were bound to serve, be it an employer, minor lord
or lady, or even a king or queen. Though this person
held power over you, they held you closer than a
subject or servant. As a result, you’re used to dealing
with and being close to power. Add a Charisma
ability boost to your background options.
12
The Lover You had a romantic connection in your
past, and this person deeply influenced your
personality. Perhaps this was a first love, a casual
partner you grew close to, or the one who got away.
The experience bolstered your confidence in romantic
interactions, even though your thoughts still stray
toward that special someone from long ago. Add a
Charisma ability boost to your background options.
13
The Mentor You had a mentor who taught you
everything worth knowing about life. This could have
been the person who taught you your heroic abilities,
or simply a kindred spirit who helped form your
worldview. Add a Constitution ability boost to your
background options.
14
The Mercenary With this person, there was always a
cost. No deed came without a trade for something of
equal or greater value. You respected their cynical but
fair dealings, and they influenced your philosophy. Add
a Strength ability boost to your background options.
15
The Mystic You were especially close to a holy
person in your community who fundamentally
changed your life, opening your eyes to the
incredible powers that exist beyond the natural
world. Regardless of whether you now follow a faith,
certain religious artifacts, rituals, and texts played a
large part in making you the person you are. Add a
Wisdom ability boost to your background options.
16
The Pariah You met a disgraced exile and found in
their words something that spoke to you. What once
seemed true in your religion, society, or family began
to appear false, and you quickly learned not to trust
everyone you meet. Add a Wisdom ability boost to
your background options.
17
The Relative You were especially close to a specific
relative growing up. To you, this person was the
meaning of family. They helped shepherd you into
adulthood, teaching you everything you know
about the world. You resolutely strive to keep a
promise, vow, or oath that you made to them. Add a
Constitution ability boost to your background options.
18
The Seer You were close to a person who claimed to
see the future—perhaps an oracle, seer, prophet, or
merely some festival charlatan. The seer’s influence
either made you into an optimist with a drive to fulfill
that future or a fatalist resigned to accept it. Add a
Wisdom ability boost to your background options.
19
The Wanderer You knew someone who traveled from
place to place with the changing of the wind, such as
a minstrel, merchant, outcast, mercenary, or sailor.
This person brought you wondrous mementos and
inspired a wanderlust within you. Add a Dexterity
ability boost to your background options.
20
The Well-Connected Friend In your circle of
associates, there was someone everyone knew. This
person had contacts in every social circle. Through
this connection, you continue to meet and associate
with a wide variety of people in every walk of life. Add
a Charisma ability boost to your background options.
STEP 5: RELATIONSHIPS
This aspect of background generation determines the
relationships you have with the other PCs and why your
character might choose to adventure with them. This step is
best performed when the entire group is sitting together and
can generate and discuss these connections with each other.
You should select another character and roll on the first
table to generate an inspiring connection, then determine a
different character and roll on the second table to generate a
challenging connection. You might choose these characters
randomly, or the group might decide that each character
has an inspiring connection with the character of the player
sitting to the left and a challenging connection with the
character of the player sitting to the right.
Other players can reject a relationship connection they
don’t feel fits with their vision of their own character; in this
case, pick another character or a different relationship. Even
though you and the other characters share a connection,
only you add the skill feats from the relationships you roll
to your background options.
TABLE 4–9: INSPIRING RELATIONSHIP
1d12 Result
1
Animal Helpers When you and this character were
younger, you worked together to nurse sick animals
back to health. Add the Train Animal skill feat to
your background options.
2
Comrade-in-Arms You and this character were
once comrades in military service, and you trained
yourself and this character to improve your
Gamemastery Guide
190
190
