she is not the only divinity there. The demigod psychopomp
ushers dwell within the plane in service to her, and the deity
Achaekek dwells below at the spire’s root. Looming high above
as a skull-faced moon waits Groetus, the god of the end times,
his orbit slowly decaying in minuscule iterations supposedly
counting down to the last days of the cosmos.
Pharasma’s courts and the surrounding Graveyard of Souls are
not the only features atop the spire. Beyond the graveyard, the
Spirelands manifest environments much like those of the varied
Material Plane worlds, filled with the souls of neutral petitioners
who have nowhere else to go as they are unclaimed by any gods
and unaligned with any particular ethos.
ELYSIUM
PLANE
CG
Category Outer Plane
Divinities Calistria, Cayden Cailean, Desna, elven pantheon,
empyreal lords, Gorum, giant pantheon, Kofusachi,
Milani, Nocticula
Native Inhabitants azatas, petitioners (the chosen)
Verdant, wild, and unrestrained by law, where passion and
creation are fostered and rewarded, the plane of Elysium is a
place of wild, idealized natural beauty. The so-called Promised
Land and its inhabitants represent a wide variety of freely given
benevolence, often willing to directly aid visitors but more often
serving as inspirations and muses to foster positive change and
self-realized success. Elysium’s petitioners, known as the chosen,
appear as idealized versions of their mortal selves, each pursuing
their own self-determined actions and finding their own unique
paths to join the ranks of the plane’s celestials.
Azatas—the plane’s primary denizens—organize into fleeting,
competitive courts, each rewarding heroism and creativity above
all else. Elysium hosts a number of resident deities, including
Calistria and the elven pantheon, Cayden Cailean, Desna, Gorum,
and various empyreal lords. Visitors from across the planes are
drawn to Elysium’s Wandering City of Emerald Song, a mobile,
impermanent, and ever-changing city of lillend azatas organized
by their princess, Anduarine the Muse, filled with art, craft,
revelry, song, and trade.
HEAVEN
PLANE
LG
Category Outer Plane
Divinities dwarven pantheon, Easivra, empyreal lords, Erastil,
Iomedae, Shizuru, Torag, Tsukiyo
Native Inhabitants archons, petitioners (the elect)
The great mountain of Heaven is the realm of structured
benevolence made manifest. Organized into seven tiers, the
mountain’s solid appearance is actually malleable, making way
for a vast assemblage of varied environments to accommodate
both its own celestials and the souls who migrate there. Devoted
to defending the innocent and crusading against the wicked,
Heaven’s archons marshal into vast armies, commanded by their
own empyreal lords. Angels collaborate with the archon legions
2
Tools
143
143
introduction
Gamemastery
Basics
Tools
Subsystems
Variant Rules
NPC Gallery
GLOSSARY
and INDEX
