SETTLEMENTS
Adventures have to start somewhere, and everyone needs some semblance of a home.
Settlements are where characters can rest, recharge, retrain, and dedicate themselves to
other downtime activities, all in relative peace. But settlements can also hold their own
intrigues and dangers, providing adventure opportunities of their own.
For some players, a settlement may be nothing more
than a convenient place to purchase gear and sell loot.
For others, a settlement might be a beloved home they’re
willing to risk everything to protect. And sometimes, an
entire campaign takes place entirely within the walls of
a single city.
SETTLEMENTS IN A GAME
Given the variety of roles a settlement can play in
an adventure, a Game Master should have a firm
understanding of how they work in the game and how
to best use them. Virtually every settlement uses the
rules for urban environments presented starting on page
514 of the Pathfinder Core Rulebook. Those rules are
primarily intended for encounter mode, however, and so
the following guidance can help you best use a settlement
in the broader narrative of your game.
SETTLEMENT ADVENTURES
Designing adventures in a settlement generally follows
the guidelines presented in Adventure Design on page 40.
However, a settlement’s greater population density also
allows for a number of adventure styles and elements that
aren’t as common beyond the city walls.
Social encounters are one of the most common
interactions within a settlement, starting with the guards
at the city gates all the way to an audience with the
queen. The influence and reputation subsystems (pages
151 and 164, respectively) can facilitate these interactions
in a more structured way. Chase scenes, using the rules
starting on page 156, are an iconic component of a
settlement adventure, especially in a larger city, where
dense buildings and a variety of structures make for an
exciting series of obstacles. A settlement is also an ideal
place for a party to conduct an infiltration (page 160).
Since most libraries, archives, and similar repositories of
information are located within settlements, you might
make use of the research rules (page 154). Ambitious
characters might want to build up their own organizations
using the leadership subsystem (page 168).
modeS of pLay
Just like in other adventure locations, all three modes
of play can happen in settlements. Since a settlement
presents far more opportunities for noncombat activities
than most other environments, characters likely spend
most of their time in exploration mode. Downtime almost
exclusively takes place within a settlement.
MARKETPLACES
Where there are people, there is commerce. The Buying
and Selling section on page 24 provides several sets of
guidelines for handling commerce in your game, but it can
also be helpful to have a sense of what items and economic
power a given settlement has on its own merits.
In a given settlement, a character can usually purchase
any common item (including formulas, alchemical items,
and magic items) that is of the same or lower level than
the settlement’s. Usually, fewer of the highest‑level items
are available—you can use Table 10–9: Party Treasure by
Level on page 509 of the Core Rulebook as a guideline for
how many of the highest‑level items might be available,
using the Permanent Items and Consumables entries for a
level 1 lower than the settlement’s actual level. Inhabitants
of a settlement can usually purchase items from PCs as
long as those items are the same or lower level than the
settlement, with limitations on higher‑level items similar
to those available for sale. If a settlement’s population is
significantly smaller than its level would suggest, its ability
to provide and purchase items may be more limited.
If a character’s level is higher than the settlement’s, that
character can usually use their own influence and leverage
to acquire higher‑level items, as they convince shops to place
specialty orders or artisans to craft custom goods, though it
might take a bit of time for such orders to be fulfilled.
Spellcasting services are available in many settlements.
Barring a powerful spellcasting NPC in the city with
whom the party could negotiate for services, a character
can find someone to cast common spells up to a level that
could be cast by an NPC of the settlement’s level. For
example, a character in a 9th‑level city can typically find
and pay someone to cast a 5th‑level common spell—the
highest spell available to a 9th‑level spellcaster.
Some settlements have access to uncommon items,
formulas, and spells. If a settlement could reasonably be
considered to meet the Access entry for an item or spell,
that item or spell is available just like any common item.
For example, the dwarven settlement of Kraggodan has
plenty of dwarf weapons available.
POWER STRUCTURES
Outside of city limits, adventurers spend much of their time
operating on their own terms, accountable only to their own
moral code. But in a settlement, the heroes become part of
a larger system with its own codified laws, procedures, and
enforcement. The details of a settlement’s power structures
shape the party’s interactions within that settlement.
Gamemastery Guide
132
132
