and NPC interactions to give them the resources they
need. For a character whose purpose is to help people in
danger, build some encounters that include people who
need to be rescued.
Look for good times to recap the state of a character’s
goals and remind the player how their character has
progressed, particularly when something changes in relation
to their goals. The Long-Term Goals section on page 22 gives
you more details on how you can use goals in downtime.
CHANGING THE WORLD
As the group moves through the campaign, the events
of their adventures and downtime should change the
world around them. Show this through the responses the
characters get from other people, the scenery they see
around them, and their environment. You might be able
to anticipate some changes, but most will come up in play
and require you to make adjustments later on.
POWER LEVEL
As the game progresses, the power level of the PCs
and their foes increases. Going up in level brings new,
stronger abilities into the game, and likewise adventures
bring in new monsters with commensurate capabilities.
Higher-level adventures should present new challenges
appropriate to the PCs’ abilities, such as areas that can
be accessed with flight at 7th level or higher. Beyond just
the rules, PCs should compel different reactions from the
people they meet, as their reputation spreads and they
exhibit abilities beyond what most people have ever seen.
RECURRING VILLAINS
Consider including villains who can appear multiple
times over the course of several adventures. They
don’t necessarily need to be masterminds. Imagine an
unscrupulous mercenary who works for major villain
after major villain. When you create a recurring villain,
it’s best not to make them too integral to the story, since
the PCs might take them down earlier than you expect!
Have some contingency plans in place.
The advice about Portraying NPCs on page 9 applies
especially to these recurring villains. As they reappear
throughout the campaign, they should change in some
of the same ways PCs do. Think about how previous
run-ins with the PCs have shaped the recurring villain’s
emotions and plans. Which PC do they have the biggest
grudge against and why? Do they bear scars from
previous battles? Have they developed a countermeasure
against a PC’s spells or tactics?
VILLAIN GOALS
Just as PCs have goals, so do your villains. A recurring
villain might have a vision for what the world should be and
a step-by-step plan to get there. A plan gives you a clear way
1
Gamemastery Basics
37
37
introduction
Gamemastery
Basics
Tools
Subsystems
Variant Rules
NPC Gallery
GLOSSARY
and INDEX
