No Magic: Magic of any kind does not exist in this
world. Spells and magic effects do not function. Consider
the variants on page 196 to handle the lack of magic items.
Low Magic: Magic is mysterious and taboo. The few
practitioners of the mystical arts are feared or shunned.
Again, consider the variants on page 196 to handle the
relative scarcity of magic items.
Common: Magic is an accepted fact of everyday life,
though its mysteries are beyond the reach of most people.
Magic portals and gates can whisk travelers “in the
know” halfway across the world or to the other side of
the multiverse.
High Magic: Magic and magical items are commonplace
in society. It may be as easy to learn spellcasting as it is to
learn a new language. Magical objects simulate various
modern technologies.
DESIGNING NATIONS
For any nation you establish in your setting, you’ll want
to provide at least a minimal description—the core
concept of that nation. The amount of additional detail
you provide depends on the needs of your story. You
likely want to establish enough information to create a
stat block (page 130) for the nation your adventurers are
from, any nations they’re likely to spend significant time
in, and those nations’ main allied and enemy nations, if
they are likely to become part of the plot.
When building a nation, remember that the various
elements connect to the history of the land and its people,
its relationships with nearby nations, and the current
residents. This interconnectedness will help you build a
wealth of story hooks and provide immersive detail for
your players.
Beyond those basic details, the following considerations
can help flesh out the nations in your setting.
LoCation, Size, and popuLation
Major geographical boundaries, such as mountains,
seas, and large rivers, often present natural borders
for a realm. Depending on its leadership, culture, and
the resources available, a country may be as small as a
city‑state or as large as a continent‑sweeping empire.
Barring widely available technological or magical travel
and communication, most nations remain relatively
small (only a few hundred miles across), simply because
it becomes too difficult for a single governing entity to
oversee and maintain the entirety of a larger state.
National populations ebb and flow due to a multitude
of external factors. Advances in sanitation, medicine, and
agriculture can spur dramatic population growth, while
war, famine, or plague can devastate it. As a rule, smaller
nation‑states have a population around a hundred
thousand, while a continent‑spanning empire could swell
to well over a hundred million.
2
Tools
125
125
introduction
Gamemastery
Basics
Tools
Subsystems
Variant Rules
NPC Gallery
GLOSSARY
and INDEX
