RUN OVER [three-actions]
MOVE
RECKLESS
Requirements You are piloting a vehicle.
You try to run over creatures with your vehicle, possibly also
ramming one larger creature or object. If you maintain control of
your vehicle, the vehicle moves up to twice its Speed in a straight
line at the vehicle’s current heading. You attempt to run over
any creatures in your path two sizes smaller than the vehicle or
smaller, and you can attempt to ram one target creature or object
in your path one size smaller than the vehicle or larger.
Each creature in your path, including a rammed target, takes
the vehicle’s collision damage (basic Reflex save at vehicle’s
collision DC). If the rammed target is a vehicle, its pilot can
attempt a piloting check in place of this Reflex save, with the
same results. If the target of your ram takes damage, you and
your vehicle each take collision damage (no save) and your
movement ends.
STOP [one-action]
MANIPULATE
Requirements You are piloting a vehicle in motion.
You bring the vehicle to a stop.
TAKE CONTROL [one-action]
MANIPULATE
Requirements You are aboard the vehicle and adjacent to
its controls.
You grab the reins, the wheel, or some other mechanism to
control the vehicle. Attempt a piloting check; on a success, you
become the vehicle’s pilot, or regain control of the vehicle if it
was uncontrolled. Some vehicles have complicated controls that
cause this action to become a multi-action activity.
RECKLESS PILOTING
Actions that have the reckless trait push the pilot and the
vehicle beyond the normal parameters for safe operation,
and the pilot risks losing control of the vehicle. When
performing a reckless action, the pilot must first attempt
an appropriate piloting check to keep control of the
vehicle, with the following effects. Resolve this piloting
check before resolving the action itself.
Success The action occurs as described.
Failure The vehicle moves its Speed in a straight line along its
most recent heading, drifting up to 45 degrees at the GM’s
discretion, and becomes uncontrolled.
UNCONTROLLED VEHICLES
Some situations can cause a pilot to lose control of their
vehicle. Most commonly, this is due to a failed piloting
check for a reckless action, but it can also occur if a round
passes without a pilot using a move action to control the
vehicle or Stopping the vehicle. A vehicle can also become
uncontrolled if the pilot becomes unable to act during
a move action to control the vehicle. For example, if a
Gamemastery Guide
176
176
