BUILDING HAZARDS
Building hazards designed for your game allows you to customize them to match your
story, location, and needs, as well as to surprise the other players at every turn. There’s no
wrong way to create a hazard, but this guide presents the information in the order you
might see it in a hazard stat block.
CONCEPT
The first thing you’ll need is a concept for your hazard.
What level is your hazard? Will it be simple or complex? Is
it a trap, a haunt, an environmental hazard, or something
else? If it’s a trap, is it mechanical, magical, or both? This is a
good time to brainstorm the hazard’s name and description,
as this will help you decide how the hazard can be disabled.
The following information builds on concepts from
Building Creatures, which starts on page 56.
HAZARD TYPES
The three main types of hazards are traps, environmental
hazards, and haunts.
Traps are usually built or placed, though they can also
form accidentally, such as if a magic
portal, through millennia of disuse,
malfunctions as its magic warps. Mechanical traps always
have some physical component, whereas purely magical traps
typically don’t. Magical traps can usually be counteracted
by dispel magic, and those without a listed proficiency rank
for Stealth can be found using detect magic. Thievery is the
most common skill used to disable traps.
Environmental hazards are either living things, like
dangerous spores and molds, or simply features of the
terrain or environment, like avalanches or rockslides. While
they are always physical, some environmental hazards can’t
reasonably be attacked or damaged, such as a cloud of
poisonous gas or a patch of quicksand. Survival is the most
common skill used to disable environmental hazards.
Haunts are spiritual hazards, usually formed when the
spiritual essence of a location is imprinted with the instincts
and emotions from a living being’s demise. Because haunts
lack matter, they rarely involve a physical component, and
when they do, that component is generally incorporeal or
might even be damaged only by positive energy. The skills
and options used to disable haunts vary, though using
Religion for an exorcism is common. However, even with
a successful check to disable a haunt, it can reoccur until
its unfinished business is resolved. Typically, successfully
disabling or enduring a haunt provides clues to determine
what it would take to lay it to rest permanently.
UNDERSTANDING AND
CHOOSING STATISTICS
Much like for creatures, hazard statistics can be extreme,
high, or low (hazards don’t need as much granularity, so
they usually don’t have moderate or terrible values for their
statistics). While they are defined in creature creation, when
building a hazard, you’ll use the values slightly differently.
Extreme: While extreme values remain
world-class statistics that are extremely difficult
to meet or exceed, unlike with monsters, almost
all hazards have one extreme statistic because
hazards normally activate only if they have
gone unnoticed or if someone critically
failed to disable them. Does it
have an extreme Stealth DC that
makes it incredibly hard to find,
an extreme Disable DC that makes
it perilous to disable, or an extreme
save DC that makes it deadly in
the event it triggers? These are the most
common choices, as each affects a different
phase of encountering the hazard.
Gamemastery Guide
74
74
