resistances, weaknesses, and immunity to falling damage
to the triggering effect.
MEGAFLORA
GRAND GIFT
CONJURATION
PLANT
Aspect plant
Activate [two-actions] command, Interact; Frequency once per day;
Effect With a pulse of natural energy,
your relic grows massive plants
in an instant. The megaflora is
of one of the following types,
chosen by the GM when the
relic gains this gift. A megaflora
appears in an unoccupied 10-foot
space within 30 feet and has
50 Hit Points, weakness to
fire 5, 37 AC, +20 Reflex, and
+30 Fortitude. It persists for
1 minute or until reduced to 0
Hit Points.
• Corpseflower A single putrid-
smelling flower grows at the
target location. While the
flower persists, each round
at the end of your turn, all
creatures in a 20-foot burst centered on the plant
except you must succeed at a Fortitude save or be
sickened 2 (also stunned 2 on a critical failure). This is a
poison effect.
• Thorns A 10-foot-tall thorned plant or bamboo stalk
grows at the target location. While the stalk persists,
each round at the end of your turn, sharp stakes erupt
from the ground, dealing 6d8 piercing damage to all
creatures in a 20-foot burst centered on the plant
except you (basic Reflex)
• Tree of Life A large tree bearing life-giving fruit grows
at the target location. While the tree persists, living
creatures within reach of the tree can use an Interact
action to pick and eat one of the tree’s fruits, regaining
2d8+5 Hit Points; picking a fruit without eating it
causes the fruit to instantly vanish. This is a healing
effect, and a given creature can heal from the tree only
once per round.
SHADOW GIFTS
ENCOMPASSING DARKNESS
MINOR GIFT
CONJURATION
SHADOW
Aspect shadow
The shadows at your feet can hold objects. You can Interact
with your shadow to store or remove objects, just like you
would a mundane container. Your shadow can contain 3
Bulk of objects, which don’t count toward the Bulk you are
carrying. At 6th level, and every 4 levels thereafter, you can
store 1 additional Bulk of objects in your shadow. While the
items are in your shadow and can be detected normally, you
gain a +4 circumstance bonus to Stealth checks to Conceal
the Objects unless someone knows to check your shadow
for items.
OBSCURE
MINOR GIFT
ILLUSION
SHADOW
Aspect shadow
Your relic absorbs light and wraps shadow around you, hiding
you in darkness. As long as you are in dim
light in an area of shadows, you can attempt
a Stealth check to Hide, even if you aren’t
concealed against the creature, such as with
a creature with darkvision.
SHADOW SMITH
MINOR GIFT
CONJURATION
SHADOW
Aspect shadow
Activate [one-action] Interact; Effect Your relic
pulls at nearby shadows, twisting
them into the shape of a simple
weapon or a simple tool or item, such as
a rope or crowbar. It lasts until it is used
for a single activity, until you use shadow
smith again, or for 1 minute, whichever comes first, after
which it dissipates.
DANCING SHADOW
MAJOR GIFT
SHADOW
EVOCATION
Aspect shadow; Prerequisites The relic is a weapon.
Activate [two-actions] command, Interact; Frequency once per hour;
Effect Your relic’s shadow detaches from your relic and
dances through the air to attack an enemy. When you
Activate the relic, designate a target. The relic’s shadow
flies up to 60 feet until it is adjacent to that foe and
then makes a Strike against it, dealing 5d8 damage on a
success or double that on a critical success; the damage
type is of any type normally dealt by your relic. The
shadow uses your attack bonus with the relic, and it uses
and contributes to your multiple attack penalty. While this
activation is in effect, you can use a single action, which
has the attack and concentrate traits, to mentally direct
the shadow to make another Strike against the same
target. The shadow lasts until that target is reduced to
0 Hit Points, that target moves more than 400 feet from
you, or that target moves to an area where no shadow
could be cast, such as an area of complete darkness,
whichever comes first.
The shadow doesn’t take up space, grant flanking, or have
any other attributes a creature would, and it automatically
follows the chosen foe. The shadow can’t make any attack
other than its Strike, and feats or spells that affect weapons
do not apply to it.
DARK ROADS
MAJOR GIFT
CONJURATION
SHADOW
TELEPORTATION
Aspect shadow
Gamemastery Guide
104
104
