Goals involving organizations are a good opportunity to
use the leadership subsystem on page 168. If players don’t
have clear ideas for their goals, look at their backgrounds,
NPCs they know, and things they’ve expressed interest in
during adventures to develop some suggestions. Remember
that you’re not trying to get them to accept your exact
suggestions, but to pick a goal they really like.
Long-term goals should shape the game, and reinforcing
their progress is key. Show changes, good and bad, that
result from the PCs’ efforts, both in downtime and on
their adventures if applicable. This doesn’t have to be
subtle! You can directly say, “You’ve been trying to get the
magistrate to allow you to buy this plot of land, but the
fact that you entered the wizard’s tower illegally seems to
have soured him toward you.”
Think ahead in stages. For instance, if a PC wants to run
a business, you might have them...
• Start with a simple stand to sell their wares.
• Show they’re drawing big crowds and need to expand.
• Build a storefront.
• Open to modest success.
• Get a small but loyal following.
• Hire employees to keep up with demand.
• Deal with supply issues or competition.
• Get enough interest in a nearby settlement that they
might want to expand their business.
And so on. You can deliver each of these details through
a little vignette. For example, if you use the second bullet
point, you might describe the throng of people crowded
around the PCs’ stand, and say they sold out of goods
before half the people were served. Downtime goals are a
great way to weave the PCs’ agency into the story.
SUCCESS AND FAILURE
Success at a reasonable long-term goal should be likely,
but not guaranteed. Give the player an expectation of how
likely their goal is to work out based on how ambitious it is.
Be clear about how much downtime it will take compared
to the amount of downtime you expect the party will get
during your campaign. Then let the player decide how to
commit their downtime, and to which tasks.
Repeated failures or outside problems could lead to the
whole goal failing. It happens! But give the player a fair
chance. Even if their goal is really hard to achieve—like
driving the undead out of Ustalav—they might find a way.
Don’t undermine their efforts or ideas, but do make clear
the magnitude of the task they’ve chosen. Remember that
even if a goal fails, the effort was worthwhile.
A failure or a success at a long-term goal can be a
major emotional beat for the character. They’ve changed
the world, after all! Don’t shortchange it just because it
happened in downtime. In fact, because it might have
taken place over multiple sessions, the player might have
been looking forward to the results for a really long time!
1
Gamemastery Basics
23
23
introduction
Gamemastery
Basics
Tools
Subsystems
Variant Rules
NPC Gallery
GLOSSARY
and INDEX
