USING THE NPC GALLERY
In this section, you’ll find all kinds of NPCs across a variety of categories and roles
for you to use in your game. Their levels span from –1 to 8, the range you most
often need for stock characters. Since high-level opponents, major villains, ruling
monarchs, and the like tend to be unique individuals, you’ll likely create those
NPCs specifically for the role they serve, using the rules for Building Creatures on
page 56. But you can never have too many lower-level NPCs on hand when the
PCs unexpectedly take an unusually keen interest in an NPC or pick a fight at a
roadside tavern.
The level listed on an NPC’s stat block is their level assuming they’re used in
combat; they should be able to hold their own as well as any other creature of that
level. But many of these NPCs are primarily noncombatants who are much more
skilled in their occupation than they ever would be in combat. To that end, those
specialist NPCs’ entries also mention a higher level that you would use when the
PCs have to compete against them in their area of expertise.
CUSTOMIZING NPCS
The NPCs in this gallery are all humans with no languages besides Common. In
some cases, such as human-centric Taldor where Common is the official language,
you can most likely use the NPCs in this section as written. But more often, you’ll
need to make minor adjustments to the details to portray a particular NPC.
Since these stat blocks present the most basic possible version for each character,
you shouldn’t need to remove any statistics or abilities unless your NPC can’t
speak Common.
The next few sections provide guidelines and ancestry adjustments you can use
to quickly customize a default NPC.
ADJUSTING LEVEL
Sometimes you’ll need an NPC that fills a particular role—say an angry drunk—
but the level in the stat block presented isn’t the right fit for your group. You can
start by applying the elite or weak adjustments on page 6 of the Bestiary to adjust
the NPC’s level by 1 in either direction.
If you need to change the NPC’s level beyond that, use the values from the tables
in Building Creatures in Chapter 2, and add or remove special abilities as necessary
to suit the NPC’s new level.
CHANGING ALIGNMENT
Aside from some obviously aligned NPCs, like the villains, most of the NPCs in
this gallery are presented as neutral. If you want to change an NPC’s alignment,
all you have to do is change their alignment trait. You might consider how the
new alignment affects the NPC’s personality and adjust their skills accordingly;
for instance, a lawful evil teacher might have a higher modifier for Intimidation
than Diplomacy.
CHANGING LANGUAGES
If you need a human character who speaks more languages to fit their backstory,
nation of origin, or role, simply add those languages.
CHAPTER MAP
The chapter divides NPCs into 18
sections to make it easier for you to
find the types of characters you need
for your game.
• Courtiers (page 206)
• Criminals (page 208)
• Devotees (page 212)
• Downtrodden (page 214)
• Explorers (page 216)
• Foresters (page 218)
• Healers (page 220)
• Laborers (page 222)
• Magistrates (page 224)
• Mercenaries (page 226)
• Mystics (page 228)
• Officers (page 232)
• Performers (page 236)
• Publicans (page 238)
• Scholars (page 240)
• Seafarers (page 242)
• Tradespeople (page 244)
• Villains (page 246)
CHAPTER 5: NPC GALLERY
Monsters and PCs aren’t the only inhabitants of your world. Though they might not be
heroes, NPCs can play various roles in your game, such as calling PCs to adventure, serving
as obstacles in social encounters, or opposing PCs in battle. This chapter presents almost a
hundred NPCs for your game, plus rules to modify them to fit any particular niche.
5
NPC Gallery
203
203
introduction
Gamemastery
Basics
Tools
Subsystems
Variant Rules
NPC Gallery
GLOSSARY
and INDEX
