ADVENTURE DESIGN
When making your own adventure, you get to choose the themes, play style, and NPCs that
most appeal to you and your group. This section gives you tips for making your adventures
exciting and memorable, and for creating them quickly and efficiently.
Creating an adventure for your players can be one of the
most fulfilling parts of being a GM. Get started with the
basic tips on adventure building on page 487 of the Core
Rulebook, then flesh out your adventure using the following
adventure recipes to quickly outline an adventure based on
your chosen theme. Reading other adventures is a great
way to get ideas, whether they’re published adventures or
ones your friends have written. You can borrow ideas and
structures if they work for your game, and tweak as needed.
PLAYER MOTIVATIONS
One of your most important and rewarding tasks is getting
to know your players and what makes them tick, then
implementing plot hooks that speak to their motivations.
If your players all like similar things (maybe they all like
epic storylines, or all prefer tactical combat), your job will
be a bit easier. But for most groups there’s a mix, and you’ll
want to put in a detailed NPC who appeals to one player’s
love of social scenes, a powerful villain to engage a player
who loves stories of winning against overwhelming odds,
and exotic animals that attract a player who’s into having
animal friends. If you’re not sure what your players enjoy,
ask them in advance what they’d like to see in the game!
Considering player motivations doesn’t mean assuming
you know what the players or their characters will do!
It can be risky to expect PCs to react in certain ways or
take certain paths. Knowing their motivations gives you
a way to put in elements you expect will appeal to your
players, but their decisions will still take the adventure in
unexpected directions. The important thing is getting the
players engaged, not predicting the future.
KEEPING IT VARIED
You can give players variety through the types of challenges
the group faces (combat, social, problem-solving, and so
on), the locations they explore, the NPCs they meet, the
monsters they face, and the treasure they acquire. Even if
you’re building an enclosed dungeon, you don’t want to
place a combat in every room, or exploration will quickly
become stale.
Think in terms of sessions. If your group gets through
five scenes per session, how do you make one game session
feel different from another? Maybe two of the scenes in
each are fairly basic combat encounters, but if you make
the other scenes significantly different, or even if you set the
encounters in different environments, the sessions won’t
feel repetitive. Also think about the tools used to solve
each situation. Maybe one requires complex negotiations,
another brute force, and a third sneaking about. Aim to
give everybody something compelling, and ideally targeted
at their motivations. This translates to mechanical details,
too. Inching across a balance beam requires different skills
than rebuilding a broken key.
THEME AND FEELING
Think about the emotional and thematic touchstones
you want to hit during play. Good games elicit strong
emotions, and planning for them can give an emotional arc
to an adventure in addition to the narrative arc. Consider
what you want players to feel as they play. Is it triumph?
Dread? Sadness? Optimism? None of these will be the only
emotions to come out, but they will inform how you build
the settings and NPCs. Adventure Recipes (below) gives
steps to effectively implement theme and feeling.
ADVENTURE RECIPES
These procedures help you build an adventure skeleton
or outline. You’ll then go through and flesh out the details
of the adventure, including adversaries and locations. As
you play, you’ll keep adjusting to fit the events of the
game. Anything you haven’t already introduced can be
changed as needed. Just like with any recipe, you’re meant
to adjust the details to fit your group’s preferences. You
might stray far from your starting point, and that’s OK!
These recipes use six steps. You might want to look
ahead to your future steps and make choices out of
order based on what’s most important for you to convey.
The catch-all term “opposition” refers to the various
adversaries and obstacles the PCs will face. The opposition
should be thematically consistent, but not necessarily
monolithic. It might contain multiple individuals or
groups, who might not get along with one another.
 • Styles (page 41): The overall vibe of your game, such
as a gritty game, dungeon crawl, or high adventure.
These frameworks offer guidelines for the number of
sessions and types of encounters that work best.
 • Threats (page 43): Thematic dangers to incorporate
into your game, and ways to evoke them as you play.
The style and threat are the core parts of your recipe.
 • Motivations (page 44): Determine more specifically
what the opposition’s goals and motivations are.
 • Story Arcs (page 44): This section gives you guidance
on how to construct story arcs that will play out
over your adventure and maybe beyond.
 • NPCs and Organizations (page 45): The characters
and factions you include should fit the theme.
 • Mechanics (page 45): Your last step is adding in the
individual creatures, hazards, treasure, and so on.
Gamemastery Guide
40
40
