with the party or a new PC hoping to join the party. For
instance, if the PCs are running a mercenary army, a rising
officer might become a new PC. Treat such NPC cohorts
and PCs just like any other additional characters in the
party, with an enriched story that ties them to the PCs.
RUNNING LEADERSHIP
When running a game with the leadership subsystem,
adding new NPCs who join the PCs’ cause becomes a type
of reward you should grant the PCs consistently throughout
the campaign. For a typical rate of growth, give the PCs
enough followers for the organization to level up at roughly
the same rate as the PCs. In some cases, you might want
to vary that rate—sometimes drastically. Perhaps the
10th-level PCs have a 20th-level organization with top
lieutenants nearly as powerful as the PCs, or maybe the PCs
start gathering followers only at 15th level and start their
organization from scratch as a 1st-level organization.
LEADERSHIP EVENTS
During downtime, or over the course of long stretches
of time when the PCs aren’t in downtime but their
organization is operating in the background, you should
periodically provide special leadership events. These are
in addition to the events you would normally provide the
PCs during downtime. These should generally be a good
mix between the following three categories.
Opportunity: An opportunity offers the PCs a chance to
steer the ship for their organization by making a decision
that shapes the organization moving forward, with
consequences generally ranging from neutral to a mix of
good and bad. For instance, the Aspis Consortium offers
the PCs a deal to store their goods in the PCs’ mercenary
fort. Accepting gives the PCs money, but they’ll have to
deal with the consortium’s unsavory goods. Rejecting the
proposal might upset the consortium, but it allows the PCs
to show their priorities between conscience and coin.
Trouble: Something’s gone wrong with the organization,
requiring the PCs’ attention or assistance to solve. Perhaps
the thieves’ guild is dealing with a clever new guard
captain and needs help from the PCs to stay safe. Typically
the resources the PCs need to invest to solve the troubles
should be less than the benefits the PCs gain from windfalls
to ensure that the organization is providing a substantial
benefit to the PCs, rather than simply evening out.
Windfall: The organization has received an unexpected
benefit that helps the PCs. This is typically access to an
uncommon option: perhaps the organization researched a
new spell or discovered the techniques for an uncommon
feat. However, it could be extra money or resources, clues
for the PCs’ adventures, political prestige, or anything else
you can think of. The players might even be able to suggest
a few options for their followers and lieutenants to work
toward to give you some ideas.
3
Subsystems
169
169
introduction
Gamemastery
Basics
Tools
Subsystems
Variant Rules
NPC Gallery
GLOSSARY
and INDEX
