NPC ANCESTRY ADJUSTMENTS
To use one of the NPCs in this section to represent an NPC of a different ancestry, apply
the adjustments below for the desired ancestry. These provide the basic features from
that ancestry, like darkvision, altered Speed, and unique abilities like a halfling’s keen
eyes. For other ancestries, you can create similar templates following the same format.
In addition to these base changes, you can add the effects of a specific heritage: you
might apply the snow goblin heritage if your NPC is a Frostfur goblin and you want
them to have cold resistance. You can also give them an ancestry feat, or even adjust
their ability scores and skills to reflect the new ancestry’s strengths and weaknesses.
For a half-elf, half-orc, or any other heritage essential to the character, you
should always apply the heritage effect.
Dwarf
 • Change the human trait to dwarf.
 • Add Dwarven to the NPC’s languages.
 • Add darkvision.
 • Decrease the NPC’s Speed by 5 feet. If the NPC already has a reduced Speed due
to their armor, consider applying the Unburdened Iron ancestry feat.
Elf
 • Change the human trait to elf.
 • Add Elven to the NPC’s languages.
 • Add low-light vision.
 • Increase the NPC’s Speed by 5 feet.
GnomE
 • Change the human trait to gnome.
 • Add Gnomish and Sylvan to the NPC’s languages.
 • Add low-light vision.
Goblin
 • Change the human trait to goblin.
 • Add Goblin to the NPC’s languages.
 • Add darkvision.
HalflinG
 • Change the human trait to halfling.
 • Add Halfling to the NPC’s languages.
 • Add the keen eyes ability below.
KEEN EYES
Your eyes are sharp, allowing you to make out small details about concealed or even
invisible creatures that others might miss. You gain a +2 circumstance bonus when using
the Seek action to find hidden or undetected creatures within 30 feet of you. When you
target an opponent that is concealed from you or hidden from you, reduce the DC of the
flat check to 3 for a concealed target or 9 for a hidden one.
MAKING A SPECIALIST
These NPCs contain several specialists, such as barristers and navigators, who are a
higher-level challenge at their specialty than in combat, and often have a special ability
related to it. To make your own specialists, you can easily switch out skills, but you
might want to use the following special abilities to make those NPCs more evocative!
Butter Up (emotion, mental) When someone eats a dish or treat made by this NPC, the NPC
can attempt a Baking Lore, Cooking Lore, or similar check against that creature’s Will DC,
with the same results as the Make an Impression action of Diplomacy. If more than one
creature partakes, the NPC uses the same check result against each creature’s Will DC.
ORGANIZATION AND
DEITY TEMPLATES
In addition to the templates in this
book, the Pathfinder Lost Omens
Character Guide presents theme
templates to quickly and easily make
these NPCs members of various
organizations (see Theme Templates
on page 116). If you’re looking
for adherents of a specific deity,
Pathfinder Lost Omens Gods & Magic
offers a theme template (see Theme
Templates on page 9) that allows you
to customize an NPC to fit any deity,
or a deity of your own creation!
Gamemastery Guide
204
204
