and you’ll find it helpful to read that chapter before
delving into this book. This book provides more detail
on those topics, as well as many more tools to help you
make your game a fun and memorable experience for
everyone involved.
Throughout most of this book, “you” refers to the
Game Master. In some sections of player-facing material,
however, such as some player-focused variant rules and
the actions for certain subsystems, “you” instead refers
to the player using that material.
Pathfinder as a game is all about customization, and
this book provides you as the Game Master ways to
customize your game just as a player customizes their
character. The toolbox nature of the Gamemastery Guide
makes it easy to take and use whatever components you
need for the game
you’re
running
at any time. As
with any toolbox,
you won’t need to use
everything at once!
CHOOSING
YOUR
TOOLS
The tools of this book
you’ll use most depend
on what kind of Game Master you are, what your players
want, and the story you’re telling together.
No two Game Masters are the same. Perhaps you’re
a veteran Game Master who’s looking for new ways to
customize the game and tailor it to suit your interests
and those of your players. Or perhaps you’re a brand
new GM and looking for guidance to feel comfortable
leading a game of your own. Maybe you’ve been a Game
Master for years, but this is your first time running a
Pathfinder game. No matter where you are as a Game
Master, this book is a valuable tool that can help you
tell the stories you want to tell with your players.
If you’re a newer Game Master, you’ll find a wealth
of information to help you feel confident in running
your games. Chapter 1 in particular can help you better
understand how to run a game in the different modes of
play, how to adjudicate the rules quickly and fairly, and
what to do when special circumstances or problems crop
up at your table. This chapter also contains advice on
using and determining rarity in your game, working with
your players to create a collaborative story, and adapting
your game to meet the needs of the players at your table.
You’ll also find the NPC Gallery in Chapter 5 useful as a
source of stock NPCs to play a role in your game and also
for examples to compare against when using the rules in
Chapter 2 to build your own monsters and NPCs.
If you’re a Game Master running a published
Pathfinder adventure, you’ll find guidance in Chapter 1
specifically for running published adventures, and much
of the advice in that chapter about running a game applies
to published adventures. A number of adventures—
especially scenarios in the Pathfinder Society Organized
Play campaign and Pathfinder Adventure Path volumes—
use the subsystems in Chapter 3. The Victory Points
subsystem is the most fundamental of these, but many
adventures also use the other subsystems found here,
such as vehicles, chases, and influence.
If you are looking to create your own Pathfinder
adventures, Chapter 1 provides you design guidance
ranging from the broad strokes of an entire campaign,
to individual adventures, and then to the particular
considerations of any given encounter. Chapter 2 is a
veritable toolbox you can use to build the creatures,
hazards, items, and other elements you want to use in
your adventures. If you plan to set
your adventures in a world of your
own design, the world-building
section of Chapter 2 can guide that
process and help you establish the
details you’ll need to ensure your
setting is a vibrant backdrop for
fantastic adventure. The NPC
Gallery in Chapter 5
can help populate
your story and
world so that
you don’t have
to create every
element from scratch.
If you’re an experienced Game Master, you will find
a wealth of customization options to tailor your games
to the needs of players. The advice in Chapter 1, such as
the guidance to make encounters more dynamic, can help
you fine-tune your GM skills and enrich your game. Using
the tools in Chapter 2, you’ll be able to build precisely the
option you need for any game. Chapter 3 offers a variety
of rules subsystems that provide a framework for specific
endeavors and situations, from chases and duels to social
influence and overland exploration. In Chapter 4, you’ll
find variant rules options that let you tweak specific
elements of the game, from backgrounds to the entire
mathematical underpinning of the game, to suit your
preferences or the needs of a particular setting or story.
REMEMBER THE FIRST RULE
The first rule of Pathfinder is that this game is yours. The
rest of the rules exist for you to use to tell the stories
you want to tell and share exciting adventures with your
friends. There are plenty of rules in this book, but none
of them overrule that first rule. Take the rules that help
you make the game you want, change those that don’t
do quite what you need them to, and leave the ones that
aren’t helping. It’s your game. There’s no right or wrong
way to GM so long as everyone is having fun—and that
includes you!
Introduction
5
introduction
Gamemastery
Basics
Tools
Subsystems
Variant Rules
NPC Gallery
GLOSSARY
and INDEX
