Exploring the planes offers several opportunities for high
adventure, as well chances to discover the secrets of creation.
PLANAR TRAITS
Each plane, dimension, and demiplane has its own properties
and attributes. Planar traits can be broken down into six
categories: alignment, scope, gravity, time, morphic, and
planar essence. Combined, those traits describe the laws and
makeup of the plane. These appear in the plane’s traits entry,
though any trait that matches the Material Plane (described
in the Normal entry in each section below) is omitted.
ENHANCED AND IMPEDED MAGIC
Some planes enhance certain magic and impede opposing
effects. A plane that enhances a particular type of
magic grants anyone Casting a Spell with that trait a +1
circumstance bonus to their spell DC or spell attack roll
with that spell. Impeded magic means a character who Casts
a Spell or Activates an Item with the specified trait must
succeed at a DC 6 flat check or lose the spell or activation.
ALIGNMENT TRAIT
Certain planes, particularly in the Outer Sphere, are attuned
to an alignment. Most inhabitants share that alignment—
even powerful creatures such as deities. Planes with the
neutral alignment trait are more often a mix of alignments
than strongly neutral, and planes with no alignment affinity
simply don’t have an alignment trait, rather than being
neutral. Alignments are given as an abbreviation (Pathfinder
Bestiary 345), which appears first in the plane’s list of traits.
Spells that share any of the plane’s alignment traits are
enhanced, and those with opposing traits are impeded. For
instance, in the chaotic evil Abyss, chaotic and evil spells are
enhanced, and lawful and good spells are impeded.
SCOPE TRAIT
Most planes are immeasurable, so immense they are
impossible to quantify. Which immeasurable planes, if any,
are infinite is a subject of debate among philosophers and
scholars alike. Since so many planes are immeasurable,
those planes omit a scope trait. Otherwise, the plane likely
has either the finite or unbounded trait.
Finite: Finite planes consist of a limited amount of space.
Immeasurable: Immeasurable planes are immeasurably
large, perhaps infinite.
THE PLANES
Beyond the world of Golarion and the void of space beyond it lie the vast planes of
existence referred to as the Great Beyond. Often alien and dangerous, most of these
planes embody some foundational aspect of reality—one of the chief elements that make
up the rest of the multiverse, a kind of fundamental energy, or an alignment. Each plane
is a reality unto itself, with its own laws of existence and its own native inhabitants who
might visit, grant benefits to residents of, or cause havoc on the face of Golarion.
Unbounded: Unbounded planes loop back on themselves
when a creature reaches the plane’s “edge.”
GRAVITY TRAITS
Many planes have unusual gravity.
Normal: Bodies of great mass are the centers of gravity,
and objects fall toward those centers with a measured
amount of force relative to the size of the body.
High Gravity: As in normal gravity, bodies of great mass
act as centers of gravity, but the force relative to the size of
the body is greater than on the Material Plane. The Bulk
of all creatures and objects is doubled, meaning creatures
acclimated to normal gravity can carry only half as much.
Creatures used to normal gravity move at half Speed and can
jump only half as high and far. Physical ranged attacks are
impossible beyond the third range increment (instead of the
sixth). Creatures that fall in high gravity take bludgeoning
damage equal to the distance they fell.
Low Gravity: As in normal gravity, bodies of great mass
act as centers of gravity, but the force relative to the size
of the body is less than on the Material Plane. The Bulk
of all creatures and objects is halved, meaning creatures
acclimated to normal gravity can carry twice as much and
jump twice as high and far. Physical ranged attacks are
possible up to the twelfth range increment (instead of the
sixth). Creatures that fall in low gravity take no damage for
the first 10 feet of a fall, and then take bludgeoning damage
equal to a quarter of the remaining distance it fell.
Microgravity: There is little to no gravity on this plane.
Creatures float in space unless they can push off a surface or
use some force to propel themselves throughout the plane.
Strange Gravity: All bodies of mass are centers of gravity
with roughly the same force. A creature can stand on any
solid objects that is as large as or larger than themself.
Subjective Gravity: All bodies of mass can be centers
of gravity with the same force, but only if a non‑mindless
creature wills it. Unattended items, objects, and mindless
creatures treat the plane as having microgravity. Creatures
on a plane with subjective gravity can move normally
along a solid surface by imagining “down” near their
feet. Designating this downward direction is a free action
that has the concentration trait. If suspended in midair,
a creature can replicate flight by choosing a “down”
direction and falling in that direction, moving up to their
Speed or fly Speed. This pseudo‑flight uses the Fly action.
Gamemastery Guide
136
136
