Effect Your relic opens a gate within itself, overwhelming
your enemies with fiends. You cast 6th-level summon
fiend, but summon two fiends instead of one, and you
can command them both with 1 action to Sustain a
Spell. If the relic has the profane fervor gift, this
activation grants the effects of that gift as well,
without expending its daily use. For the next
minute, you can use the following activation.
Activate [free-action] envision; Trigger One of the fiends
summoned
by
command
legion
is
banished; Effect You summon that same
fiend again in an adjacent space. The
fiend returns at full Hit Points and all
conditions, spells, and other effects on it
end before you summon it again. However, it does not
recover any limited-use abilities it used before, such
as innate spells or abilities with a Frequency entry.
FIRE GIFTS
FLARE BOLT
MINOR GIFT
EVOCATION
FIRE
Aspect fire
Activate [two-actions] command, Interact; Effect A bolt of flames
scorches out from the relic. Make a spell attack roll
with your relic against a target within 30 feet. The bolt
deals 1d6 fire damage for every 2 levels the relic has
(minimum 1d6).
Critical Success The bolt deals double damage, as well as
persistent fire damage equal to the level of the relic.
Success The bolt deals full damage.
HEAT HAZE
MINOR GIFT
ABJURATION
FIRE
Aspect fire
Your relic’s heat keeps the air around you pleasantly warm.
While you are holding or wearing the relic, it protects you
from severe environmental cold. At 9th level, it also protects
you from extreme cold, and at 17th level, it protects you
from incredible cold. At 4th level, the relic also gains the
following activation.
Activate [two-actions] command, envision; Frequency once per day;
Effect Your relic erratically elevates the air temperature
around you, creating heat shimmers that distort your
appearance and grant you the concealed condition for
1 minute. As the nature of this effect still leaves your
location obvious, you can’t use this concealment to Hide
or Sneak.
INCANDESCENT SIGHT
MINOR GIFT
DIVINATION
FIRE
Aspect fire
Activate [two-actions] command, envision; Frequency once per day;
Effect Your eyes become attuned to heat signatures as
your vision extends into the infrared, granting you a
heatsight precise sense for 1 minute. Your heatsight can see
temperature gradients out to a range of 30 feet, allowing
you to detect living creatures and warm objects even in the
dark. Warm objects block your heatsight even if they are
transparent, such as hot water.
JET PROPULSION
MAJOR GIFT
EVOCATION
FIRE
Aspect fire
Activate [one-action] envision; Frequency once per hour; Effect Flames
from your relic channel through your body, erupting from
your feet, hands, or other limbs with enough force to blast
you across the ground and propel you through the air. For
1 minute, you gain a +10-foot status bonus to your Speed
and gain a fly Speed equal to your new Speed or 20 feet,
whichever is greater. You must end your turn on solid
ground, or you fall.
SEARING WAVE
MAJOR GIFT
EVOCATION
FIRE
Aspect fire
Activate [two-actions] command, Interact; Effect You
allow a portion of the fire magic housed in
your relic to escape in a direction of your
choice. You deal 1d10 fire damage for every 2
levels of the relic to all creatures in a 30-foot cone
(basic Reflex). You can’t use Searing Wave again for
1d4 rounds.
BLAZING SOUL
GRAND GIFT
EVOCATION
FIRE
Aspect fire
Fire magic suffuses your body and soul, protecting you from
lesser flames and allowing you to kindle even the smallest
sparks into powerful infernos. You gain fire resistance 10.
The first time each hour you are targeted by a fire effect that
would deal damage, you regain 1d8 HP for every counteract
level of the effect, in addition to taking the damage.
Activate [reaction] envision; Trigger A creature within 60 feet is
critically hit by or critically fails a save against a fire effect
and is not reduced to 0 Hit Points; Effect Flames roar forth
from the triggering creature, dealing 6d6 fire damage to
all creatures in a 15-foot burst centered on it, including
that creature (basic Reflex). You aren’t affected by the
activation, though your allies are. If this damage reduces
the triggering creature to 0 Hit Points, it is reduced to a fine
ash, though its gear remains. You can’t use this activation
again for 1d4 rounds.
LIFE GIFTS
BESTOW LIFE
MINOR GIFT
POSITIVE
TRANSMUTATION
Aspect life
Activate [two-actions] command, envision; Frequency once per day;
Effect An infusion of positive energy from your relic can
temporarily animate an unliving object. You transform an
2
Tools
101
101
introduction
Gamemastery
Basics
Tools
Subsystems
Variant Rules
NPC Gallery
GLOSSARY
and INDEX
