might think the NPC is susceptible to flattery when actually
the NPC is resistant to flattery.
INFLUENCE STAT BLOCKS
NPCs in the influence subsystem have little need for
many of the statistics you’ll find in an ordinary creature
stat block. However, it might help you to prepare for
the social encounter by creating an influence stat block
for each prominent NPC. These are optional; if you can
keep most information straight in your head, you might
skip this step or just write down the first three categories
to keep the numbers straight.
Influence stat blocks are flexible and contain only
the stats that you are essential to running the NPC
during a social encounter, leaving the rest out. The
main stats that matter are the NPC’s Perception and
Will modifiers.
NPC NAME
TRAITS
A succinct description of the NPC, such as “Famous musician”
or “Popular baron.”
Perception The NPC’s Perception modifier, plus potentially
relevant spells such as true sight.
Will The NPC’s Will modifier, plus any special adjustments.
Discovery The Perception DC to Discover information about
the NPC, as well as any skill checks to Discover their DCs.
Influence Skills The skills the PCs can use to Influence the
NPC are listed here with their DCs, in order from the
lowest DC (the skill that works best) to the highest DC.
If a skill isn’t listed but a player gives a strong narrative
explanation for using it, you can add it as an appropriate
DC (usually the highest listed DC). Diplomacy should
usually be on this list, but should rarely be the best skill to
Influence an NPC, in order to encourage and reward using
Discover to learn and cater to an NPC’s interests.
Influence Thresholds The number of Influence Points
required to Influence the PC, and the benefits for
meeting them. Some NPCs might have multiple influence
thresholds, granting the PCs additional benefits or favors
as they cross more thresholds.
Resistances Some NPCs are resistant to certain tactics,
biased against certain types of people, or may get
defensive when a certain topic comes up. Any of these
makes it harder for a PC to convince them. For instance,
an NPC might find flattery inane, dislike wizards, or
bristle at any mention of their ex-spouse. Typically, an
NPC’s resistance increases the DC of the associated
check to Influence by 2 (or 5 for stronger resistances),
but it could have farther-ranging consequences, such as
losing Influence Points or angering the NPC enough that
attempting to Influence them again is impossible.
Weaknesses Most NPCs have at least one weakness that
clever and observant PCs can use to their advantage,
whether it’s a deep-seated insecurity, a desire for power, a
favorite hobby, a bias toward a certain group, or a hidden
secret the PCs could threaten to expose. When a PC
incorporates an NPC’s weakness, it typically decreases
the associated Influence check’s DC by 2 (or 5 for
stronger weaknesses), but it could have farther-ranging
effects, such as gaining automatic Influence Points or
even automatically influencing the NPC regardless of
how many Influence Points the PCs have achieved so far.
SAMPLE STAT BLOCK
In this example, the PCs try to convince a grizzled landlord
to not evict a theatrical troupe from a dilapidated building
he owns. It’s a 3rd-level challenge. He is a busy, practical
man and gives the PCs only 45 minutes (3 rounds) to
make their case.
DANPHY MOLLWETHER
LE
MEDIUM
HUMAN
HUMANOID
Penny-pinching landlord
Perception +9
Will +12
Discovery DC 13 Mercantile Lore, DC 18 Perception,
DC 16 Society
Influence Skills DC 16 Accounting Lore (noting
how the theater could be made profitable),
DC 16 Crafting (volunteering to repair the building),
DC 20 Intimidation, DC 20 Performance, DC 22
Diplomacy, DC 24 Deception
Influence 4: Mr. Mollwether gives the troupe 1 week to
get him his back rent, with interest, before evicting
them.
Influence 6: Mr. Mollwether gives the troupe 1 month to
get him his back rent before evicting them.
Influence 8: Mr. Mollwether allows the troupe to stay,
reduces their rent, and forgives half their debt.
Resistances The landlord thinks in practical terms,
with little patience for the “good-for-nothings” of the
troupe. Appeals directed at sympathy alone increase
the check’s DC by 2.
Weaknesses Mr. Mollwether used to visit the theater
often as a small child, and performing one of his
favorite old songs or plays brings tears to his eyes and
reduces the Performance DC by 2.
Background Mollwether was raised by wealthy
parents who loved the arts and took him to the theater
often. A scandal left the family broke, and Danphy
clawed his way back up to a decent living. Becoming
something of a slumlord, he owns several properties
now and still feels he must exploit others to survive.
Appearance An elderly man in cheap dress clothes,
Mr. Mollwether looks like he’s never felt a moment of
love for anyone in his whole life.
Personality Impatient, crotchety, skeptical
Penalty Antagonizing Mr. Mollwether by
“sermonizing” or “wasting his time” causes him to cut
the meeting short, reducing it to 2 rounds instead of 3.
Gamemastery Guide
152
152
