After the influence stat block, you might want to
list important information to help you roleplay the
NPC and incorporate the NPC into your influence
encounter. You can list any of the following details that
are relevant to your NPC: their background (a brief
bio focusing on information relevant to the encounter),
appearance, personality (this can just be a list of
adjectives), affiliations, public goals, hidden agendas,
or the penalty for antagonizing the NPC (or possibly
for failing to Influence the NPC, depending on the way
you structure the encounter).
SETTING DCS
When setting DCs, it’s often good to start with a “social
level” for the NPC and set their DCs accordingly.
Use the DC adjustments from page 504 of the Core
Rulebook just like you normally would. A good
starting place is setting the NPC’s Will modifier, then
taking that DC and adjusting it for skills that are more
or less likely to work.
For instance, for a 3rd-level challenge, you might
give an NPC a +12 Will modifier and use 22 as the base
DC. You might say that’s the DC for Diplomacy but
then determine that the NPC is difficult to intimidate,
and so you apply the hard DC adjustment to make
the Intimidation DC 24. Maybe you also determine
that she loves different varieties of wine, resulting in
an incredibly easy DC adjustment to get DC 12 for
Alcohol Lore.
RUNNING AN INFLUENCE
ENCOUNTER
When running an influence encounter, let the PCs
be creative and use a diverse set of skills whenever
possible. Be open to improvisation, and change the
structure of the encounter if something interesting
presents itself. The PCs set the pace and choose with
whom they interact. It’s up to you to make sure every
NPC is distinct, react to the PCs’ interactions with the
NPCs, and lend overall structure to the encounter by
making sure it feels like a living, breathing event rather
than just a series of skill checks.
Think about how the number of rounds of a social
encounter relate to the overall event. For instance, if
you have a four-course banquet and 6 rounds, you
could have 1 round for introductions before the food
arrives, 1 round for each of the courses, and 1 last
round of conversations after the final course. NPCs
might filter in and out or become unavailable for
conversations as they are occupied by various tasks,
or become particularly eager to engage a PC. That sort
of change help makes the NPC feel a bit more real and
helps break up any repetition in your encounter.
3
Subsystems
153
153
introduction
Gamemastery
Basics
Tools
Subsystems
Variant Rules
NPC Gallery
GLOSSARY
and INDEX
