EXTREME INCREASES
At the higher levels of the game, PCs have more tools at
their disposal, so the creatures they face need to hit back
harder! At higher levels, give each creature more extreme
statistics. Having one extreme statistic becomes typical
around 11th level. A creature of 15th level or higher
typically has two extreme statistics, and one of 20th level
or higher should have three or four. Keep in mind that these
should be relevant to the encounters you expect them to
have—extreme social skills aren’t much use to a combat-
focused creature. Be careful about giving multiple extreme
statistics that are closely linked: a creature with extreme
damage and Fortitude saves is one thing, but having an
extreme attack bonus and extreme damage allows the
creature to apply both extreme statistics to each attack.
LEVEL
For most creatures you build, their level depends on the level
of the party who will encounter it. Look at other creatures
you think are similar in power to yours to determine its
level. Note that level represents a creature’s combat ability,
so a creature that’s more social might have, for example,
3rd-level combat statistics and 6th-level skills but remain
a 3rd-level creature. Most such creatures are NPCs; for
more information on this distinction and how to use it, see
Non-Combat Level on page 72.
Some abilities are hard for PCs to deal with at low
levels. For instance, creatures that can fly and have ranged
attacks should typically appear around 7th level, when
PCs gain access to flight. Natural invisibility or at-will
invisibility as an innate spell should come at around 6th
level, when PCs are more likely to prepare see invisibility
in lower-level spell slots, or 8th level, when some PCs get
the Blind-Fight feat.
The tables in this chapter go up to 24th level—the
highest-level extreme encounter a party might face.
ALIGNMENT, SIZE, AND
TRAITS
Fill out the trait line of your creature’s stat block. The
alignment can be whatever suits your story, though some
types of creatures must be or tend to be certain alignments.
Creatures can be whatever size you need them to be,
though you seldom find Large creatures below 1st level,
Huge creatures below 5th level, or Gargantuan creatures
below 10th level. Generally, you don’t automatically
adjust statistics for size, except for an exception to
Strength modifiers for Large and bigger creatures, which
you’ll find in Ability Modifiers on the next page.
Your creature will almost certainly have one of the
following traits to define its type: aberration, animal, astral,
beast, celestial, construct, dragon, elemental, ethereal, fey,
fiend, fungus, giant, humanoid, monitor, ooze, plant, or
undead. If you’re making a creature from an existing
category of a type, such as demon, it also has
that category as a trait. Creatures with a close
RESKINNING A CREATURE
Sometimes you need a creature with abilities that are almost
exactly the same as those of a published creature. In that case,
it can be more efficient to simply “reskin” the old creature
rather than design a new one—that is, to change the description
but keep the abilities mostly the same. Occasionally reskinning
requires small mechanical adjustments. For instance, a fire cat
that has immunity to fire, an aura that deals fire damage, and
the ability to light people on fire with its jaws to deal persistent
fire damage could be reskinned as a caustic animate tree that
has immunity to acid, an aura that deals acid damage, and
branch attacks that smear acidic sap on a creature’s body
when they hit, dealing persistent acid damage.
Gamemastery Guide
58
58
