SPLITTING AND COMBINING MOVEMENT
The different types of actions representing movement are
split up for convenience of understanding how the rules
work with a creature’s actions. However, you can end up
in odd situations, such as when a creature wants to jump
vertically to get something and needs to move just a bit to
get in range, then Leap, then continue moving. This can
end up feeling like they’re losing a lot of their movement
to make this happen. At your discretion, you can allow the
PCs to essentially combine these into one fluid movement
as a 2-action activity: moving into range for a Leap, then
Leaping, then using the rest of their Speed.
This typically works only for chaining types of movement
together. Doing something like Interacting to open a door
or making a Strike usually arrests movement long enough
that doing so in the middle of movement isn’t practical.
GOING GRIDLESS
As described on page 494 of the Core Rulebook, you can
play encounters without a grid. This is best for groups who
can easily imagine their surroundings without a visual aid,
and for battles that don’t require understanding a complex
physical space. Your game doesn’t have to be entirely
on or entirely off maps—you might decide to play out
most simple fights without a grid, then use one for highly
tactical fights or major set pieces. As noted in the Core
Rulebook, the 3-action structure is your best friend. You
might find yourself answering a lot of questions about
actions and space, like “Can I get there this turn,” or
“How many of the gnolls can I catch in a fireball?” If you
find yourself needing to repeatedly remind players of the
physical features of the environment or enemy positioning,
that might mean you’re making your encounters too
tactical for what a gridless game supports. This style works
better to encourage imaginative, cinematic action and
quick play without getting too hung up on details.
SPECIAL BATTLES AND
MOVEMENT
The Core Rulebook covers the essential rules for
mounted, aerial, and aquatic combat on page 478, but
more complex battles can require specialized rules.
MOUNTED COMBAT
The logistics of mounted combat take some extra work.
If you know one is coming up, make sure the fight takes
place in a location with plenty of space to move, since
you’ll likely be dealing with multiple larger creatures. For
a fight in which only one side has mounts, you might want
an environment with a few areas too small for mounts,
so the side on foot can get a tactical advantage there to
offset the other side’s greater mobility.
When the PCs are mounted, their enemies should focus
most of their attacks on the PCs, not their mounts. Having
foes target PCs’ mounts too often gets really annoying, so
have the enemies remember who the real threat is! When PCs
fight mounted enemies, try to keep the mount’s level fairly
close to the PCs, rather than putting a 13th-level enemy on
a 2nd-level war horse, use an 11th-level greater nightmare
or something similar. This will fit better thematically and
prevent the enemy from being dismounted too easily. If a
mount is knocked out, the rider might be able to dismount
without trouble if the mount was stationary, but if they were
in motion, you should probably have the rider attempt a
Reflex save. If they fail, the rider is thrown a short distance
and falls prone. Setting a simple expert DC of 20 often
works well for such checks.
Mounted combat on a grid is difficult for a running fight
with both sides racing at full speed. For something like
that, it can be better to no grid at all, though miniatures
can still help for relative positioning and distances for
ranged attacks. For such a race, consider using the chase
subsystem instead (page 156).
diFFerent tyPes oF mounts
The mount rules are for common cases: humanoids riding
quadrupedal animals. However, you might allow someone
to ride a beast or other type of creature by making a few
adjustments. For an intelligent mount (such as a pegasus or
unicorn), use the standard rules for mounted combat, but
instead of attempting a check to Command an Animal, the
VARIANT RULES ON THE GRID
These two variants can change up how distance and
movement work in your game.
UNIFORM DIAGONALS
If you like, your group can count all diagonals as 5 feet instead
of counting every other diagonal as 10 feet. This speeds up
play, but some people find it breaks their suspension of
disbelief. This is most noticeable when someone moves a
long distance along a diagonal all at once or when characters
start moving diagonally as much as possible to cover more
distance. Using this variant requires thinking of the game
map in more abstract terms, and less like a real physical
environment where the map is accurately reflecting the size
of the room or encounter area. You can choose whether you
measure radius-based areas of spells in the same way or
visualize them as circles or other round shapes. The latter
works best if you have templates to use.
HEX GRIDS
Some of the challenges of diagonal movement can be fixed
by using a hex grid instead of a square grid, or by using a
grid with offset squares, which works similarly. This allows
you to count movement the same in all directions. However,
it makes flanking a bit harder to pull off, requires you to
arrange standard Large and larger miniatures differently,
and causes challenges when drawing maps that consist
primarily of rectangular structures, since you’ll have a lot of
partially occupied hexes.
Gamemastery Guide
1414
