is in your possession, you gain a +4 item bonus when Crafting
armor, jewelry, metalworking, stonemasonry, snares, traps,
and weapons. If you are a dwarf, you gain greater darkvision
(Core Rulebook 465) while holding the axe. If you are not a
dwarf, you are stupefied 4 while holding the
axe, and if you are an orc, you are also drained
4 and enfeebled 4 while holding it.
Activate [three-actions] envision, Interact; Frequency
once per week; Effect The axe casts a
10th‑level summon elemental spell to
conjure an elite elemental avalanche
(Bestiary 6, 147). The spell is automatically
sustained, requiring no action on your part but
still allowing you to command the elemental on each of
your turns. You can Dismiss the Spell.
Destruction If an orc beheads a dwarven king with the Axe of
the Dwarven Lords, the axe rusts away to nothing.
DECK OF MANY THINGS
ITEM 22
RARE
ARTIFACT
MAGICAL
TRANSMUTATION
Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk —
These 22 cards of heavy vellum, usually stored in a box or a
pouch, bear images or glyphs depicting symbols of magical
power. Looking at a card without activating it shows the card face
but has no magical effect. Once the deck is face down, the cards
randomize themselves—if you look at the top card multiple
times, you may find it changes. Any card removed from the
deck goes missing after a few seconds, reappearing in the
deck. Advice on randomly selecting cards appears on page 108.
Activate [one-action] envision, Interact; Effect You declare how many
cards you will draw facedown from the deck, then draw your
first card. The card takes effect immediately. Any further cards
must be drawn within the next hour, and any card
you don’t voluntarily draw flits off the deck and
affects you anyway. You can never activate
the same deck of many things again.
Once a card is drawn, it produces its
effect immediately and then disappears
back into the deck, which immediately
shuffles itself. (The Dullard and
Jester are exceptions, as described
in their entries below.)
The effects of each card are
as follows.
• Balance Your alignment
changes to a radically
different one. If you fail to
adhere to that alignment, you lose a
level and all the benefits you gained at that
level. Your XP total doesn’t change when you lose a
level this way.
• Comet If you alone defeat the next low‑threat or harder
hostile enemy or enemies you encounter, you gain enough
XP to reach the next level. Otherwise, you gain no benefit.
• Donjon You’re imprisoned by a 10th‑level imprisonment
ritual. This uses the prison option, typically sequestering
you in a distant part of the world. You also lose all your
items. Cease drawing cards.
• Dullard Immediately reduce your Intelligence score by
1d4+1. You can then draw an additional card, and the
Dullard card then disappears forever.
• Euryale (curse) A medusa’s image curses you
with a permanent –1 status penalty to all
saving throws. This can be removed by only
a deity or the Fates card.
• The Fates The Fates respin the fabric of
reality to save you from any situation you
choose. This can reverse even a past event,
and you can make the decision instantly even
if the event would slay you. This intervention
saves only you, not anyone else affected by
the event. There’s no limit on how long you
can wait before using this effect.
• Flames A fiend becomes filled with anger, jealousy, envy,
or some other reason to despise you. Its hatred for you
doesn’t cease until either it or you is dead. It attacks you
or otherwise attempts to foil you within 1d20 days. The
GM determines the specifics of the fiend.
• Fool You lose 1d10×100 XP unless you choose to draw
two more cards.
• Gem Gain your choice of 25 pieces of jewelry worth 200
gp each or 50 gems worth 100 gp each.
• Jester You can either draw two more cards or gain
1d10×100 XP. The card then disappears forever.
• Key Gain a magic weapon of 12th level or higher. The GM
determines the item and what runes it has, if any.
• Knight A palace guard (page 206) arrives and swears
unfailing loyalty to you.
• Moon Roll 1d4 to determine how many wishes the card
grants you, which also affects the phase of the
moon depicted on the card (1: crescent moon;
2: half moon; 3: gibbous moon; 4: full moon).
These wishes each take one action to speak
and have the effect of a wish spell.
• Rogue One NPC ally becomes filled
with hatred and immediately turns
against you forever. The NPC
might keep this hatred secret until
an opportune moment.
• Ruin You lose all your non‑
magical possessions, including
any wealth and property.
• Skull You must immediately battle a lesser death
(Bestiary 197). If slain in the battle, you can never be
revived, except by a deity.
• Star Gain an ability boost you must use immediately on
one ability score of your choice.
• Sun Gain 1,000 XP and a beneficial permanent magic
item of 6th to 11th level, chosen by the GM.
• Talons All your magic items disappear permanently, except
for the deck and any artifact of higher level than the deck.
• Throne You gain a permanent +4 status bonus to
2
Tools
107
107
introduction
Gamemastery
Basics
Tools
Subsystems
Variant Rules
NPC Gallery
GLOSSARY
and INDEX
