Heightened (9th) The maximum level of the target increases
to 20. The cost is the target’s level (minimum 1) × 600 gp.
The target must have died within the past decade.
REST ETERNAL
RITUAL 4
UNCOMMON
NECROMANCY
Cast 1 day; Cost rare oils to anoint the body worth a total value
of the target’s level (minimum 1) × 25 gp; Secondary Casters 2
Primary Check Religion (expert); Secondary Checks
Occultism, Religion
Range 20 feet; Targets 1 dead creature
You call upon gods, spirits, and stranger beings to bar a
creature’s spirit from ever returning. A spirit that doesn’t wish
to be so constrained can attempt a Will save to resist this
ritual; on a critical success, it fools you into believing the ritual
succeeded. This ritual has no effect on a target who is undead
or whose soul is otherwise not in the afterlife.
Critical Success You sequester the subject’s spirit to the
afterlife. Attempts to communicate with the dead creature,
return it to life, turn it into an undead, or otherwise disturb
its afterlife fail unless the effect’s counteract level is at
least 2 higher than that of rest eternal or originates from an
artifact or a deity. Successfully returning the creature to life
ends the restrictions placed by rest eternal.
Success As critical success, but effects to interact with the
spirit fail unless the effect’s counteract level is higher than
that of rest eternal or originates from an artifact or a deity.
Failure The ritual has no effect.
Critical Failure The ritual fails, and the spirits you appealed to
are angered by your meddling. All casters become doomed
1 for 1 week.
SIMULACRUM
RITUAL 4
RARE
ILLUSION
Cast 1 day; Cost a piece of hair, drop of blood, or other part of
the creature to be duplicated, plus rare oils, minerals, and
pigments with a total value of 300 gp; Secondary Casters 3
Primary Check Arcana or Occultism (master, the check has the
secret trait); Secondary Checks Arcana, Nature, Occultism,
Religion, or Society (whichever is required to Recall Knowledge
about the creature being duplicated); Crafting; Deception
Targets 1 living creature
You create an illusory duplicate of the target creature by
animating ice or snow sculpted in its shape. The simulacrum is a
4th-level creature with no special abilities. If it needs to attempt
a roll or use a DC, use the moderate number for a monster
(Gamemastery Guide 57), except as noted below. It doesn’t
have any specific memories from the target, but it can use
information about the creature gained from any of the casters
to Impersonate the target. It looks exactly like the target and
has a Deception modifier to Impersonate that creature equal
to the modifier of the secondary spellcaster who rolled the
Deception check, with a +4 status bonus.
While it doesn’t have any of the original’s special abilities,
like a dragon’s breath weapon, the illusions that make up
the simulacrum allow it to appear to use those abilities; they
just never seem to have an effect. For instance, against a
simulacrum dragon’s breath weapon, all creatures in the area
seem to critically succeed at their saving throws and take no
damage. Creatures can attempt to disbelieve the illusion by
attempting a Perception check against the Deception DC of
the secondary spellcaster who rolled the Deception check.
Critical Success You bring the simulacrum to life. It has the minion
trait and is under your absolute control. You gain a direct
mental link with the simulacrum and can spend an action to
command the simulacrum via this link, even at a distance.
Success As a critical success, but there is no special link
between you and the simulacrum. You must spend an action
to command it verbally or by some other means.
Failure The ritual fails and has no effect.
Critical Failure The simulacrum awakens, but it isn’t your
minion and is hostile to all the casters. It does everything it
can to destroy them, but if it can’t immediately slay them,
the simulacrum tries to escape and plots their demise.
TELEPORTATION CIRCLE
RITUAL 7
UNCOMMON
CONJURATION
TELEPORTATION
Cast 1 day; Cost rare incense, precious metals, and purified
chalk worth 500 gp; Secondary Casters 2
Primary Check Arcana or Occultism (master); Secondary
Checks Crafting, Survival
Range 20 feet
Duration 1 day
You create a 10-foot-diameter circle on the ground, which acts
as a portal to a destination determined at the time of the ritual.
You designate the destination of the teleportation as part of the
ritual. This destination can’t be changed. The destination must
be a location within 1,000 miles and be on the same plane as
the teleportation circle. You must be able to identify the location
precisely both by its position relative to the location where you
create the teleportation circle and by the destination’s appearance
(or other identifying features). The destination must also be
a 10-foot-diameter circle that doesn’t overlap with any solid
structures, but it can be a place that is harmful or dangerous.
A secondary caster attempting a Survival check for this ritual
can be located at the exact site of the destination, instead of
with you at the point of origin. If the secondary succeeds at
their check at the destination and you roll a success, the ritual
is a critical success instead.
While the circle is active, any creature that moves to be fully
within the circle is instantly teleported to the destination. A
creature that is unwilling to be teleported can attempt a Will save
to resist the effect. If it remains in the circle, the creature must
attempt this save again at the end of each of its turns.
The teleportation circle normally goes only in one direction,
though you can double the Cost to make the teleportation
work in both directions.
Critical Success You create the teleportation circle, and it’s
extremely precise, regardless of the distance traveled.
Travelers arrive exactly at the designated point.
Success As a critical success, but the destination of the
teleportation circle is slightly inaccurate, and is off target
Advanced Player's Guide
244
244
