These rare backgrounds can give a player a significantly
different roleplaying experience by setting their character
up with a history or legacy beyond the norm. Whether
a character with the royalty background is heir to the
throne of the kingdom where your campaign takes place
or to a distant but powerful nation in the same world,
the character is situated in a special position within the
narrative. Your character’s background is an intrinsic part
of where they come from and not something they earn
during the game. Rare backgrounds should be chosen only
after a discussion between the GM and the other players
as to whether one would apply for a particular character
in your group’s game.
Backgrounds can also be unique, such that no other
character can have them if your character does. To create
unique backgrounds, you can adapt the rare backgrounds
in this section by including more specific details.
AMNESIAC
RARE
Your background is… well… honestly, you can’t remember! You
might have inklings deep within your mind, undercurrents of
unusual emotions or unexpected responses to certain people
or situations, but ultimately you don’t know who you once
were. You might be adventuring specifically to help discover
yourself. It’s up to you and the GM how to handle the truth of
your character’s backstory. You could leave it to the GM so it’s
a secret, work together with the GM, or even choose to leave
it undecided until later. In any case, you and your GM should
determine a few noteworthy details about your character or
their belongings to get the first clues to your past.
You gain three free ability boosts. You choose two, and
the GM chooses the third based on their first inklings of your
character’s possible history.
BLESSED
BACKGROUND
RARE
You have been blessed by a divinity. For an unknown reason,
and irrespective of your actual beliefs, a deity has granted
you a boon to use for good or ill. Your blessing grants wisdom
and insight to aid you in your struggles. You may or may not
even know the identity of the being who blessed you, and the
blessing might come with a cost you discover later on.
Choose two ability boosts. One must be to Wisdom or
Charisma, and one is a free ability boost.
You are trained in a Lore skill associated with the deity who
blessed you (such as Shelyn Lore) if you know their identity,
or else in a Lore skill of the GM’s choice if you don’t. Either you
can cast guidance as a divine innate spell at will, or you gain a
similar blessing determined by the GM.
CURSED
BACKGROUND
RARE
You are the victim of a personal or hereditary curse. Through
great effort and occult study, you have learned to fend off
the curse’s worst effects and, by extension, you can protect
yourself against other harmful magic. However, the curse still
hangs over you and sometimes manifests in dangerous ways.
Choose two ability boosts. One must be to Intelligence or
Charisma, and one is a free ability boost.
You are trained in Occultism and Curse Lore. You gain the
Warding Sign reaction. You and the GM should determine
the full effects of the curse, though you’ve staved most of
them off for now. The GM determines the curse’s lingering
manifestations on you, which usually include at least a
constant or very frequent thematic effect and occasional more
dangerous effects.
Warding Sign [reaction] (concentrate) Frequency once per minute;
Trigger You attempt a saving throw against a magical effect,
but you haven’t rolled yet; Effect You call on the power of
a personal, eldritch sign of protection, which flares brightly
before slowly fading. You gain a +2 circumstance bonus to
the triggering saving throw, or a +3 circumstance bonus if
the effect is a curse.
FERAL CHILD
BACKGROUND
RARE
You spent your youth in the wilderness, living close to
or perhaps raised by animals. You have a close, mystical
connection with these animals and gained certain abilities
from them, though this limited your well-roundedness in
mental pursuits.
Choose one ability boost. It must be Strength, Dexterity,
or Constitution.
You are trained in Nature and Survival. You gain low-light vision
(or darkvision if you already had low-light vision), imprecise
scent with a range of 30 feet, and the Forager skill feat.
FEYBOUND
BACKGROUND
RARE
You have spent time in the First World or another realm of
the fey and aren’t entirely the same person you were before.
Perhaps you made a purchase at the legendary Witchmarket
or partook deeply of fey food and wine. Whatever the case,
willingly or inadvertently, you made a bargain with the fey,
the benefits of which come at a price.
Choose two ability boosts. One must be to Dexterity or
Charisma, and one is a free ability boost.
You are trained in Fey Lore and gain the Fey’s Fortune free
action. You must follow some rule or limitation as part of your
pact with the fey. If you violate the rule, you lose Fey’s Fortune
RARE BACKGROUNDS
While most backgrounds are available to any character, some backgrounds are so unusual
that just having them makes a character rare and extraordinary.
Advanced Player's Guide
50
50
