INFLUENCE NATURE
FEAT 7
DOWNTIME
GENERAL
SKILL
Prerequisites master in Nature
With patience and time, you can make bird calls, leave game
trails, and ultimately influence the behavior of a certain type
of animals in the region to favor and even aid you in the days
to come. The GM determines the DC of any check required
and the amount of time your work requires (usually at least a
day or two of downtime). While you can’t directly control how
you’ve influenced nature, you can hope for certain effects,
such as easier hunts or birds falling silent whenever danger is
approaching. If you’re legendary in Nature, you can elicit these
same adjustments to animal behavior in the area by spending
only 10 minutes.
INOCULATION
FEAT 1
GENERAL
HEALING
SKILL
Prerequisites trained in Medicine
You have practice combating plague, and your patients are
less likely to succumb to the same disease again for a time.
When you successfully Treat a Disease on someone and they
fully recover from the disease, they gain a +2 circumstance
bonus to saving throws against that same disease for 1 week.
KEEN FOLLOWER
FEAT 3
GENERAL
Your keen observation of your allies has made you better at
following their lead. When using the Follow the Expert activity
in exploration mode, you gain a +3 circumstance bonus if the
ally you are following is an expert and a +4 circumstance
bonus if your ally is a master.
LEAD CLIMBER
FEAT 2
GENERAL
SKILL
Prerequisites expert in Athletics
When climbing, you can prepare routes for others to follow,
and you can pull your allies up to avoid disaster. When your
allies attempt to Climb a route you set using the Follow the
Expert exploration activity, if any of them critically fail their
checks to Climb, you can attempt an Athletics check against
the same DC. If you succeed, your ally fails instead of critically
failing. If you also critically fail, you both experience the
consequences of the critical failure.
LEGENDARY GUIDE
FEAT 15
GENERAL
SKILL
Prerequisites legendary in Survival
You know the wilderness so well that you can help your party
travel through it with ease. When you are setting the path
for your party through wilderness terrain, your party gains a
+10-foot circumstance bonus to its Speed for the purpose of
calculating the party’s travel speed, your party’s travel speed
doesn’t decrease in difficult terrain, and greater difficult terrain
halves your party’s travel speed instead of reducing it to a third.
Feats
4
207
207
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Archetypes
Feats
Spells
items
glossary
& Index
