RED HERRING
FEAT 2
INVESTIGATOR
You have a keen sense for avoiding spurious lines of inquiry.
When you Pursue a Lead, the GM tells you if the lead you chose
is inconsequential. For example, if you found a splatter of gray
mud on the wall, thought it was suspicious, and Pursued it as
a Lead, the GM would tell you if there was no greater mystery
related to it. When the GM tells you a lead is inconsequential,
you can decline to Pursue the Lead, keeping any leads you
were already pursuing. You still can’t use Pursue a Lead again
for 10 minutes, as normal.
SHARED STRATAGEM
FEAT 2
INVESTIGATOR
The plans you make include your allies as well as yourself.
When you hit a creature with an attack on which you
substituted your attack roll due to Devising a Stratagem,
designate one ally. The creature you hit is flat-footed to that
ally on the next attack the designated ally makes against that
creature before the start of your next turn.
SOLID LEAD
FEAT 2
INVESTIGATOR
Sometimes your case splinters into smaller mysteries, but you
never lose sight of the big picture. Once per day when you give
up on the subject of a lead due to using Pursue a Lead again,
you can designate the lead you stopped pursuing as your solid
lead for the day. Even though you stopped following the solid
lead, you can change back to your solid lead any number of
times by using a single action, which has the concentrate trait.
Doing so ends one of your current leads as normal.
During your next daily preparations, you can maintain your
solid lead or you can remove it; removing it allows you to
designate a new solid lead later that day.
4TH LEVEL
ALCHEMICAL DISCOVERIES
FEAT 4
INVESTIGATOR
Prerequisites alchemical sciences methodology
You’ve devoted extra time in the lab to improve your knowledge
of alchemy. You learn the formulas for two alchemical items
each time you level up instead of one; these must still be
elixirs or tools. The number of versatile vials you can create
each day increases by 1 if you’re an expert in Crafting, 2 if
you’re a master, or 3 if you’re legendary.
DETECTIVE’S READINESS
FEAT 4
INVESTIGATOR
When you’re on a case, you stay watchful and resolute to avoid
tricks your suspect might pull. You gain your circumstance
bonus from Pursue a Lead on saving throws (and their DCs, as
normal) against the subject of a lead, and you can use Clue In
to assist an ally’s saving throw against that subject.
Classes
2
6161
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Archetypes
Feats
Spells
items
glossary
& index
