Dual-Weapon Warrior
You’re able to effortlessly fight with multiple weapons
simultaneously, weaving your weapons together into a
storm of quick attacks. To you, continual offense is the
best form of defense, and you leave little room for your
foes to avoid your whirlwind of weapons.
Additional Feats: 6th Twin Parry (Core Rulebook 147);
12th Twin Riposte (Core Rulebook 151); 16th Improved
Twin Riposte (Core Rulebook 153), Two-Weapon Flurry
(Core Rulebook 153); 18th Twinned Defense (Core
Rulebook 153)
DUAL-WEAPON WARRIOR DEDICATION
FEAT 2
ARCHETYPE
DEDICATION
You’re exceptional in your use of two weapons. You gain the
Double Slice fighter feat (Core Rulebook 144). This serves as
Double Slice for the purpose of meeting prerequisites.
Special You can’t select another dedication feat until you
gain two other feats from the dual-weapon warrior archetype.
DUAL THROWER
FEAT 4
ARCHETYPE
Prerequisites Dual-Weapon Warrior Dedication
You know how to throw two weapons as easily as strike with
them. Whenever a dual-weapon warrior feat allows you to
make a melee Strike, you can instead make a ranged Strike
with a thrown weapon or a one-handed ranged weapon you are
wielding. Any effects from these feats that apply to one-handed
melee weapons or melee Strikes also apply to one-handed
ranged weapons and ranged Strikes.
DUAL-WEAPON RELOAD [one-action]
FEAT 4
ARCHETYPE
Prerequisites Dual-Weapon Warrior Dedication
Requirements You are wielding two one-handed weapons,
each in a different hand, one of which is a ranged weapon.
You carry your ammunition in a way that allows you to reload
while holding two weapons. You Interact to reload a one-handed
ranged weapon you’re holding. Unlike most Interact actions, you
don’t need a free hand to reload your ranged weapon in this way.
FLENSING SLICE [one-action]
FEAT 8
ARCHETYPE
Prerequisites Dual-Weapon Warrior Dedication
Requirements Your last action was a Double Slice, and both
attacks hit the target.
When you hit with both attacks with Double Slice, you flense
the target, making it bleed and creating a weak spot. The target
takes 1d8 persistent bleed damage per weapon damage die of
whichever of the weapons you used that has the most weapon
damage dice (maximum 4d8 for a major striking weapon). The
target becomes flat-footed, and its resistances to any
physical damage types are reduced by 5; these two
effects last until the beginning of your next turn.
DUAL-WEAPON BLITZ [two-actions]
FEAT 10
ARCHETYPE
Prerequisites Dual-Weapon Warrior Dedication
Requirements You are wielding two one-handed melee
weapons, each in a different hand.
You attack as you dash among foes. Stride up to your Speed. At
any point during this movement, you can Strike once with each
of the two required weapons. These Strikes can be against the
same or different targets, as you see fit.
DUAL ONSLAUGHT
FEAT 14
ARCHETYPE
Prerequisites Dual-Weapon Dedication
When you lash out with both weapons, you
leave no room for the target to escape your
attack. When you use Double Slice, if you miss with both
Strikes, choose one of the two weapons and apply the
effects of a hit with that weapon. You can’t choose
a weapon if your attack roll with that weapon was
a critical failure, meaning you still miss entirely if
both attack rolls were critical failures.
Advanced Player's Guide
170
170
