SKYBORN TENGU
Your bones may be especially light, you may be a rare
tengu with wings, or your connection to the spirits of
wind and sky might be stronger than most, slowing
your descent through the air. You take no damage from
falling, regardless of the distance you fall.
STORMTOSSED TENGU
Whether due to a blessing from Hei Feng or hatching
from your egg during a squall, you are resistant to
storms. You gain electricity resistance equal to half your
level (minimum 1). You automatically succeed at the flat
check to target a concealed creature if that creature is
concealed only by rain or fog.
TALONED TENGU
Your talons are every bit as sharp and strong as your
beak. You gain a talons unarmed attack that deals 1d4
slashing damage. Your talons are in the brawling group
and have the agile, finesse, unarmed, and versatile
piercing traits.
Ancestry Feats
At 1st level, you gain one ancestry feat, and you gain an
additional ancestry feat every 4 levels thereafter (at 5th,
9th, 13th, and 17th levels). As a tengu, you select from
among the following ancestry feats.
1ST LEVEL
SCAVENGER’S SEARCH
FEAT 1
TENGU
You’re always on the lookout for supplies and valuables. Each
time you use the Seek action to search for objects (including
secret doors and hazards), you can search for objects in your
choice of a 10-foot emanation around you or an adjacent
15-foot-by-15-foot area, rather than a single adjacent
10-foot-by-10-foot area.
SQUAWK! [reaction]
FEAT 1
TENGU
Trigger You critically fail a Deception, Diplomacy, or
Intimidation check against a creature that doesn’t have the
tengu trait.
You let out an awkward squawk, ruffle your feathers, or fake
some other birdlike tic to cover up a social misstep or faux
pas. You get a failure on the triggering check, rather than a
critical failure. All creatures that witnessed you Squawk are
temporarily immune for 24 hours.
STORM’S LASH
FEAT 1
TENGU
Wind and lightning have always been close friends to you.
You can cast the electric arc cantrip as a primal innate spell at
will. A cantrip is heightened to a spell level equal to half your
level rounded up.
TENGU LORE
FEAT 1
TENGU
You learned skills for surviving in the place where your
people were dispersed. You gain the trained proficiency rank
in Society and Survival. If you would automatically become
trained in one of those skills (from your background or class,
for example), you instead become trained in a skill of your
choice. You also become trained in Tengu Lore.
TENGU WEAPON FAMILIARITY
FEAT 1
TENGU
You’ve trained with a blade and other tengu weapons ever
since you hatched. You gain access to khakkaras (page 248).
Additionally, choose two weapons from the sword group.
You can choose from among all common martial swords, plus
the katana, temple sword, and wakizashi (page 248). For
the purpose of determining your proficiency, that weapon
is a simple weapon, and if the weapon isn’t common, you
gain access to it. If you are trained in all martial weapons,
you add common advanced swords to the swords you can
choose from.
You also gain access to all uncommon tengu weapons. For
the purpose of determining your proficiency, martial tengu
weapons are simple weapons, and advanced tengu weapons
are martial weapons.
5TH LEVEL
EAT FORTUNE [reaction]
FEAT 5
CONCENTRATE
DIVINATION
DIVINE
TENGU
Frequency once per day
Trigger A creature within 60 feet uses a fortune or misfortune
effect.
As someone tries to twist fate, you consume the interference.
The triggering effect is disrupted. If it’s a misfortune effect,
Eat Fortune gains the fortune trait; if it’s a fortune effect, Eat
Fortune gains the misfortune trait. This fortune or misfortune
applies to the same roll the triggering effect would have, so
you couldn’t negate a fortune effect with Eat Fortune and then
apply a misfortune effect to the same roll.
LONG-NOSED FORM [one-action]
FEAT 5
CONCENTRATE
POLYMORPH
PRIMAL
TENGU
TRANSMUTATION
You can transform into a specific, curious-looking human
form. This human form is the same age and body type as your
tengu form and has roughly analogous physical traits, such
as height, though your nose remains as long as your beak
and your complexion has red undertones, no matter the skin
color of your human form. Using Long-Nosed Form counts as
creating a disguise for the Impersonate use of Deception. Due
to your imperfect transformation, your transformation doesn’t
automatically defeat Perception DCs to determine whether
you are human, though you may be able to explain away or
hide your tengu traits. You lose your beak unarmed Strike in
your human form, as well as any other unarmed Strikes you
gained from a tengu heritage or ancestry feat. You can remain
Advanced Player's Guide
26
26
