Acrobat
You have trained your body to perform incredible,
seemingly superhuman feats of grace. You move in
ways that leave your opponents caught off guard
and fumbling for a response, turning every fight into
performance art.
ACROBAT DEDICATION
FEAT 2
ARCHETYPE
DEDICATION
Prerequisites trained in Acrobatics
You become an expert in Acrobatics. At 7th level, you
become a master in Acrobatics, and at 15th level, you become
legendary in Acrobatics. Whenever you critically succeed at
an Acrobatics check to Tumble Through an enemy’s space, you
don’t treat the enemy’s space as difficult terrain.
Special You can’t select another dedication feat until you
have gained two other feats from the acrobat archetype.
CONTORTIONIST
FEAT 4
ARCHETYPE
Prerequisites Acrobat Dedication
You can squeeze out of tight situations surprisingly quickly,
gaining an advantage against foes that try to pin you down.
You gain the Quick Squeeze skill feat, and if you’re a master
in Acrobatics, you can Squeeze at full Speed. Whenever
you successfully Escape using Acrobatics, the creature you
Escaped from is flat-footed against the next attack you make
against it before the end of your next turn.
DODGE AWAY [reaction]
FEAT 6
ARCHETYPE
Prerequisites Acrobat Dedication
Trigger You are the target of a melee attack.
Requirements You’re aware of the attack and aren’t flat-footed.
You use your acrobatic prowess to evade an attack, using
momentum to keep yourself moving, if you choose. You gain
a +1 circumstance bonus to AC against the triggering attack.
If the attack misses you, you can Step after the Strike. If
you’re a master in Acrobatics, you can move 10 feet on this
Step instead of 5 feet.
GRACEFUL LEAPER
FEAT 7
ARCHETYPE
SKILL
Prerequisites Acrobat Dedication, master in Acrobatics
Mass and muscle are meaningless when you leap; only grace
and balance matter. You can roll an Acrobatics check instead
of an Athletics check when making a High Jump or Long Jump.
TUMBLING STRIKE [one-action]
FEAT 8
ARCHETYPE
FLOURISH
MOVE
Prerequisites Acrobat Dedication
Requirements You are adjacent to an enemy.
Attempt an Acrobatics check against the Reflex DC of an
enemy adjacent to you.
Critical Success You move through the enemy’s space to an
unoccupied space on the other side of the enemy from your
starting position. This movement doesn’t trigger reactions.
You can’t move farther than your Speed, and you must end
your movement adjacent to the enemy whose space you
moved through. After moving, you make a melee Strike
against the enemy whose space you moved through, and
the enemy is flat-footed against that Strike.
Success As critical success, but the enemy isn’t flat-footed
against the Strike.
Failure You remain in your original space but can still Strike.
Critical Failure No effect.
TUMBLING OPPORTUNIST [free-action]
FEAT 10
ARCHETYPE
ATTACK
Prerequisites Acrobat Dedication
Frequency once per minute
Requirements Your most recent action was to Tumble Through
or Tumbling Strike, and you successfully moved through an
enemy’s space.
You use a burst of stamina to perform a breathtaking feat of
Acrobatics as you speed through a foe’s space, leaving your
foe lying flat on their back. You attempt to Trip the enemy
whose space you moved through. You can use Acrobatics
instead of Athletics for this check.
Archetypes
3
155
155
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Archetypes
Feats
Spells
items
glossary
& Index
