8TH LEVEL
BULLSEYE [one-action]
FEAT 8
ROGUE
You carefully take aim before making your attack in order to
avoid your foe’s concealment and cover. On your next Strike
with a thrown weapon before the end of your turn, you gain
a +1 circumstance bonus to your attack roll and ignore your
target’s concealed condition, as well as the target’s lesser cover
or standard cover; if the target had greater cover, they instead
have only standard cover against the Strike.
INSPIRED STRATAGEM [reaction]
FEAT 8
FORTUNE
LINGUISTIC
ROGUE
Trigger One of the required allies is about to attempt an attack
roll or skill check.
Requirements You spent 10 minutes during your daily
preparations reviewing stratagems for the day’s adventures
with up to four allies.
You quickly advise your ally, using your earlier planning to
make sure luck can’t throw a wrench in the cogs of your
schemes. The ally rolls the triggering check twice and
takes the better of the two results. That ally then becomes
temporarily immune to your Inspired Stratagem until your
next daily preparations.
LOANER SPELL
FEAT 8
ROGUE
Prerequisites trained in Arcana, Nature, Occultism, or Religion
During your daily preparations, you can gain the assistance
of an allied prepared spellcaster to prepare one spell for
the day. The spell can be up to 3rd level. Your ally must
be able to prepare and cast it, and the spell must have a
Targets entry or an area. Your ally loses a spell slot of the
corresponding spell level, and you gain the ability to cast
the prepared spell once that day. When you Cast the Spell,
use your class DC for any saving throws required by the
spell, and your class DC – 10 as a spell attack roll modifier.
PREDICTIVE PURCHASE
FEAT 8
ROGUE
You somehow manage to have just the thing for the
situation. You gain the Prescient Planner and Prescient
Consumable feats (page 208). When using Prescient
Planner, you can draw the item from your backpack (or a
similar container) as a 2-action activity, instead of taking 1
minute to do so.
RICOCHET STANCE [one-action]
FEAT 8
ROGUE
STANCE
You adopt a stance (page 150) to rebound your thrown
weapons toward you. While you are in this stance, any
thrown weapons you use as part of a ranged Strike to deal
bludgeoning or slashing damage immediately return to your
hand, enabling you to use them for additional Strikes. You
must be within the weapon’s listed range increment and have
a hand free to catch the weapon. If you make a ranged Strike
with a thrown weapon outside of its listed range increment,
it instead flies back toward you a number of feet equal to its
listed range increment and then falls to the ground.
TACTICAL ENTRY [free-action]
FEAT 8
ROGUE
Prerequisites master in Stealth
Requirements You rolled Stealth for initiative in this
encounter, and neither you nor any enemies have acted yet
in this encounter.
You Stride. This movement doesn’t trigger any reactions.
10TH LEVEL
ELDRITCH DEBILITATIONS
FEAT 10
ROGUE
Prerequisites eldritch trickster racket, Debilitating Strike
You know how to apply debilitations that are particularly
troublesome for spellcasters. Add the following debilitations to
the list you can choose from when you use Debilitating Strike.
• Debilitation The target is stupefied 1.
• Debilitation The target can’t Step.
METHODICAL DEBILITATIONS
FEAT 10
ROGUE
Prerequisites mastermind racket, Debilitating Strike
You strategically craft your debilitations to lessen or negate an
enemy’s tactical advantages. Add the following debilitations to
the list you can choose from when you use Debilitating Strike.
• Debilitation The target can’t flank other creatures, and it
can’t provide flanking for its allies.
• Debilitation The target doesn’t gain a circumstance bonus
to AC from Raising a Shield, lesser cover, or standard
cover; it gains only a +2 circumstance bonus to AC from
greater cover or Taking Cover.
12TH LEVEL
BLOODY DEBILITATION
FEAT 12
ROGUE
Prerequisites trained in Medicine, Debilitating Strike
Your attacks slice arteries and veins. Add the following
debilitation to the list you can choose from when you use
Debilitating Strike.
• Debilitation The target takes 3d6 persistent bleed damage.
PREPARATION [one-action]
FEAT 12
FLOURISH
ROGUE
You survey the battlefield, calculating the possibilities. You
gain one additional reaction, which you can use before the
beginning of your next turn for any rogue reaction.
RICOCHET FEINT
FEAT 12
ROGUE
Prerequisites Ricochet Stance
Advanced Player's Guide
136
136
