You command powerful magic, not through study or devotion to any ideal,
but as a vessel or agent for a mysterious, otherworldly patron that even you
don’t entirely understand. This entity might be a covert divinity, a powerful
fey, a manifestation of natural energies, an ancient spirit, or any other mighty supernatural
being—but its nature is likely as much a mystery to you as it is to anyone else. Through a
special familiar, your patron grants you versatile spells and powerful hexes to use as you see
fit, though you’re never certain if these gifts will end up serving your patron’s larger plan.
HIT POINTS
6 plus your Constitution modifier
You increase your maximum number of
HP by this number at 1st level and every
level thereafter.
KEY ABILITY
INTELLIGENCE
At 1st level, your class gives you
an ability boost to Intelligence.
DURING COMBAT ENCOUNTERS...
You cast spells to change the course of battle. You use magical hexes to hamper enemies
and aid allies, while leveraging more powerful spells to control the battlefield, heal, or
harm, aided by your extraordinary familiar, brewed potions, and magical items.
DURING SOCIAL ENCOUNTERS...
You provide knowledge on numerous topics, including a variety of magical matters,
and you might call upon your patron’s magic to charm or deceive others.
WHILE EXPLORING...
You remain alert for magical traps and treasures, employing a clever array of spells
to overcome obstacles that stand in your way. Your familiar might aid you through
its own considerable set of exceptional abilities.
IN DOWNTIME...
You brew potions, craft other magical items, or hunt for new spells for your familiar to
learn. You might try to learn more about your patron, their aims, or your own powers,
and you might seek out the company of other witches for collaboration or community.
YOU MIGHT...
• Strive to learn more about your patron or familiar, your patron’s goals, why they
chose to empower you, and how you fit into their plans.
• Seek out new sources of magic, like scrolls and spellbooks, to supplement the
spells your patron provides.
• View your familiar as a steadfast ally, a dear friend, or a necessary nuisance,
depending on its personality.
OTHERS PROBABLY...
• Wonder about the nature of your patron and the source of your magic, worrying
you’ll turn on them or that you unknowingly serve to a foul power3).
• Appreciate your ability to aid them with magic, whether you do so by helping
them directly or by hampering their adversaries.
• Take care not to offend you, fearful that you’ll place a malicious hex on them if
you’re angered.
INITIAL PROFICIENCIES
At 1st level, you gain the listed
proficiency ranks in the following
statistics. You are untrained in
anything not listed unless you
gain a better proficiency rank in
some other way.
PERCEPTION
Trained in Perception
SAVING THROWS
Trained in Fortitude
Trained in Reflex
Expert in Will
SKILLS
Trained in one skill determined
by your patron
Trained in a number of
additional skills equal to 3 plus
your Intelligence modifier
ATTACKS
Trained in simple weapons
Trained in unarmed attacks
DEFENSES
Untrained in all armor
Trained in unarmored defense
SPELLS
Trained in spell attack rolls of
your spellcasting tradition,
determined by your first
lesson
Trained in spell DCs of your
spellcasting tradition,
determined by your first
lesson
Classes
2
95
95
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Archetypes
Feats
Spells
items
glossary
& Index

WITCH
