In addition, increase the number of Focus Points in
your focus pool from 2 to 3. If you spend at least 2 Focus
Points before you again Refocus, you recover 2 Focus
Points when you Refocus instead of 1.
WEAPON EXPERTISE
11TH
You’ve dedicated yourself to learning the intricacies of
your weapons. Your proficiency ranks for simple weapons
and unarmed attacks increase to expert.
LIGHT ARMOR EXPERTISE
13TH
You’ve learned how to dodge while wearing light or
no armor. Your proficiency rank for light armor and
unarmored defense increases to expert.
LIGHTNING REFLEXES
13TH
Your reflexes are lightning fast. Your proficiency rank for
Reflex saves increases to expert.
WEAPON SPECIALIZATION
13TH
You’ve learned how to inflict greater injuries with the
weapons you know best. You deal 2 additional damage
with weapons and unarmed attacks in which you are an
expert. This damage increases to 3 if you’re a master and
4 if you’re legendary.
MASTER SPELLCASTER
15TH
You truly understand the deep and complex divine power
within your mystery. Your proficiency ranks for divine
spell attack rolls and spell DCs increase to master.
EXTREME CURSE
17TH
You have mastered a perilous balance between the
conflicting divine powers of your mystery, gaining the
power to change your fate, but straining both body and
soul. When you cast a revelation spell while affected by
your major curse, your curse intensifies to an extreme
effect instead of overwhelming you. All mysteries share
the same effects for their extreme curse.
When affected by your extreme curse, you become
doomed 2 (or increase your doomed condition by 2 if
you were already doomed). Once every 10 minutes,
when you fail an attack roll, skill or Perception check, or
saving throw, you can reroll it and use the second result.
The reroll has the fortune trait and doesn’t require you
to spend an action, meaning you can use the reroll even
if you can’t act. These effects are in addition to all the
effects of your major curse, and they can’t be removed by
any means until you Refocus to reduce your curse to its
minor effect.
If you cast a revelation spell while under the effects of
this extreme curse, you are overwhelmed by your curse,
and you remain doomed 2 even if you Refocus.
Additionally, if you spend at least 3 Focus Points before
you again Refocus, you recover 3 Focus Points when you
Refocus instead of 1.
GREATER RESOLVE
17TH
Your unbelievable training grants you mental resiliency.
Your proficiency rank for Will saves increases to legendary.
When you roll a success on a Will save, you get a critical
success instead. When you roll a critical failure on a Will
save, you get a failure instead. When you fail a Will save
against a damaging effect, you take half damage.
LEGENDARY SPELLCASTER
19TH
You can harness divine power at a level few others can
match. Your proficiency ranks for divine spell attack rolls
and spell DCs increase to legendary.
ORACULAR CLARITY
19TH
You now fully grasp the nature of the divine power
behind your mystery, allowing you to work magic akin to
miracles. Add two common 10th-level divine spells to your
repertoire. You gain a single 10th-level spell slot you can
use to cast one of those two spells using oracle spellcasting.
You don’t gain more 10th-level spells as you level up,
unlike other spell slots, and you can’t use 10th-level slots
with abilities that give you more spell slots or that let you
cast spells without expending spell slots. You can take the
Oracular Providence feat to gain a second slot.
Mysteries
Choose the divine mystery that fuels your mystical power.
Your mystery might represent a pantheistic devotion to all
the deities with power over the subject of your mystery,
veneration of a particular ideal, or a conduit to raw divine
energy. Whatever its origin and nature, your mystery
determines the revelation spells you can cast and the
oracular curse that overtakes your body when you do. You
learn skills related to that mystery, gain access to a cantrip,
and gain a special benefit drawn from the combined divine
knowledge and experience of your mystery.
READING A MYSTERY ENTRY
A mystery entry contains the following information,
followed by a description of that mystery’s curse.
Mystery Benefit The mystery benefit is a special ability (or
abilities) you gain from your mystery.
Trained Skill You become trained in the listed skill. A few
mysteries make you trained in more than one skill.
Granted Cantrip You automatically add this cantrip to your
spell repertoire, in addition to those you gain through
divine spellcasting.
Revelation Spells You automatically gain your mystery’s initial
revelation spell at 1st level and can gain more by selecting the
Advanced Revelation, Greater Revelation, and Diverse Mystery
oracle feats. These spells appear starting on page 229.
Related Domains These are the cleric domains associated
with your mystery. You select one initial domain spell from
one of these domains at 1st level, which you can cast as a
revelation spell with the cursebound trait. The domains and
their domain spells appear on page 441 of the Core Rulebook.
Advanced Player's Guide
72
72
