Type major; Level 18; Price 4,000 gp
The item bonus is +3. The bomb deals 4d4 piercing damage
and 6 piercing splash damage.
DREAD AMPOULE
ITEM 1+
ALCHEMICAL
BOMB
CONSUMABLE
EMOTION
FEAR
MENTAL
POISON
SPLASH
Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk L
Activate [one-action] Strike
This flask is filled with a murky purple gas that briefly
interferes with normal brain activity. A dread ampoule
deals the listed mental damage and mental splash damage.
On a hit, the target becomes frightened 1, or frightened 2
on a critical hit. Many types also grant an item bonus to
attack rolls.
Type lesser; Level 1; Price 3 gp
The bomb deals 1d6 mental damage and 1 mental splash damage.
Type moderate; Level 3; Price 10 gp
You gain a +1 item bonus to attack rolls. The bomb deals
2d6 mental damage and 2 mental splash damage.
Type greater; Level 11; Price 300 gp
You gain a +2 item bonus to attack rolls. The bomb deals
3d6 mental damage and 3 mental splash damage.
Type major; Level 17; Price 3,000 gp
You gain a +3 item bonus to attack rolls. The bomb deals
4d6 mental damage and 4 mental splash damage.
GHOST CHARGE
ITEM 1+
ALCHEMICAL
BOMB
CONSUMABLE
POSITIVE
SPLASH
Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk L
Activate [one-action] Strike
These spring-loaded metal canisters contain a
mixture of chemicals and salts that drain and
disintegrate nearby undead creatures. A ghost
charge deals the listed positive damage and splash
damage, though as usual for positive damage, this
damage harms only undead and creatures with negative
healing. Ghost charges are designed to explode even on
contact with a spiritual substance, making them ideal for
damaging incorporeal undead. A primary target that takes
damage from a ghost charge becomes enfeebled until the
start of your next turn. Many types grant an item bonus to
attack rolls.
Type lesser; Level 1; Price 3 gp
The bomb deals 1d8 positive damage and 1 positive splash
damage, and the target is enfeebled 1 until the start of your
next turn.
Type moderate; Level 3; Price 10 gp
You gain a +1 item bonus to attack rolls. The bomb deals 2d8
positive damage and 2 positive splash damage, and the target
is enfeebled 1 until the start of your next turn.
Type greater; Level 11; Price 250 gp
You gain a +2 item bonus to attack rolls. The bomb deals 3d8
positive damage and 3 positive splash damage, and the target
is enfeebled 2 until the start of your next turn.
Type major; Level 17; Price 2,500 gp
The bomb deals 4d8 positive damage and 4 positive splash
damage, and the target is enfeebled 2 until the start of your
next turn.
ALCHEMICAL ELIXIRS
The full rules for alchemical elixirs, including mutagens,
appear on page 546 of the Core Rulebook.
DRAKEHEART MUTAGEN
ITEM 1+
ALCHEMICAL
CONSUMABLE
ELIXIR
MUTAGEN
POLYMORPH
Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk L
Activate [one-action] Interact
Your skin grows tough scales like a drake, your eyesight
become sharp and your pupils slitted, and your limbs grow
wiry and quick, but your mind and reflexes become slow.
Benefit You gain the listed bonus to AC, a Dexterity cap of
+2 (as usual, use your lowest Dexterity cap if you have more
than one), and an item bonus to Perception checks. If you’re
wearing armor, you still calculate your proficiency bonus to
AC based on your proficiency in the armor you’re wearing,
even if the drakeheart mutagen has a higher item bonus.
You also gain the Final Surge action.
Final Surge [one-action] You Stride twice. The drakeheart
mutagen’s duration ends.
Drawback You take a –1 penalty to Will saves,
Reflex saves, and all skill checks to Recall Knowledge.
Type lesser; Level 1; Price 4 gp
The item bonus to AC is +4, the item bonus to Perception
is +1, and the duration is 1 minute or until you use
Final Surge, whichever comes first.
Type moderate; Level 3; Price 12 gp
The item bonus to AC is +5, the item bonus to
Perception is +2, and the duration is 10 minutes or
until you use Final Surge, whichever comes first.
Type greater; Level 11; Price 300 gp
The item bonus to AC is +6, the item bonus to Perception
is +3, and the duration is 1 hour or until you use Final Surge,
whichever comes first.
Type major; Level 17; Price 3,000 gp
The item bonus to AC is +7, the item bonus to Perception is
+4, and the duration is 1 hour or until you use Final Surge,
whichever comes first.
FOCUS CATHARTIC
ITEM 2+
ALCHEMICAL
CONSUMABLE
ELIXIR
HEALING
Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk L
Activate [one-action] Interact
Focus briefly calms your neurons, helping ease mental effects.
When you drink this elixir, the elixir attempts a counteract
check with the listed counteract modifier to remove the
confused or stupefied condition from a single source, using
the source of that condition to determine the counteract level
and DC.
Type lesser; Level 2; Price 5 gp
The serum has a +6 counteract modifier.
Type moderate; Level 4; Price 15 gp
The serum has a +8 counteract modifier.
Items
6
253
253
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Archetypes
Feats
Spells
items
glossary
& Index
