give away its possessions. The target must attempt a Will
save. If the target has no items on its person, the spell fails.
Critical Success The target is unaffected.
Success The target is stunned 1 as it wrestles with the urge.
Failure On its next turn, before it does anything else, the
target must present the nearest creature with an item in
its possession; the target chooses which item to give, and if
the only item it has is one that it's currently using to defend
itself, such as a weapon during a combat encounter, it can
choose to be stunned for 1 round instead of giving up the
item. This might require the target to Interact to retrieve an
item or move to reach the nearest creature, and handing the
item to the target always requires an Interact action.
Critical Failure As failure, except the duration is 4 rounds,
and the target must repeat the effects of failure on each
of its turns. At the end of each of its turns, the target can
attempt a new Will save to reduce the remaining duration
by 1 round, ending it entirely on a critical success.
CHILLING SPRAY
SPELL 1
COLD
EVOCATION
Traditions arcane, primal
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal
Area 15-foot cone
Saving Throw Reflex
A cone of icy shards bursts from your spread hands and coats
the targets in a layer of frost. You deal 2d4 cold damage to
creatures in the area; they must each attempt a Reflex save.
Critical Success The creature is unaffected.
Success The creature takes half damage.
Failure The creature takes full damage and takes a –5-foot
status penalty to its Speeds for 2 rounds.
Critical Failure The creature takes double damage and takes a
–10-foot status penalty to its Speeds for 2 rounds.
Heightened (+1) The damage increases by 2d4.
CHROMA LEACH
SPELL 4
NECROMANCY
Traditions occult
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal
Range touch; Targets 1 living creature
Saving Throw Fortitude
Your hand glows with impossible colors from beyond the stars,
and your touch saps both color and vitality from the living.
The target must attempt a Fortitude save; creatures with the
gnome trait take a –2 circumstance penalty to this save.
Critical Success The target is unaffected.
Success The target is enfeebled 2 for 1 round.
Failure The target is enfeebled 2 for 1 minute and drained
1. The target is also filled with listlessness and ennui. For
1 round, if the target tries to use a move action, it must
succeed at a Will save against your spell DC or the action is
lost; this effect has the mental and emotion traits.
Critical Failure As failure, but the creature is permanently
enfeebled 2 and drained 2 (although magic such as
restoration can reduce or remove these conditions).
COUNTLESS EYES
SPELL 4
DIVINATION
Traditions arcane, occult, primal
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal
Range touch; Targets 1 creature
Duration 1 minute
Eyes form across the touched creature’s body, allowing it to
see in all directions at once. The subject can’t be flanked for
the spell’s duration. In addition, when the subject Seeks, it can
Seek in a 30-foot burst centered on itself or up to four 15-foot
bursts within line of sight.
COZY CABIN
SPELL 3
CONJURATION
Traditions arcane, occult
Cast 1 minute (material, somatic, verbal)
Range 30 feet
Duration 12 hours
You shape a cabin 20 feet on each side and 10 feet high. This
cabin has the structure trait and the same restrictions as
magic items that create structures. The walls of the hut are
simple and wooden, with small, square glass windows, and it
has one wooden door. It doesn’t include its own lock, but it has
a fastener to which a lock can be applied.
The interior contains three cots, one chamber pot, and a
small fireplace holding a magical fire. The interior is lit with a
small magical light that you can light or extinguish at will using
a single action, which has the concentrate trait. The climate
inside the hut is comfortable and allows creatures inside it
to withstand most hostile weather conditions, but incredible
heat or cold, powerful storms, and winds of hurricane force or
greater destroy the hut. Other creatures can freely enter and
exit the hut without damaging it, but if you exit the hut, the
spell ends. You can Dismiss the spell.
CRASHING WAVE
SPELL 3
EVOCATION
WATER
Traditions arcane, primal
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal
Area 30-foot cone
Saving Throw basic Reflex
You summon a crashing wave that sweeps away from you. You
deal 6d6 bludgeoning damage to creatures in the area. The
water also extinguishes non-magical fires in the area.
Heightened (+1) The damage increases by 2d6.
CURSE OF LOST TIME
SPELL 3
CURSE
NEGATIVE
TRANSMUTATION
Traditions arcane, occult, primal
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal
Range touch; Targets 1 Large or smaller object, construct, or
living creature
Saving Throw Fortitude; Duration varies
You mimic the process of aging or erosion on the target.
The effect depends on whether the target is an object, a
construct, or a living creature. Artifacts and objects and
Spells
5
217
217
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Archetypes
Feats
Spells
items
glossary
& index
