to fellow members. You can use Occultism in place of
Diplomacy to Gather Information about such groups. If you
belong to a secret cult, lodge, sect, or similar organization, you
automatically recognize members of your group unless they
are specifically attempting to conceal their presence from you.
SEASONED
FEAT 1
GENERAL
SKILL
Prerequisites trained in Alcohol Lore, Cooking Lore, or Crafting
You’ve mastered the preparation of many types of food and
drink. You gain a +1 circumstance bonus to checks to Craft
food and drink, including potions. If you are a master in one of
the prerequisite skills, this bonus increases to +2.
SHADOW MARK
FEAT 2
GENERAL
SKILL
Prerequisites expert in Stealth
You have learned special tricks that help you follow individuals
without them noticing you. When you attempt a Stealth check
to Avoid Notice while following a specific target, the target
takes a –2 circumstance penalty to their Perception DC. If you
have master proficiency in Stealth, the penalty is –3 or –4 if
you’re legendary. If you start an encounter with the target
while shadowing them, the target takes this penalty to their
initiative roll and to their Perception DC to determine if they
notice you, as normal for Sneak.
SKITTER
FEAT 3
GENERAL
Prerequisites Dexterity 16, Fleet
You can scoot swiftly across the ground. You can Crawl up to
half your Speed.
SUPERTASTER
FEAT 7
GENERAL
Prerequisites master in Perception
You have refined your palate and have a discerning sense of
taste that can detect abnormalities in the flavor and texture of
food and beverages. When eating food or drinking a beverage,
you automatically attempt to identify the ingredients, which
might alert you to the presence of alterations or additives, such
as poisons. The GM rolls a secret Perception check using the
poison’s level to determine the DC; on a success, you learn that
the food or drink was poisoned, but not the specific poison used.
If you lick or taste something while Investigating or
attempting to Recall Knowledge to identify something, if the
taste would provide relevant additional information (at the GM’s
discretion), you gain a +2 circumstance bonus to your check.
TERRIFYING RESISTANCE
FEAT 2
GENERAL
SKILL
Prerequisites expert in Intimidation
The spells of those you have Demoralized are less effective on
you. If you succeed in Demoralizing a creature, for the next
24 hours you gain a +1 circumstance bonus to saving throws
against that creature’s spells.
THOROUGH SEARCH
FEAT 3
GENERAL
Prerequisites expert in Perception
You take your time searching to ensure you find everything.
When Searching, you can take twice as long to search.
Normally this means you Search at up to one quarter of
your Speed, to a maximum of 150 feet per minute to check
everything, or 75 feet per minute to check everything before
you walk into it. If you do, you gain a +2 circumstance bonus
to your Perception checks to Seek.
TRUE PERCEPTION
FEAT 19
GENERAL
REVELATION
Prerequisites legendary in Perception
Your perceptive abilities and ability to process sensory
information are so far beyond the pale that you notice minute
discrepancies in all sorts of illusions and transmutations. You
are constantly under the effects of a 6th-level true seeing
spell, using your Perception modifier for the counteract check.
UNDERGROUND NETWORK
FEAT 2
UNCOMMON
GENERAL
SKILL
Prerequisites expert in Society, Streetwise
You’re connected to groups that know what’s going on in the
streets, and you can get information out of them quickly.
When you use Society to Gather Information in an area
where you have a network (typically a settlement where
you’ve spent at least a week or spent a day of downtime to
build a network faster), you can contact a member of these
groups to get information directly from them. This usually
takes about an hour, and it doesn’t draw as much attention
as Gathering Information in public might. The check and
information gained otherwise follow the normal rules for
Gather Information.
In addition, if you have successfully consulted the
underground network, you get a +1 circumstance bonus to the
next check to Recall Knowledge you attempt about the subject
you were Gathering Information on, or a +2 circumstance
bonus if you’re using Underworld Lore for the check. The GM
might change the Lore skill related to the network depending
on your location or the specifics of the network you’re
tapping into.
WATER SPRINT
FEAT 7
GENERAL
SKILL
Prerequisites master in Athletics
Experience and training have taught you that water has just
enough surface tension for a master sprinter to traverse the
surface. When you Stride in a straight line, if you move at
least half your Speed over ground, you can move any amount
of the remaining distance across a level body of water. If you
don’t end your Stride on solid ground, you fall into the water.
If you’re legendary in Athletics, as long as you start on solid
ground, any part of your Stride can cross the water’s surface,
even if you aren’t moving a straight line, though you still fall
into the water if you don’t end your movement on solid ground.
Feats
4
209
209
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Archetypes
Feats
Spells
items
glossary
& Index
