attempt a roll against a maze spell, you get a result one degree of success better than
you rolled. You don’t take a penalty to Sense Direction when you lack a compass.
5TH LEVEL
LAB RAT
FEAT 5
RATFOLK
You’ve spent more than your share of time in an alchemy lab. You might have been an
alchemist yourself, an assistant, or perhaps even a test subject. Either way, you have
been exposed to a wide variety of alchemical poisons and elixirs, leaving you with
increased tolerance of their effects. You have a +1 circumstance bonus to saves against
poison and harmful effects from elixirs. If you roll a success on your saving throw
against an elixir or poison, you get a critical success instead.
QUICK STOW [free-action]
FEAT 5
RATFOLK
Prerequisites Cheek Pouches
Frequency once per round
You are adept at quickly moving items into your cheek pouches. You Interact to
store one held item in your cheek pouches (provided it fits).
RAT MAGIC
FEAT 5
There always seems to be a little rat around to carry messages for you. You can
cast animal messenger once per day as a primal innate spell. When you do, the
animal that responds is always a rat. If there are no rats within
range, the spell is lost.
9TH LEVEL
BIG MOUTH
FEAT 9
RATFOLK
Prerequisites Cheek Pouches
Your cheek pouches are especially stretchy. Instead of storing up to
four items of Light Bulk in your cheek pouches, you can store up to 1
Bulk worth of items. The maximum size of a given item is unchanged.
OVERCROWD
FEAT 9
RATFOLK
Your physiology is slight, and you can pack into small spaces with others of
similar stature. As long as you are Small, you can end your movement in
the same square as a Small ally. Only two creatures total can share the
same space when using this ability or a similar one.
RAT FORM [one-action]
FEAT 9
CONCENTRATE POLYMORPH PRIMAL
RATFOLK
TRANSMUTATION
You can transform into an innocuous-looking rat to scout an
area or slip through tight spaces. You gain the effects of a 1st-
level pest form spell, except that you must assume the battle
form of a Tiny rat.
13TH LEVEL
WARREN DIGGER
FEAT 13
RATFOLK
You’ve learned to put your sturdy claws to work digging
through the earth. You gain a burrow Speed of 15 feet.
RATFOLK ADVENTURERS
Ratfolk might take up the adventuring
life to explore and travel, to defend
their family or community, or for any
number of other reasons.
Their natural wit and nimble fingers
make ratfolk excellent alchemists and
rogues, while some specialize in ranged
weapons as fighters or rangers.
Typical ratfolk backgrounds include
animal whisperer, artisan, merchant,
medic, nomad, scout, and tinker from
the Core Rulebook, plus bandit, barber,
scavenger, and teacher from this book.
Ancestries & Backgrounds
1
23
23
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Archetypes
Feats
Spells
items
glossary
& index
