CHEMIST
With carefully formulated chemical compounds, you
find chemical clues at crime scenes and boost your
investigative acumen with mutagens and other elixirs.
ABILITY SCORES
Prioritize Intelligence for your alchemy and deductive
reasoning. Dexterity helps you stay out of harm’s way,
while Constitution keeps you healthy.
SKILLS
Acrobatics, Arcana, Crafting, Deception, Diplomacy,
Nature, Society, Stealth, Thievery
METHODOLOGY
Alchemical sciences
STARTING FEAT
Known Weaknesses
HIGHER-LEVEL FEATS
Alchemical Discoveries (4th), Predictive Purchase (6th),
Implausible Purchase (16th)
SAMPLE INVESTIGATOR
Trigger A foe takes a hostile action against you in combat.
Sometimes something intrudes upon your case unexpectedly,
such as an ambush sent to bring your investigation to a
close. You’ve learned how to compartmentalize your main
lead and pursue a new one for your current predicament.
You Pursue a Lead against the triggering foe, setting aside
but not ending one of your currently active leads, if you
have two leads. At the end of the combat encounter, you
stop Pursuing the Lead against the triggering foe and return
to the original lead, if you have one.
12TH LEVEL
FORESEE DANGER [reaction]
FEAT 12
CONCENTRATE
INVESTIGATOR
Trigger A creature targets you with an attack and you can see
the attacker.
You perceive every possible way your foe’s attack could land
and attempt to avoid them all. The triggering attack roll targets
your Perception DC instead of your AC. Though this allows you
to avoid taking penalties to your AC, it doesn’t remove any
conditions or other effects causing such penalties. For example,
an enemy with sneak attack would still deal extra damage to
you for being flat-footed, even though you wouldn’t take the –2
circumstance penalty when defending against the attack.
REASON RAPIDLY [one-action]
FEAT 12
INVESTIGATOR
Your mind works through clues at an unbelievable speed. You
instantly use up to five Recall Knowledge actions. If you have
any special abilities or free actions that would normally be
triggered when you Recall Knowledge, you can’t use them for
these actions.
14TH LEVEL
PLOT THE FUTURE
FEAT 14
UNCOMMON
CONCENTRATE
INVESTIGATOR
PREDICTION
You spend 10 minutes in contemplation to uncannily predict
how events will play out. Choose a particular goal or activity
you plan to engage in within 1 week, or an event you expect
might happen within 1 week. You analyze whether it’s likely
to come to pass, learning whether it’s highly likely, somewhat
likely, somewhat unlikely, or highly unlikely. You also gain a
piece of advice suggesting a course of action you or your allies
could take that might make the chosen event more or less
likely, whichever you prefer. The GM determines the likeliness
of the event and the piece of advice you learn.
SENSE THE UNSEEN [reaction]
FEAT 14
INVESTIGATOR
Trigger You fail a check to Seek.
When you look for foes, you notice the slightest of cues. Even
though you failed at the triggering check, you automatically
sense any undetected creatures in the area where you’re
Seeking, making them merely hidden to you.
Advanced Player's Guide
64
64
