You can Dismiss the spell. The spell also ends if you die
or enter an extradimensional space. When the spell ends, the
target reappears in the nearest unoccupied space (outside of
any extradimensional space you may have entered).
PHANTASMAL TREASURE
SPELL 2
EMOTION
ILLUSION
MENTAL
Traditions arcane, occult
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal
Range 60 feet; Targets 1 living creature
Saving Throw Will; Duration varies
A phantasmal image of the most precious thing imaginable
to the target appears in a location of your choice within the
spell’s range. Only the spell’s target can see the treasure,
though you can see the vague shape of the treasure—be it a
pile of items, a deific avatar, or a cherished loved one or hero.
The target’s response to the treasure is based on the outcome
of the target’s Will save.
Critical Success The target is unaffected.
Success The target becomes fascinated with the treasure, and
the duration is until the end of its turn. The target can also try
to disbelieve the illusion if it touches the treasure, Seeks to
examine it, or speaks to it if the illusion appears to be a person
or the like. If the target disbelieves the illusion, the spell ends.
Failure As success, but the duration is 1 minute.
Critical Failure As success, but the duration is 1 minute. The
target finds the treasure so appealing that until the spell
ends, it must spend each action focused on it. This can
include moving toward the treasure if the target isn’t next
to it, and Interacting with the treasure if the target is next
to it. (If the illusion appears to be a person or the like, the
target can also Interact to converse with it.)
PUMMELING RUBBLE
SPELL 1
EARTH
EVOCATION
Traditions arcane, primal
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal
Area 15-foot cone
Saving Throw Reflex
A spray of heavy rocks flies through the air in front of you. The
rubble deals 2d4 bludgeoning damage to each creature in the
area. Each creature must attempt a Reflex save.
Critical Success The creature is unaffected.
Success The creature takes half damage.
Failure The creature takes full damage and is pushed 5 feet
away from you.
Critical Failure The creature takes double damage and is
pushed 10 feet away from you.
Heightened (+1) Increase the damage by 2d4.
QUENCH
SPELL 2
ABJURATION
WATER
Traditions primal
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal
Range 120 feet; Area 20-foot burst
Duration sustained
You cause the air in the area to become supersaturated
with water vapor. Non-magical fires within the area are
automatically extinguished. Fire creatures within the area
take 4d8 damage (basic Fortitude save). Choose one magical
fire, fire spell, or fire item in the area and attempt to counteract
it. If you succeed against an item, the item loses its fire
properties for 10 minutes (for instance, a +1 flaming longsword
would become a +1 longsword). If the target is an artifact or
similarly powerful item, you automatically fail to counteract it.
When you Sustain this Spell, you can move the area of
vapor anywhere within range, but the only effect when you
do so is to automatically extinguish non-magical fires.
If you have the Counterspell reaction, you can use quench
to counter any spell with the fire trait instead of needing to
have the triggering fire spell prepared or in your repertoire.
Heightened (+1) Increase the damage to fire creatures by 2d8.
REAPER’S LANTERN
SPELL 2
DEATH
LIGHT
NECROMANCY
Traditions divine, occult, primal
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal
Area 5-foot emanation
Saving Throw Fortitude; Duration 1 minute
You call forth a ghostly lantern that guides the living toward
death and the undead toward true death. It sheds bright light
in the spell’s area, and dim light to twice that area. Though the
lantern is insubstantial, you must keep a hand free to hold
it or the spell ends (though using the hand for somatic spell
components doesn’t end the spell). Living creatures and undead
in the area when you Cast the Spell, or that enter the area later,
must attempt Fortitude saves. Living creatures that fail their
Fortitude saves gain only half the normal benefit from healing
effects while within the area. Undead targets that fail their
Fortitude saves become enfeebled 1 while within the area. Once
a creature attempts a save against reaper’s lantern, it uses the
same outcome if it leaves the area and enters it again.
Once per turn, starting on the turn after you cast reaper’s
lantern, you can use a single action, which has the concentrate
trait, to increase the emanation’s radius by 5 feet. When
you do so, you force creatures in the area that haven’t yet
attempted a save against reaper’s lantern to attempt one.
RUSTING GRASP
SPELL 4
TRANSMUTATION
Tradition primal
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal
Range touch; Targets 1 metal creature, 1 non-magical metal
hazard, or 1 non-magical metal item of up to 1 Bulk
You cause the target to rapidly rust. This magical rust can
affect nonferrous materials, but the target must be all or
mostly metal. Skymetals such as adamantine and orichalcum
are immune to this rust, and the GM might determine other
precious materials are similarly resilient. Ultimately, the GM
decides if an object or creature can be targeted with this spell.
All damage from this spell ignores Hardness. If the spell
causes persistent damage from rust, a creature can attempt
Spells
5
223
223
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Archetypes
Feats
Spells
items
glossary
& index
