all primary and secondary checks you attempt as part of
casting a ritual.
6TH LEVEL
ASSURED KNOWLEDGE
FEAT 6
BARD
Prerequisites enigma muse
You can procure information with confidence. Whenever you
Recall Knowledge using any skill (including Bardic Lore), you
can forgo rolling your check to instead receive a result of
10 + your proficiency bonus (don’t apply any other bonuses,
penalties, or modifiers). As long as you are an expert in a skill,
you meet the prerequisites for the Automatic Knowledge
skill feat in that skill, even if you don’t have Assurance in
that skill.
DEFENSIVE COORDINATION [one-action]
FEAT 6
AUDITORY
BARD
CONCENTRATE
METAMAGIC
Prerequisites warrior muse, Inspire Defense
Like the storied heroes who persist in the face of
overwhelming odds, you and your allies will hold the line.
If your next action is to cast the inspire defense composition
cantrip, you can Raise a Shield, and one ally who gains a
status bonus from the spell can immediately use a reaction
to Raise a Shield.
EDUCATE ALLIES [reaction]
FEAT 6
ABJURATION
BARD
CONCENTRATE
Prerequisites Well-Versed
Trigger An ally benefiting from one of your composition
spells is subject to an effect with the auditory, illusion,
linguistic, sonic, or visual trait.
You tweak the properties of your composition spell to
convey a bit of your defensive knowledge. All allies affected
by your composition spell gain your +1 circumstance bonus
from Well-Versed until the start of your next turn. Teaching
your allies also bolsters your own skills; your personal
circumstance bonus from Well-Versed also increases to +2
until the start of your next turn.
SONG OF MARCHING
FEAT 6
BARD
You learn the song of marching composition cantrip (page
228), which enables you and your allies to cross vast
distances without strain.
8TH LEVEL
ACCOMPANY [reaction]
FEAT 8
BARD
CONCENTRATE
MANIPULATE
Trigger An ally within 30 feet Casts a Spell.
You use your performances to supplement an ally’s
spellcasting, providing magical energy for their spells.
Attempt a Performance check, using a very high DC for the
ally’s level (Core Rulebook 503–504), and either spend a
Focus Point (if the triggering spell is a focus spell) or expend
a spell slot at least 1 level higher than the triggering spell.
If you succeed at the Performance check, your ally’s spell
doesn’t cost the Focus Point or spell slot.
CALL AND RESPONSE [one-action]
FEAT 8
AUDITORY
BARD
CONCENTRATE
METAMAGIC
Your composition takes the form of a call-and-response
chant, which lets your allies continue the effect without
you. If your next action is to cast a composition cantrip with
a duration of 1 round, it becomes a call. While the spell is
active, one ally affected by the spell can respond to your
call as a single action that has the auditory and concentrate
traits to extend the spell’s duration by 1 round. Only one
ally can respond to a given call, and responding to the ally’s
response has no additional effect.
COURAGEOUS OPPORTUNITY [reaction]
FEAT 8
AUDITORY
BARD
CONCENTRATE
Prerequisites warrior muse
Trigger A creature within your reach uses an auditory effect,
manipulate action, or move action; makes a ranged attack;
or leaves a square during its move action.
Requirements You are affected by inspire courage.
You bellow a ferocious call to arms, inspiring yourself to
lash out at a foe. Make a melee Strike against the triggering
creature. If the attack is a critical hit and the trigger was a
manipulate action, the action is disrupted.
SOULSIGHT
FEAT 8
BARD
Your muse has opened your senses to the world beyond. You
gain spiritsense as an imprecise sense with a range of 60
feet. Spiritsense enables you to sense the spirits of creatures,
including living creatures, most non-mindless undead, and
haunts within the listed range. As with your hearing and
other imprecise senses, you still need to Seek to locate
an undetected creature. As spiritsense detects spiritual
essence, not physical bodies, it can detect spirits projected
by spells such as project image or possessing otherwise
soulless objects. It can’t detect soulless bodies, constructs,
or objects, and like most senses, it doesn’t penetrate through
solid objects.
10TH LEVEL
ANNOTATE COMPOSITION
FEAT 10
BARD
EXPLORATION
LINGUISTIC
By putting composition to paper, you can create a source of
stirring words or song that others can read and understand.
You spend 10 minutes and 1 Focus Point to transpose a
composition spell on a special scroll that you or another
creature can later activate. This composition spell must take a
single action to cast. If the chosen composition spell requires
a Performance check as part of the casting, the GM rolls this
check as a secret check when you annotate your score. If you
Classes
2
113
113
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Archetypes
Feats
Spells
items
glossary
& index
