ATTACK OF OPPORTUNITY [reaction]
FEAT 6
SWASHBUCKLER
Trigger A creature within your reach uses a manipulate action
or a move action, makes a ranged attack, or leaves a square
during a move action it’s using.
You swat a foe that leaves an opening. Make a melee Strike
against the triggering creature. If your attack is a critical hit and
the trigger was a manipulate action, you disrupt that action.
This Strike doesn’t count toward your multiple attack penalty,
and your multiple attack penalty doesn’t apply to this Strike.
COMBINATION FINISHER
FEAT 6
SWASHBUCKLER
You combine a series of attacks with a powerful finishing blow.
Your finishers’ Strikes have a lower multiple attack penalty: –4
(or –3 with an agile weapon) if it’s the second attack on your turn,
or –8 (or –6 with an agile weapon) if it’s the third or subsequent
attack on your turn, instead of –5 and –10, respectively.
PRECISE FINISHER
FEAT 6
SWASHBUCKLER
Prerequisites Confident Finisher
Even when your foe avoids your Confident Finisher, you can
still hit a vital spot. On a failure with Confident Finisher, you
apply your full precise strike damage instead of half.
VEXING TUMBLE [one-action]
FEAT 6
SWASHBUCKLER
You tumble around your foes, expertly avoiding their
reactions. Stride up to half your Speed and roll an Acrobatics
check. Compare the result to the Reflex DC of each foe
whose reach you began in or enter during the movement,
in sequence.
Critical Success This movement doesn’t trigger reactions from
the foe, the foe is flat-footed to you until the end of your turn,
and you gain panache.
Success This movement doesn’t trigger reactions from the foe,
and you gain panache.
Critical Failure Your movement immediately stops when you
enter the creature’s reach; if you began in the creature’s
reach, you don’t move.
8TH LEVEL
BLEEDING FINISHER [one-action]
FEAT 8
FINISHER
SWASHBUCKLER
Your blow inflicts profuse bleeding. Make a slashing or
piercing Strike with a weapon or unarmed attack that allows
you to add your precise strike damage. If you hit, the target
also takes persistent bleed damage equal to your precise
strike finisher damage.
DUAL FINISHER [one-action]
FEAT 8
FINISHER
SWASHBUCKLER
Requirements You wield two melee weapons, one in each hand.
You split your attacks. Make two melee Strikes, one with each
required weapon, each against a different foe. If the second
Strike is made with a non-agile weapon, it takes a –2 penalty.
Increase your multiple attack penalty only after attempting
both Strikes.
NIMBLE ROLL
FEAT 8
SWASHBUCKLER
Prerequisites Nimble Dodge
You can use Nimble Dodge before attempting a Reflex save,
in addition to its original trigger. If you do, the circumstance
bonus applies to your Reflex save against the triggering effect.
When you use Nimble Dodge and the triggering attack
fails or critically fails, or when you succeed or critically
succeed at the saving throw, you can also Stride up to 10
feet as part of the reaction. If you do, the reaction gains
the move trait. You can use Nimble Roll while Flying or
Swimming instead of Striding if you have the corresponding
movement type.
STUNNING FINISHER [one-action]
FEAT 8
FINISHER
SWASHBUCKLER
You attempt a dizzying blow. Make a melee Strike. If you
hit, your foe must attempt a Fortitude save against your
class DC with the following results; the save has the
incapacitation trait.
Critical Success The target is unaffected.
Success The target can’t use reactions until its next turn.
Failure The target is stunned 1.
Critical Failure The target is stunned 3.
VIVACIOUS BRAVADO [one-action]
FEAT 8
SWASHBUCKLER
Requirements You gained panache this turn.
Your ego swells, granting you a temporary reprieve from
your pain. You gain temporary Hit Points equal to your level
plus your Charisma modifier that last until the start of your
next turn.
10TH LEVEL
BUCKLER DANCE [one-action]
FEAT 10
STANCE
SWASHBUCKLER
Requirements You are wielding a buckler.
You spin your buckler defensively toward every attack. While
you are in this stance, you constantly have your buckler
raised as if you’d used Raise a Shield, as long as you meet that
action’s requirements.
DERRING-DO
FEAT 10
FORTUNE
SWASHBUCKLER
When you compound panache with even more derring-do,
it somehow tends to work out. When you already have
panache, you can roll twice and use the higher result on
checks to which the circumstance bonus for having panache
applies (Tumble Through and any skill actions listed in your
swashbuckler’s style).
Classes
2
9191
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Archetypes
Feats
Spells
items
glossary
& index
