Type greater; Level 12; Price 325 gp
The serum has a +19 counteract modifier.
Type major; Level 18; Price 3,250 gp
The serum has a +28 counteract modifier.
OLFACTORY OBFUSCATOR
ITEM 3+
ALCHEMICAL
CONSUMABLE
ELIXIR
Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk L
Activate [one-action] Interact
This frothing fluid causes the drinker’s body to exude trace odor-
absorbing oils. For the listed duration after drinking this elixir,
your scent is nearly unnoticeable. Creatures with imprecise
scent don’t detect you with that sense unless they Seek for
you, and you are concealed from creatures that perceive you
with precise scent. You gain a +4 item bonus against attempts
to Seek you by creatures using only scent-based senses; if they
use any other senses as well, the bonus doesn’t apply.
Type olfactory obfuscator; Level 3; Price 9 gp
The duration is 10 minutes.
Type greater olfactory obfuscator; Level 10; Price 225 gp
The duration is 8 hours.
SINEW-SHOCK SERUM
ITEM 2+
ALCHEMICAL
CONSUMABLE
ELIXIR
HEALING
Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk L
Activate [one-action] Interact
This serum jolts the body to help shake off physical debilitations.
When you drink this elixir, it attempts a counteract check
with the listed counteract modifier to remove the clumsy or
enfeebled condition from a single source, using the source of
that condition to determine the counteract level and DC.
Type lesser; Level 2; Price 5 gp
The serum has a +6 modifier for the roll.
Type moderate; Level 4; Price 15 gp
The serum has a +8 modifier for the roll.
Type greater; Level 12; Price 325 gp
The serum has a +19 modifier for the roll.
Type major; Level 18; Price 3,250 gp
The serum has a +28 modifier for the roll.
ALCHEMICAL POISONS
The full rules for alchemical poisons appear on page 550
of the Core Rulebook.
CERULEAN SCOURGE
ITEM 16
ALCHEMICAL
CONSUMABLE
INJURY
POISON
Price 1,450 gp
Usage held in 2 hands; Bulk L
Activate [two-actions] Interact
Made from a carefully distilled blend of serpentine hemotoxins,
the fast-acting cerulean scourge is infamous for transforming
the blood vessels near the original wound, which glow with a
bright blue light before painfully bursting.
Saving Throw DC 36 Fortitude; Maximum Duration 6 rounds;
Stage 1 9d6 poison damage (1 round); Stage 2 12d6 poison
damage (1 round); Stage 3 15d6 poison damage (1 round)
LEADENLEG
ITEM 4
ALCHEMICAL
CONSUMABLE
INJURY
POISON
Price 15 gp
Usage held in 2 hands; Bulk L
Activate [two-actions] Interact
Once injected, this synthetic toxin sinks into the extremities,
numbing them nearly to paralysis.
Saving Throw DC 20 Fortitude; Maximum Duration 6
rounds; Stage 1 1d10 poison damage and –5-foot status
penalty to all Speeds (1 round); Stage 2 2d6 poison damage
and –10-foot status penalty to all Speeds (1 round); Stage
3 2d6 poison damage and –20-foot status penalty to all
Speeds (1 round)
ALCHEMICAL TOOLS
The following items are alchemical consumables that
aren’t ingested.
BLOODHOUND MASK
ITEM 2+
ALCHEMICAL
CONSUMABLE
Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk L
Activate [one-action] Interact
This wide, single-use mask is designed to be slipped over
your mouth and nose and its alchemical filter activated all
with one hand. Once activated, the mask sharpens odors,
giving you imprecise scent with the listed range. You can’t
wear other masks while you’re wearing a bloodhound mask.
When you use Survival to Track a creature by its scent,
your proficiency bonus is equal to your level even if you’re
untrained, and the mask grants you the listed item bonus to
your Survival check. The GM sets the Survival DC based on
the area’s ability to hold scent rather than on visual clues, as
normal for using scent.
Type lesser; Level 2; Price 6 gp
The range is 15 feet, the item bonus is +1, and the duration is
10 minutes.
Type moderate; Level 6; Price 40 gp
The range is 30 feet, the item bonus is +2, and the duration
is 1 hour.
Type greater; Level 11; Price 250 gp
The range is 60 feet, the item bonus is +3, and the duration
is 8 hours.
FORENSIC DYE
ITEM 1
ALCHEMICAL
CONSUMABLE
Price 3 gp
Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk L
Activate [one-action] Interact
Activating this vial of colorless liquid requires inserting a
small amount of another chemical or material, such as blood
or mud. The vial reacts rapidly, transforming into a murky,
reddish-brown substance.
Once activated, the dye remains potent for up to 10
minutes, during which time you can spend 1 minute to brush
it onto a single object of up to 1 Bulk or across the ground in a
single 5-foot square. Where the dye comes in contact with an
Advanced Player's Guide
254
254
