1ST LEVEL
BRINE MAY
FEAT 1
CHANGELING
LINEAGE
Your mother was a sea hag, granting you one sea-green or
blue eye. You find comfort both in the sea and on the shore.
Whenever you roll a success on an Athletics check to Swim,
you get a critical success instead. If you end your turn in
water without having succeeded at a Swim action that round,
you don’t sink (but you might still be moved by the current).
CALLOW MAY
FEAT 1
CHANGELING
LINEAGE
You are among the most common of changelings—those born
to green hags—and a vibrant green eye signifies that parentage.
Your mother’s manipulative nature and versatile voice gives
you an edge when deceiving others. You gain the Charming Liar
skill feat. If you roll Deception for initiative, foes in that combat
encounter that haven’t acted yet are flat-footed against you.
CHANGELING LORE
FEAT 1
CHANGELING
All too aware of your true nature, you’ve studied hags
and their powers. You gain the trained proficiency rank in
Deception and Occultism. If you would automatically become
trained in one of those skills (from your background or class,
for example), you instead become trained in a skill of your
choice. You also become trained in Hag Lore.
DREAM MAY
FEAT 1
CHANGELING
LINEAGE
You are the child of a night hag, making one of your eyes violet
or even black. Your mother’s powers over sleep and dreams
have given you a degree of resistance to those effects, granting
you a +2 circumstance bonus to all saving throws against sleep
effects and effects that cause or alter dreams.
In addition, sleep is more restorative for you. You regain HP
equal to your Constitution modifier times double your level
instead of just times your level, and you reduce any drained and
doomed conditions you have by 2 instead of by 1.
HAG CLAWS
FEAT 1
CHANGELING
When you came of age, your fingernails grew long and sharp.
You gain a claw unarmed attack that deals 1d4 slashing
damage. Your claws are in the brawling group and have the
agile, finesse, and unarmed traits.
Special Hag claws can develop at any point in a changeling’s
life, allowing you to select this feat anytime you would gain
an ancestry feat, but once you’ve selected it, you can’t retrain
out of it.
HAG’S SIGHT
FEAT 1
CHANGELING
You’ve nurtured the supernatural abilities gifted by your hag
mother, particularly your sight. You gain darkvision.
SLAG MAY
FEAT 1
CHANGELING
LINEAGE
Your mother was an annis hag, known for physical prowess,
and you have one violet or steel-gray eye. You have thick,
sturdy claws made of cold iron that grow naturally from your
body. You gain a claw unarmed attack that deals 1d6 slashing
damage. Your claws are in the brawling group, have the
unarmed and grapple traits, and are cold iron.
5TH LEVEL
CALLED
FEAT 5
CHANGELING
You have heard the Call, and in constantly resisting that
persistent demand, you’ve developed a mental bulwark against
effects that would target your mind. You gain a +1 circumstance
bonus to Will saving throws against mental effects. If you roll
a success on your saving throw against a mental effect that
would make you controlled, you get a critical success instead.
MIST CHILD
FEAT 5
CHANGELING
You blend in with unnatural subtlety. When you are concealed
or hidden, increase the DC of the flat check to target you to 6 if
you’re concealed or 12 if you’re hidden.
9TH LEVEL
ACCURSED CLAWS
FEAT 9
CHANGELING
Prerequisites claw unarmed attack
Your claws carry your mother’s hag magic. When you critically
hit with a claw Strike, the target takes an additional 1d4
persistent mental damage.
OCCULT RESISTANCE
FEAT 9
CHANGELING
Prerequisites expert in Occultism
Your study of occult practices has shown you how to best
defend against them. You gain a +1 circumstance bonus to all
saving throws against occult effects.
13TH LEVEL
HAG MAGIC
FEAT 13
CHANGELING
Through your heritage, you can replicate some of a hag’s magic.
Choose one common spell of 4th level or lower from those
available to a coven, including the spells contributed to a coven
by a hag of your mother’s type. You can cast this spell once per
day as a 4th-level occult innate spell.
Spells available to all covens are augury, charm, clairaudience,
clairvoyance, dream message, and illusory disguise. The eligible
spells granted by the most prominent types of hag are: Sea Hag
acid arrow, water walk; Green Hag entangle, outcast’s curse,
wall of thorns; Annis Hag earthbind; Night Hag nightmare
Ancestries & Backgrounds
1
3131
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Archetypes
Feats
Spells
items
glossary
& index
