BONES
Your mystery imparts an understanding of death and
undeath in all their macabre complexity. You might have
had a brush with death yourself—maybe even dying and
returning to life—or carry the touch of undeath in your
blood. If you commune with deities, you might speak with
guardians of death like Pharasma and the psychopomp
ushers (the most powerful among creatures that guide
souls through the afterlife); a bringer of death like the
Mantis God Achaekek or the Horseman of the Apocalypse
Charon; or a herald of undeath such as Urgathoa.
Mystery Benefit You can cleverly leverage the subtleties of life
and death to your benefit. Each day during your preparations,
you can choose to align yourself in the confluence of positive
and negative energy so as to gain negative healing, which
means you are harmed by positive damage and healed by
negative effects as if you were undead. If you already have
negative healing, instead the DC of your recovery checks is
equal to 9 + your current dying value.
Trained Skill Medicine
Granted Cantrip chill touch
Revelation Spells initial: soul siphon; advanced: armor of
bones; greater: claim undead
Related Domains death, undeath
CurSe of living deatH
Your body is slowly decaying even though you are alive,
and using your powers furthers this unnatural living death.
You carry a touch of the grave about you, manifesting as
bloodless pallor, a faint smell of earth, or deathly cold skin.
Minor Curse Bones protrude through your skin and your
flesh rots, combining with a stench of decay and an unearthly
chill. Non-magical effects that would restore your Hit Points
only grant you half as many HP as normal.
Moderate Curse Your dead flesh continues to rot, affecting
your health. You become drained 1, and this drained condition
is cumulative with any other drained conditions you gain.
This drained condition is removed only when you Refocus;
effects that normally remove the drained condition reduce
your drained condition to drained 1 instead. In addition, you
gain resistance to poison equal to half your level. You gain a
+4 status bonus to saves against diseases, poisons, and death
effects, and if you roll a success on such a save, you get a
critical success instead.
Major Curse (11th) You stand just steps from the grave. You
become wounded 1. This wounded condition is removed only
when you Refocus; effects that normally remove the wounded
condition reduce your wounded condition to wounded 1 instead.
When you would attempt a recovery check, you can choose
to get an automatic success instead of rolling, and if you roll
a critical failure on a save against a disease, poison, or death
effect, you get a failure instead.
COSMOS
Celestial bodies great and small exert influence on you,
giving you sublime cosmic power. Perhaps you see the
glittering stars as a divine blessing, or perhaps you feel
drawn to the infinitely dark spaces between. You might
uphold deities like Desna, Sarenrae, or the deific lovers
Shizuru and Tsukiyo who represent the sun and the
moon—or you might draw power from dark entities from
beyond the stars, like certain Outer Gods, or destructive
gods of the night like Zon-Kuthon or the rat goddess Lao
Shu Po.
Mystery Benefit Your body is as much an astronomical one as
it is physical. You gain resistance equal to 2 + half your level
against all physical damage.
Trained Skill Nature
Granted Cantrip dancing lights
Revelation Spells initial: spray of stars; advanced: interstellar
void; greater: moonlight bridge
Related Domains darkness, moon
CurSe of tHe SkY’S Call
You have your head in the clouds—and not just
figuratively. Your body is drawn toward the heavens,
making you lighter and less substantial than you should
be. Your eyes glow with starry light, and your hair and
clothing float and drift around you.
Minor Curse Your unnatural lightness makes it hard to keep
your footing and interact with other physical objects. You are
enfeebled 1 and take a –2 penalty to saves and DCs against
Grapple, Shove, and other forms of forced movement.
Moderate Curse Your body is drawn further skyward.
You are enfeebled 2, and the penalty from your minor curse
increases to –3. You are treated as one size smaller for wind
effects. You gain a +2 status bonus against Trip attempts, you
only take half as much damage from falls, and you gain the
TABLE 2–4: ANCESTRAL INFLUENCE
1d4
Ancestor
Preferred Action
Moderate Curse Benefit
Major Curse Benefit
1
Martial
Strikes
Your Strikes gain a +1 status bonus
Your Strikes gain a +1 status bonus



to attack rolls and a +2 status bonus
to attack rolls and a +6 status bonus



to damage.
to damage.
2
Skillful
Perception and Skill
You gain a +1 status bonus to skill
You gain a +2 status bonus to skill


actions
checks and Perception checks.
checks and Perception checks.
3
Spellcasting
Cast a Spell
Non-cantrip spells without a duration
Non-cantrip spells without a duration



gain a status bonus to their damage
gain a status bonus to their damage



and healing equal to the spell’s level.
and healing equal to the spell’s level +3.
4
You choose which ancestor guides your actions.
Classes
2
75
75
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Archetypes
Feats
Spells
items
glossary
& index
