Bounty Hunter
Whether for coin, glory, or justice, you know how to
track, defeat, and capture dangerous individuals. You’re
accustomed to perusing wanted posters, searching up on
leads, and pursuing villains to hell and back.
Additional Feats: 14th Double Prey (Core Rulebook 175)
BOUNTY HUNTER DEDICATION
FEAT 2
ARCHETYPE
DEDICATION
Prerequisites trained in Survival
When focused on finding your quarry, you’re relentless. You
gain the Hunt Prey action (Core Rulebook 168). You can use
Hunt Prey to designate only a creature that you’ve seen, heard
about, or learned about through some other means, such as a
bounty board or wanted poster. In addition to the other benefits
of Hunt Prey, you gain a +2 circumstance bonus to checks to
Gather Information regarding your prey.
If you already have Hunt Prey, you become an expert in
Survival and gain the circumstance bonus to Gather Information
about your prey; you can still designate a creature you’re
tracking during exploration, in addition to the conditions above.
Special You can’t select another dedication feat until you
have gained two other feats from the bounty hunter archetype.
TOOLS OF THE TRADE
FEAT 4
ARCHETYPE
You’re well-versed in weapons that allow you to bring bounties
in alive. You are trained with the following weapons: bola
(page 248), sap, and whip. You gain access to bolas. Whenever
you gain a class feature that grants you expert or greater
proficiency in a given weapon or weapons, you also gain that
proficiency in the weapons listed.
In addition, you take no penalty when making a nonlethal
attack with a weapon without the nonlethal trait.
POSSE
FEAT 4
ARCHETYPE
EXPLORATION
Requirements You have designated prey with Hunt Prey.
By spending 1 minute giving guidance to help hunt down your
prey, you instruct up to five willing creatures to assist you.
They gain a +1 circumstance bonus to Seek your prey, to Track
your prey, and to Gather Information about your prey. You and
the creatures assisting you gain a +1 circumstance bonus to
initiative rolls when entering combat with your prey.
This benefit lasts until you designate a new prey or your prey
dies, whichever comes first. An individual creature assisting
you loses this benefit if they’re out of your presence for too
long to benefit from your instructions. This is usually 1 hour, but
is determined by the GM.
KEEP PACE [reaction]
FEAT 6
ARCHETYPE
Trigger Your prey is within reach and attempts to move away
from you.
Your prey can’t Escape. Stride up to your Speed, following the
foe and keeping it in reach throughout its movement until it
stops moving or you’ve moved your full Speed. You can use
Keep Pace to Burrow, Climb, Fly, or Swim instead of Stride if
you have the corresponding movement type.
OPPORTUNISTIC GRAPPLE [reaction]
FEAT 8
ARCHETYPE
Requirements Your prey is within your reach, you have at
least one free hand, and your target is no more than one
size larger than you.
Trigger Your prey critically fails on a melee Strike’s attack roll
against you.
You attempt an Athletics check to Grapple your prey.
Archetypes
3
163
163
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Archetypes
Feats
Spells
items
glossary
& Index
