Class Features
You gain these abilities as an oracle. Abilities gained at
higher levels list the level at which you gain them.
ANCESTRY AND BACKGROUND
In addition to what you get from your class at 1st
level, you have the benefits of your selected ancestry
and background.
INITIAL PROFICIENCIES
At 1st level, you gain a number of proficiencies that
represent your basic training. These proficiencies are
noted at the start of this class.
DIVINE SPELLCASTING
Your mystery provides you with divine magical power.
You can cast spells using the Cast a Spell activity,
and you can supply material, somatic, and verbal
components when casting spells. Your unconventional
access to this divine power means you can usually
replace material components with somatic components,
so you don’t need to use a material component pouch
when casting spells.
At 1st level, you can cast up to two 1st-level spells per
day. You must know spells to cast them, and you learn
them via the spell repertoire class feature. The number of
spells you can cast each day is called your spell slots. As
you increase in level as an oracle, your number of spells
per day increases, as does the highest level of spells you
can cast, as shown on Table 2–3: Oracle Spells per Day
on page 71.
Some of your spells require you to attempt a spell attack
roll to see how effective they are, or have your enemies roll
against your spell DC (typically by attempting a saving
throw). Since your key ability is Charisma, your spell
attack rolls and spell DCs use your Charisma modifier.
HeigHtening SpellS
When you get spell slots of 2nd level and higher, you can
fill those slots with stronger versions of lower-level spells.
To cast a heightened spell, you must have the heightened
version in your repertoire; for example, you can’t cast a
3rd-level version of a spell that is only in your repertoire
at 1st level. Many spells have specific improvements
when they are heightened to certain levels. The signature
spells class feature (page 71) lets you heighten certain
spells freely.
CantripS
A cantrip is a special type of spell that doesn’t use spell slots.
You can cast a cantrip at will, any number of times per day.
A cantrip is always automatically heightened to half your
level rounded up-this is usually equal to the highest level of
spell you can cast as an oracle. For example, as a 1st-level
oracle, your cantrips are 1st-level spells, and as a 5th-level
oracle, your cantrips are 3rd-level spells.
SPELL REPERTOIRE
The collection of spells you can cast is called your spell
repertoire. At 1st level, you learn two 1st-level spells of
your choice and five cantrips of your choice. You choose
these from the common spells from the divine spell list,
or from other divine spells to which you have access. You
can cast any spell in your spell repertoire by using a spell
slot of an appropriate spell level.
You add to this spell repertoire as you increase in level.
Each time you get a spell slot (see Table 2–3), you add
a spell of the same level to your spell repertoire. At 2nd
level, you select another 1st-level spell; at 3rd level, you
select two 2nd-level spells, and so on. When you add
spells, you might add a higher-level version of a spell
you already have, so you can cast a heightened version
of that spell.
Though you gain them at the same rate, your spell slots
and the spells in your spell repertoire are separate. If a
feat or other ability adds a spell to your spell repertoire,
it wouldn’t give you another spell slot, and vice versa.
TABLE 2–2: ORACLE ADVANCEMENT
Your
Level Class Features
1
Ancestry and background, initial proficiencies,

divine spellcasting, spell repertoire, mystery
2
Oracle feat, skill feat
3
2nd-level spells, general feat, signature spells,

skill increase
4
Oracle feat, skill feat
5
3rd-level spells, ability boosts, ancestry feat,

skill increase
6
Oracle feat, skill feat
7
4th-level spells, expert spellcaster, general feat,

resolve, skill increase
8
Oracle feat, skill feat
9
5th-level spells, ancestry feat, magical fortitude,

skill increase
10
Ability boosts, oracle feat, skill feat
11
6th-level spells, alertness, general feat, major curse,

skill increase, weapon expertise
12
Oracle feat, skill feat
13
7th-level spells, ancestry feat, light armor

expertise, lightning reflexes, skill increase, weapon

specialization
14
Oracle feat, skill feat
15
8th-level spells, ability boosts, general feat, master

spellcaster, skill increase
16
Oracle feat, skill feat
17
9th-level spells, ancestry feat, extreme curse,

greater resolve, skill increase
18
Oracle feat, skill feat
19
General feat, legendary spellcaster, oracular

clarity, skill increase
20
Ability boosts, oracle feat, skill feat
Advanced Player's Guide
68
68
