JINXED HALFLING
UNCOMMON
You were born with a strange blessing: bereft
of the typical halfling luck, you can instead
manipulate the fortunes of others. You can
never take the Halfling Luck feat, and
you gain the Jinx action.
JINX [two-actions]
CURSE
NECROMANCY
OCCULT
Frequency once per day
You can curse another creature with clumsiness.
This curse has a range of 30 feet, and you must
be able to see your target. The target gets a Will
saving throw to resist this jinx, using your
class DC or spell DC, whichever is higher.
Success The target is unaffected and is
temporarily immune for 24 hours.
Failure The target is clumsy 1 for 1
minute.
Critical Failure The target is clumsy 2
for 1 minute.
Halfling Ancestry Feats
1ST LEVEL
FOLKSY PATTER
FEAT 1
HALFLING
You are adept at disguising coded messages as folksy idioms.
Using slang, jokes, halfling loanwords, and the like, you convey
a simple message consisting of three basic words (such as
“Danger assassin flee” or “Meet me moonrise”). Your intended
listener can attempt a Perception check to discern the message
(DC 20 if an ally, DC 15 if a halfling ally, DC 10 if a halfling ally
with Folksy Patter). Eavesdroppers can also attempt a Perception
check against your Deception DC to discern your meaning. Any
bonuses or penalties to Perception checks to Sense Motive apply.
PRAIRIE RIDER
FEAT 1
HALFLING
You grew up riding your clan’s shaggy ponies and riding dogs. You
become trained in Nature. If you would automatically become
trained in Nature (from your background or class, for example),
you instead become trained in a skill of your choice. You also get
a +1 circumstance bonus to Command an Animal if the target is a
traditional halfling mount, such as a pony or riding dog.
5TH LEVEL
STEP LIVELY [reaction]
FEAT 5
HALFLING
Trigger A Large or larger enemy ends a move action adjacent
to you.
You are an expert at avoiding the lumbering footsteps of larger
creatures. You Step to another space adjacent to the enemy.
9TH LEVEL
DANCE UNDERFOOT
FEAT 9
HALFLING
Prerequisites Step Lively
You dart under the legs of your enemies in
combat. You can end a successful Tumble
Through action in a Large or larger enemy’s
space. Also, when using the Step Lively feat, you
can Step into the triggering enemy’s space. The
enemy must have limbs or otherwise
leave you enough room for this
maneuver, as determined by the
GM. For instance, you could share
space with a giant or dragon, but not
an ooze.
UNHAMPERED PASSAGE
FEAT 9
HALFLING
You won’t allow others to restrain you. You can cast freedom
of movement on yourself as a primal innate spell once per day.
13TH LEVEL
TOPPLING DANCE
FEAT 13
HALFLING
Prerequisites Dance Underfoot
While sharing a creature’s space using Dance Underfoot, your
weapons and unarmed attacks gain the trip trait, but only
against the creature whose space you share. You can be in
the same space as a Large or larger prone creature, even if it’s
not your ally.
17TH LEVEL
SHADOW SELF
FEAT 17
HALFLING
Prerequisites legendary Stealth
Frequency once per hour
Trigger You successfully use Stealth to Hide and become
hidden from all your current foes, or use Stealth to Sneak
and become undetected to all your current foes.
With a powerful talent for misdirection, you slip from your
adversaries’ notice so thoroughly you appear to be somewhere
else. You become invisible for 1 minute or until you take a
hostile action, whichever comes first. Choose a location within
10 feet of you. Until your invisibility ends, you appear to be
hidden in that location to anyone trying to find you. If the
searcher gets clear evidence that you’re not there, they no
longer think you’re hidden there, but they don’t discover your
actual location.
Halfling Heritages
Advanced Player's Guide
46
46
