CORONER
When someone finds a body, you’re first on the scene. You
share the clues you learn through keen observation with
your team to ensure you always apprehend the culprit.
ABILITY SCORES
Intelligence comes first, followed by Wisdom to support
your perceptiveness and healing abilities. Dexterity helps
your defenses.
SKILLS
Arcana, Athletics, Diplomacy, Medicine, Occultism,
Religion, Society, Survival
METHODOLOGY
Forensic medicine
STARTING FEAT
That’s Odd
HIGHER-LEVEL FEATS
Scalpel’s Point (4th), Thorough Research (6th), Strategic
Bypass (14th), Reconstruct the Scene (16th)
SAMPLE INVESTIGATOR
LIE DETECTOR
FEAT 4
INVESTIGATOR
Prerequisites empiricism or interrogation methodology
You’re adept at noticing the tells of a liar—sweat, flushing,
a quavering voice, a quickening pulse. You gain a +1
circumstance bonus to Perception checks to Sense Motive and
to Perception DCs against attempts to Lie to you. When you
determine someone is lying to you, you can use their deceit to
your advantage to gain a +1 circumstance bonus to the next
Deception, Diplomacy, Intimidation, or Performance check you
attempt against that creature within the next minute.
ONGOING INVESTIGATION
FEAT 4
INVESTIGATOR
You’re always investigating what’s around you, even as you
perform other activities. You can move at full Speed while
using the Investigate exploration activity, and you can use
another exploration activity while Investigating.
SCALPEL’S POINT
FEAT 4
INVESTIGATOR
Prerequisites forensic medicine methodology
Your stratagems benefit from your precise knowledge of
anatomy. When you critically hit with an attack on which you
substituted your attack roll due to Devising a Stratagem, if
your attack dealt piercing or slashing damage, you also deal
1d6 persistent bleed damage to your target.
STRATEGIC ASSESSMENT
FEAT 4
INVESTIGATOR
You learn your foes’ strengths and weaknesses by watching
them move. When you critically hit a creature with a Strike
on which you substituted your attack roll due to Devising
a Stratagem, the GM chooses one of the following pieces of
information about the enemy to tell you.
• Which of the enemy’s weaknesses is highest
• Which of the enemy’s resistances is highest
• Which of the enemy’s saving throws is lowest
• One immunity the enemy has
The GM can choose deliberately or at random, but they can’t
choose information that doesn’t apply (such as choosing an
immunity for an enemy that has no immunities). This applies
only the first time you critically hit a given creature.
6TH LEVEL
CONNECT THE DOTS
FEAT 6
UNCOMMON
CONCENTRATE
INVESTIGATOR
SECRET
Requirements You must be pursuing at least two leads.
Ephemeral connections between people, places, and
concepts are invisible to most, but seeing them is your
stock and trade. You spend 10 minutes considering two
different leads you’re pursuing. You then attempt a check
to investigate how connected the two are. Unless the GM
determines otherwise, this is a Crafting check if they’re
both items or a Society check for other combinations
Advanced Player's Guide
62
62
