Sample NameS
Arkus, Ausk, Durra, Grask, Grillgiss, Krugga, Mahja,
Murdut, Ollak, Onyat, Thurk, Uirch, Unach
Orc Heritages
Orcs have a long history on the surface of the world,
and a far longer history underground. Their hardy
physiques and demanding lifestyles have led to various
adaptations. Choose one of the following orc heritages
at 1st level.
BADLANDS ORC
You come from sun-scorched badlands, where long legs
and an ability to withstand the elements helped you
thrive. You can Hustle twice as long while exploring
before you have to stop, and you treat environmental
heat effects as if they were one step less extreme
(incredible heat becomes extreme, extreme heat becomes
severe, and so on).
DEEP ORC
Your calloused hands and red eyes speak to a life spent
in the deep darkness of mountain caverns, where you
learned to battle on rocky cliffs and survive with minimal
resources. You gain the Terrain Expertise skill feat for
underground terrain and the Combat Climber skill feat.
HOLD-SCARRED ORC
You are part of an orc community that participates in
ritual scarification or tattooing. The marks on your skin
show your exceptional hardiness and vitality. You gain 12
Hit Points from your ancestry instead of 10. You also gain
the Diehard feat.
RAINFALL ORC
You were born in a rain forest with only tangles of trees
providing protection from torrential rainstorms and flash
floods. You’ve learned to move adeptly through jungle
terrain and resist the various ailments common in humid
environs. You gain a +2 circumstance bonus to Athletics
checks to Climb or Swim and a +1 circumstance bonus to
saving throws against diseases.
Orc Ancestry Feats
At 1st level, you gain one ancestry feat, and you gain an
additional ancestry feat every 4 levels thereafter (at 5th,
9th, 13th, and 17th level). As an orc, you can select from
among the following ancestry feats, plus the feats with the
orc trait listed in the Half-Orc Ancestry Feats section on
page 59 of the Core Rulebook.
1ST LEVEL
BEAST TRAINER
FEAT 1
ORC
You have an impressive innate ability to tame and command
ferocious beasts. You become trained in the Nature skill and
gain the Train Animal skill feat.
IRON FISTS
FEAT 1
ORC
Your fists have been forged by battle, your naturally tough
skin and dense bone further hardened by conflict. Your fist
unarmed attacks no longer have the nonlethal trait and gain
the shove weapon trait.
ORC LORE
FEAT 1
ORC
The hold elders taught you your people’s histories, told tales
of great athletic feats, and shared with you the hardships your
ancestors endured so that you can pass this wisdom down
to future generations. You become trained in Athletics and
Survival. If you would automatically become trained in one
of those skills (from your background or class, for example),
you instead become trained in a skill of your choice. You also
become trained in Orc Lore.
TUSKS
FEAT 1
ORC
You have particularly long, jagged tusks perfect for tearing
meat from bone. You gain a tusks unarmed attack that deals
1d6 piercing damage. Your tusks are in the brawling group and
have the finesse and unarmed traits.
Special You can take this feat only at 1st level, and you
can’t retrain into this feat. You can retrain out of this feat only
through drastic measures such as breaking or filing your tusks.
5TH LEVEL
ATHLETIC MIGHT
FEAT 5
ORC
Surviving in hostile terrain has given you a great talent for
mobility. Whenever you roll a success on an Athletics check to
Climb or Swim, you get a critical success instead.
BLOODY BLOWS
FEAT 5
ORC
Your lethal unarmed attacks leave bloody gouges or cause
severe internal bleeding. When you critically hit with a Strike
using an unarmed attack that isn’t nonlethal, the target takes
1d4 persistent bleed damage. This can be because you’re
taking the penalty to use a fist for a lethal attack or because
you have an unarmed attack without the nonlethal trait due to
Iron Fists, Tusks, or a similar ability.
HOLD MARK
FEAT 5
ORC
You bear scars or tattoos enhanced by the mark of your
community’s prowess. When you select this feat, choose one
of the options on the following page. When you critically hit
using a weapon of the listed group, you apply the weapon’s
critical specialization effect. You gain a large brand or tattoo
Advanced Player's Guide
1818
