RARITY
Uncommon
HIT POINTS
8
SIZE
Medium
SPEED
25 feet
ABILITY BOOSTS
Dexterity
Charisma
Free
ABILITY FLAW
Wisdom
LANGUAGES
Amurrun
Common
Additional languages equal to your
Intelligence modifier (if it’s positive).
Choose from Draconic, Elven,
Gnomish, Goblin, Halfling, Iruxi
(the language of lizardfolk), Jotun,
Sylvan, and any other languages to
which you have access (such as the
languages prevalent in your region).
TRAITS
Catfolk
Humanoid
LOW-LIGHT VISION
You can see in dim light as though it
were bright light, so you ignore the
concealed condition due to dim light.
LAND ON YOUR FEET
When you fall, you take only half the
normal damage and don’t land prone.
average human and, because of their lean builds, almost never weigh as
much as a human of similar height.
SOCIETY
Catfolk call themselves amurruns, although many consider this name to be
private. They raise their children in large extended families, where they are
given what many other humanoids see as a distressing latitude to explore and
get into trouble from a remarkably young age. Catfolk learn a trade in a loose
apprenticeship, and the majority learn several trades over their lives.
Catfolk societies are often led by an appointed leader who speaks on behalf
of the community and mediates disputes. A catfolk leader is most often a
spellcaster and usually female. Catfolk prefer to deal with grievances by
making an elaborate showing of disinterest, or even leaving a community for
a time so the problem can die away or work itself out.
ALIGNMENT AND RELIGION
Catfolk aren’t a particularly religious people, but most do believe they were
uplifted from great primeval cats to confront the evil abominations despoiling
natural places and laboring to unmake reality. The gods blessed catfolk with
language, the use of tools and weapons, and a strong sense of community.
Most catfolk are good. They enjoy the freedom to travel and like to set their
own paths in life, so more catfolk are chaotic than lawful. Religious catfolk
most often practice a nebulous form of animism, appeasing the spirits of the
land and the creatures they hunt to preserve the natural order.
NAMES
Catfolk are given short names in their youth. Adolescent catfolk are free
to choose a different name when they first leave home, though some
simply keep the name they’ve gotten used to. Catfolk love to add titles and
honorifics to their names. Some catfolk use their titles exclusively among
non-catfolk, and so become known by epithets like Six Fates, Fiend Killer,
or Mistcloak.
Sample NameS
Alyara, Crinto, Drewan, Espes, Ferrus, Gerran, Halhat, Hoya, Ruun, Sevastin,
Tespa, Yonsol, Zakkar, Zathra
Catfolk Heritages
Catfolk have ancestors as varied as any felines. Choose one of the following
catfolk heritages at 1st level.
CLAWED CATFOLK
Your family has particularly long, sharp claws capable of delivering bleeding
wounds with a wicked swipe. You gain a claw unarmed attack that deals 1d6
slashing damage. Your claws are in the brawling group and have the agile,
finesse, and unarmed traits.
HUNTING CATFOLK
You come from a long line of skilled hunters and trackers and have a
particularly keen sense of smell. You gain imprecise scent with a range of 30
feet. This means you can use your sense of smell to determine a creature’s
location, as explained on page 465 of the Core Rulebook. The GM will usually
double the range if you’re downwind from the creature or halve the range if
you’re upwind.
In addition, you gain a +2 circumstance bonus to Track a creature or object
if you’ve smelled it before.
Ancestries & Backgrounds
1
9
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Archetypes
Feats
Spells
items
glossary
& index
