rune (magic item) 260–265, CR 580–585
scrying (trait) A scrying effect lets you see, hear, or otherwise get sensory
information from a distance using a sensor or apparatus, rather than
your own eyes and ears.
secret (trait) The GM rolls the check for this ability in secret. CR 450
shadow (trait) This magic involves shadows or the energy of the
Shadow Plane.
shield (magic item) 260–262, CR 586–588
shove (weapon trait) You can use this weapon to Shove with the Athletics
skill even if you don’t have a free hand. This uses the weapon’s reach (if
different from your own) and adds the weapon’s item bonus to attack
rolls as an item bonus to the Athletics check. If you critically fail a
check to Shove using the weapon, you can drop the weapon to take
the effects of a failure instead of a critical failure.
silver (material) CR 579
skill (trait) A general feat with the skill trait improves your skills and their
actions or gives you new actions for a skill. A feat with this trait can
be selected when a class grants a skill feat or general feat. Archetype
feats with the skill trait can be selected in place of a skill feat if you
have that archetype’s dedication feat.
snare (trait) Traps typically made by rangers, snares follow special rules
that allow them to be constructed quickly and used on the battlefield.
256, CR 589–591
social (trait) Actions and abilities with the social trait can be used only
while a vigilante is in their social identity. 196
sonic (trait) An effect with the sonic trait functions only if it makes sound,
meaning it has no effect in an area of silence or in a vacuum. This is
different from an auditory spell, which is effective only if the target
can hear it. A sonic effect might deal sonic damage.
sorcerer (class) 138–141, CR 190–201

bloodline spells 235–237, CR 402–406

spell lists 212–213, CR 307–315
sorcerer (trait) This indicates abilities from the sorcerer class.
spell A magical effect created by performing mystical incantations and
gestures known only to those with special training or inborn abilities.
CR 297–306

focus spells (bloodline spells, composition spells, devotion spells, hex
spells, ki spells, order spells, revelation spells, warden spells) 228–239,
CR 300–302

spell descriptions 214–227, CR 316–385

spell lists 212–213, CR 307–315
spell attack roll You attempt a spell attack roll when targeting a creature
with aimed magic. Your multiple attack penalty applies. Spell attack
roll modifier = spellcasting ability modifier + proficiency bonus + other
bonuses + penalties. CR 447–448
spell DC Your spell DC measures how hard it is to resist your spells with
saving throws or to counteract them. Spell DC = 10 + spellcasting ability
modifier + proficiency bonus + other bonuses + penalties. CR 448
spirit (trait) Spirits are ephemeral creatures defined by their spiritual self
and often lacking a physical form.
splash (trait) When you use a thrown weapon with the splash trait, you
don’t add your Strength modifier to the damage roll. If an attack with
a splash weapon fails, succeeds, or critically succeeds, all creatures
within 5 feet of the target (including the target) take the listed
splash damage. On a failure (but not a critical failure), the target of
the attack still takes the splash damage. Add splash damage together
with the initial damage against the target before applying the target’s
weaknesses or resistances. You don’t multiply splash damage on a
critical hit. CR 544
staff (trait) This magic item holds spells of a particular theme and allows
a spellcaster to cast additional spells by preparing the staff. 263–264,
CR 592
stance (trait) A stance is a general combat strategy that you enter by
using an action with the stance trait, and that you remain in for some
time. A stance lasts until you get knocked out, until its requirements
(if any) are violated, until the encounter ends, or until you enter a new
stance, whichever comes first. After you use an action with the stance
trait, you can’t use another one for 1 round. You can enter or be in a
stance only in encounter mode.
staves (magic item) 263–264, CR 592–595
structure (trait) An item with the structure trait creates a magical building
or other structure when activated. The item must be activated on a
plot of land free of other structures. The structure adapts to the
natural terrain, adopting the structural requirements for being built
there. The structure adjusts around small features such as ponds
or spires of rock, but it can’t be created on water or other nonsolid
surfaces. If activated on snow, sand dunes, or other soft surfaces with
a solid surface underneath, the structure’s foundation (if any) reaches
the solid ground. If an item with this trait is activated on a solid but
unstable surface, such as a swamp or an area plagued by tremors, roll
a DC 3 flat check each day; on a failure, the structure begins to sink
or collapse.
The structure doesn’t harm creatures within the area when it
appears, and it can’t be created within a crowd or in a densely populated
area. Any creature inadvertently caught inside the structure when the
item is activated ends up unharmed inside the complete structure and
always has a clear path of escape. A creature inside the structure when
the activation ends isn’t harmed, and it lands harmlessly on the ground
if it was on an upper level of the structure.
summoned (trait) A creature called by a conjuration spell or effect gains
the summoned trait. A summoned creature can’t summon other
creatures, create things of value, or cast spells that require a cost. It
has the minion trait. If it tries to Cast a Spell of equal or higher level
than the spell that summoned it, it overpowers the summoning magic,
causing its own spell to fail and the summon spell to end. Otherwise,
the summoned creature uses the standard abilities for a creature of
its kind. It generally attacks your enemies to the best of its abilities.
If you can communicate with it, you can attempt to command it, but
the GM determines the degree to which it follows your commands.
Immediately when you finish Casting the Spell, the summoned creature
uses its 2 actions for that turn. A summoned creature can't control any
spawn or other creatures generated from it, and such creatures return
to their unaltered state (usually a corpse in the case of spawn) once
the summoned creature is gone. If it's unclear what this state would
be, the GM decides. Summoned creatures can be banished by various
spells and effects. They are automatically banished if reduced to 0 Hit
Points or if the spell that called them ends.
Sustain an Activation [one-action] (action) Extend a magic item activation with a
sustained duration to the end of your next turn. CR 534
Sustain a Spell [one-action] (action) Extend a spell with a sustained duration.
CR 304
sustained A spell with this duration can be extended with Sustain a
Spell. CR 304
swashbuckler (class) 82–93

multiclass archetype 153
swashbuckler (trait) This trait indicates abilities from the
swashbuckler class.
talisman (trait) A talisman is a small object affixed to armor, a shield, or
a weapon (called the affixed item). You must be wielding or wearing
an item to activate a talisman attached to it. Once activated, a
talisman burns out permanently. 256, CR 565–570
teleportation (trait) Teleportation effects allow you to instantaneously
move from one point in space to another. Teleportation does not
usually trigger reactions based on movement.
temporary immunity An effect that makes a creature temporarily
immune lets that creature avoid new effects of the same name, but
it doesn’t end anything caused by the effect that gave the temporary
immunity. CR 453
temporary items Some archetypes allow you to prepare temporary
items. These temporary items last only a short time before becoming
useless. 150
tengu (trait) A creature with this trait is a member of the tengu ancestry.
Tengus are humanoids who resemble birds. An ability with this trait
can be used or selected only by tengus. An item with this trait is
created and used by tengus. 24–27
thrown (weapon trait) You can throw this weapon as a ranged attack; it
is a ranged weapon when thrown. You add your Strength modifier to
damage as you would for a melee weapon. When this trait appears on
a melee weapon, it also includes the range increment. Ranged weapons
with this trait use the range increment in the weapon’s Range entry.
tiefling (trait) A creature with this trait has the tiefling versatile heritage.
Tieflings are planar scions descended from fiends. An ability with this
trait can be used or selected only by tieflings. 39–41
transmutation (trait) Effects and magic items with this trait are
associated with the transmutation school of magic, typically changing
something’s form.
trap (trait) A hazard or item with this trait is constructed to hinder
interlopers. CR 520
trigger A specified event when you can use a reaction or free action.
CR 462
two-hand (weapon trait) This weapon can be wielded with two hands.
Doing so changes its weapon damage die to the indicated value. This
change applies to all the weapon’s damage dice, such as those from
striking runes.
unarmed attack Any attack with the unarmed trait, typically those made
using a part of your body rather than a weapon or spell. CR 283
uncommon (trait) Something of uncommon rarity requires special training
or comes from a particular culture or part of the world. Some character
Advanced Player's Guide
270
270
