Druid Feats
1ST LEVEL
VERDANT WEAPON
FEAT 1
DRUID
EXPLORATION
You cultivate a seed that can sprout into a wooden staff, vine
whip, or another weapon. You spend 10 minutes focusing
primal energy into a seed, imprinting it with the potential
of a single level 0 weapon you are trained with and that has
no mechanical parts or metal components. When holding
the imprinted seed, you can spend a single Interact action
to cause it to immediately grow into that weapon; a second
Interact action returns it to seed form. Your verdant weapon
functions as the imprinted weapon and can be etched
with runes or affixed with talismans as normal, which are
suppressed when the weapon is in seed form. It also becomes
a primal focus.
You can have only one verdant seed at a time. If you prepare
a second, your first verdant seed immediately becomes a
mundane specimen; any runes on the previous seed that are
valid for the new seed transfer between them at no cost, but
you lose any inapplicable runes unless you transfer them to a
runestone or another weapon.
4TH LEVEL
ELEMENTAL SUMMONS
FEAT 4
DRUID
You can call the four elements to you. You can spend 10
minutes in concert with nature to replace one of the spells
you’ve prepared in one of your druid spell slots with a summon
elemental spell of the same level.
LESHY FAMILIAR SECRETS
FEAT 4
DRUID
METAMAGIC
Prerequisites leaf order
The leaf order’s secrets allow your familiar to take advantage
of its leshy form. You can select one additional familiar ability
each day, which must be one of the following leshy familiar
abilities. You can’t select more than one leshy familiar ability
at a time.
• Grasping Tendrils Your familiar can extend vines or
similar tendrils, increasing its reach to 15 feet.
• Purify Air Your familiar recycles air, providing enough
oxygen for a Medium creature in areas with stale air,
such as a sealed chamber or extradimensional space. If
the leshy is within the area of an inhaled poison effect or
an effect that relies on smell, creatures within a 15-foot
emanation from the leshy gain a +2 circumstance bonus
to their saving throws against the effect.
• Verdant Burst When your familiar dies, it releases
its primal energy to cast the 3-action version of heal,
heightened to a level 1 lower than your highest-level
spell slot. The heal spell gains a status bonus equal to
twice the spell’s level to the Hit Points it restores to
plants. You must be able to cast 2nd-level spells using
spell slots to select this familiar ability.
6TH LEVEL
CURRENT SPELL [one-action]
FEAT 6
ABJURATION
CONCENTRATE
DRUID
METAMAGIC
As you use your magic to manipulate air or water, you divert
some of its currents to form a barrier around you. If your next
action is to Cast a Spell with the air or water trait, until the
start of your next turn, you gain a +1 circumstance bonus to
AC or a +2 circumstance bonus against ranged attacks. This
effect has the air or water trait, or both, depending on the
traits of the spell you cast. You also gain a +1 circumstance
bonus to all saves against effects with the air trait, water
trait, or both until the start of your next turn, depending on
the spell’s traits.
8TH LEVEL
DEIMATIC DISPLAY [one-action]
FEAT 8
DRUID
Prerequisites trained in Intimidation
Imitating animal threat displays, you make yourself appear
larger and more imposing. Roll one Intimidation check to
Demoralize and compare the result to the Will DC of each
animal, fungus, and plant creature in a 15-foot cone. When
you do, Demoralize gains the visual trait, and creatures are
affected if they can see you. You don’t take a penalty if the
creature doesn’t understand your language.
10TH LEVEL
PRISTINE WEAPON
FEAT 10
DRUID
Prerequisites Verdant Weapon
Your verdant weapon can cut through the resistances of
magical creatures. The weapon is treated as cold iron and
silver. If you critically hit a creature that has a weakness
to cold iron or silver, the target takes 1d6 persistent bleed
damage as the primal energies within your weapon slow its
natural healing.
DRUID
This section contains a selection of new feats that allow druids of all orders
to literally grow their own weapons or plant spells in the ground like seeds.
Advanced Player's Guide
124
124
