easily snap open in dire circumstances. When you drink this
potion, you become fleeing for 1 minute, and you gain a +40-foot
status bonus to all your Speeds for the duration as long as you
are fleeing. You immediately Stride.
POTION OF RETALIATION
ITEM 1+
CONSUMABLE
EVOCATION
MAGICAL
POTION
Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk L
Activate [one-action] Interact
A potion of retaliation is available in four varieties—acid, cold,
electricity, and fire—each with a faint shimmer reminiscent of
the energy it contains. For 1 minute after drinking a potion
of retaliation, you glow with a faint aura of that energy, and
a creature that touches you (such as by making an unarmed
attack or using a spell with a range of touch against you)
takes damage of that type. The moderate, greater, and major
versions also damage an adjacent creature that hits you with
a melee weapon Strike.
Type minor; Level 1; Price 4 gp
The aura deals 1 damage.
Type lesser; Level 3; Price 12 gp
The aura deals 1d4 damage.
Type moderate; Level 6; Price 50 gp
The aura deals 2d4 damage.
Type greater; Level 12; Price 400 gp
The aura deals 3d6 damage.
Type major; Level 18; Price 5,000 gp
The aura deals 4d8 damage.
POTION OF SHARED MEMORIES
ITEM 1
CONSUMABLE
DIVINATION
MAGICAL
MENTAL
POTION
Price 4 gp
Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk L
Activate [one-action] Interact
A potion of shared memories can transfer recollections from
one creature to another. To place a memory in the potion,
you must hold the vial and focus on a particular memory for
1 minute. This memory must be of a single event, location,
person, or otherwise encompass a span of about 1 minute.
The clear fluid takes on a shimmering hue reminiscent of the
stored memory and gains a slightly sweet taste.
Upon consuming the potion, the drinker vividly recalls
the memory, and thereafter can remember it as easily as a
memory they actually experienced. An unwilling drinker can
refuse to absorb the memory.
RATION TONIC
ITEM 1+
CONJURATION
CONSUMABLE
MAGICAL
POTION
Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk L
Activate [one-action] Interact
This slender vial appears to hold clean, clear water with a
faintly fruity scent. Drinking a ration tonic magically nourishes
you with the equivalent of a day’s worth of food and water.
The tonic has a subtle, pleasant taste, its particulars chosen
when the potion is crafted.
Type ration tonic; Level 1; Price 3 gp
Type greater ration tonic; Level 7; Price 55 gp
A greater ration tonic nourishes you for 1 week instead of 1
day, distributing the nourishment in a constant and healthy
flow across the week.
SHIELDING SALVE
ITEM 1
ABJURATION
CONSUMABLE
MAGICAL
OIL
Price 4 gp
Usage held in 2 hands; Bulk L
Activate [one-action] Interact
This shimmering paste has many properties of a shield spell.
When you slather it onto a creature or object, the target gains
a +1 circumstance bonus to AC for 1 round. The first time a
physical attack or a magic missile hits the target during that
round, the oil prevents 5 damage from that attack or spell, and
then the oil’s effect ends.
TERRIFYING AMMUNITION
ITEM 6
CONSUMABLE
EMOTION
ENCHANTMENT
FEAR
MAGICAL
MENTAL
Price 50 gp
Ammunition any
Activate [one-action] Interact
This black-and-gray ammunition is etched with occult
symbols and tiny, grinning skulls. When activated terrifying
ammunition damages a creature, it fills the creature’s mind
with visions of their own failures, tragedies, and eventually,
their own death. The creature must attempt a DC 20 Will save.
Critical Success The creature is unaffected.
Success The creature is frightened 1.
Failure The creature is frightened 1 and can’t reduce its
frightened value below 1 until it spends an action, which
has the concentrate trait, to calm itself down.
Critical Failure As failure, but the creature is frightened 2.
TIME SHIELD POTION
ITEM 13
CONSUMABLE
MAGICAL
POTION
TRANSMUTATION
Price 600 gp
Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk L
Activate [one-action] Interact
This purple potion has a bitter taste and seems to blur with
motion. When you drink a time shield potion, you are frozen in
time for 2d4 rounds. You can’t act or be targeted, you become
immune to all effects, and you vanish from your space; as far
as the universe is concerned, you simply don’t exist as long
as the potion lasts. The durations of any effects targeting you
when you drink the potion are suspended until it wears off.
Once the potion’s duration expires, you return to the normal
flow of time and your former space; if that space is now
occupied, you get shunted to the nearest unoccupied space.
Effects with durations immediately resume affecting you,
elapsing as though no time has passed. If you are within the
area of an effect created while you were outside of time, you
immediately take those effects upon returning. The GM might
determine that other changes that occurred while you were
outside of time (such as the ground beneath you crumbling)
also affect you upon your return.
Items
6
259
259
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Archetypes
Feats
Spells
items
glossary
& Index
