APE
Your companion is an ape or other primate.
Size Small
Melee [one-action] fist, Damage 1d8 bludgeoning
Str +3, Dex +1, Con +2, Int –4, Wis +2, Cha +0
Hit Points 8
Skill Intimidation
Senses low-light vision
Speed 25 feet, climb 25 feet
Support Benefit Your ape threatens your foes with menacing
growls. Until the start of your next turn, if you hit and
deal damage to a creature in your ape’s reach, the creature
becomes frightened 1.
Advanced Maneuver Frightening Display
FRIGHTENING DISPLAY [one-action]
Your ape makes a loud and frightening display, throwing a foe off
balance. The ape attempts to Demoralize the target creature; this
display gains the visual trait and doesn’t require language. While
frightened by this ability, the target is flat-footed to your ape.
ARBOREAL SAPLING
UNCOMMON
Access You are a member of the leaf order.
Your companion is a walking tree, a cousin of the great arboreal
wardens and regents. An arboreal sapling has the plant trait
instead of the animal trait, but it otherwise functions normally
as an animal companion. They are typically only selected by
animal order druids who are also members of the leaf order.
Size Small
Melee [one-action] branch, Damage 1d8 bludgeoning
Str +3, Dex +1, Con +2, Int –4, Wis +2, Cha +0
Hit Points 8
Skill Stealth
Senses low-light vision
Speed 25 feet
Support Benefit Your arboreal sapling plants roots around
your foe, impeding its movement. Until the start of your
next turn, if you hit and deal damage to a creature in your
arboreal sapling’s reach, the first square the creature moves
into after taking that damage is difficult terrain.
Advanced Maneuver Throw Rock
THROW ROCK [one-action]
The arboreal sapling Interacts to pick up a rock within reach or
retrieve a stowed rock, then throws it with a ranged rock Strike
that deals a base of 1d6 bludgeoning damage with a range
increment of 30 feet.
BAT
Your companion is a particularly large bat, such as a giant bat.
Size Small
Melee [one-action] jaws (finesse), Damage 1d6 piercing
Melee [one-action] wing (agile, finesse), Damage 1d4 slashing
Str +2, Dex +3, Con +2, Int –4, Wis +1, Cha +0
Hit Points 6
Skill Stealth
Senses echolocation 20 feet (the bat can use hearing as a
precise sense within this range), low-light vision
Speed 15 feet, fly 30 feet
Support Benefit Your bat flaps around your foes’ arms and
faces, getting in the way of their attacks. Until the start
of your next turn, creatures in your bat’s reach that you
damage with Strikes take a –1 circumstance penalty to their
attack rolls.
Advanced Maneuver Wing Thrash
WING THRASH [two-actions]
The bat thrashes wildly with its wings, making wing Strikes
against up to three adjacent foes. Each attack counts toward
the bat’s multiple attack penalty, but the penalty only
increases after all the attacks have been made.
BOAR
Your companion is a boar or pig.
Size Small
Melee [one-action] tusk, Damage 1d8 piercing
Str +3, Dex +1, Con +2, Int –4, Wis +2, Cha +0
Hit Points 8
Skill Survival
Senses low-light vision, scent (imprecise) 30 feet
Speed 35 feet
Support Benefit Your boar gores your foes. Until the start
of your next turn, your Strikes that damage a creature in
your boar’s reach also deal 1d6 persistent bleed damage. If
your boar is nimble or savage, the persistent bleed damage
increases to 2d6.
Advanced Maneuver Boar Charge
BOAR CHARGE [two-actions]
The boar Strides twice in a straight line and then makes a
tusk Strike. As long as it moved at least 20 feet, it gains a +2
circumstance bonus to its attack roll.
CROCODILE
Your companion is a crocodile or a similar crocodilian reptile,
such as an alligator or caiman.
ANIMAL COMPANIONS
The following companions are available to loyally serve your character, just like the animal
companions from the Core Rulebook. Some of these companions, like the riding drake, aren’t
technically animals, but they have a similar intelligence. Except where otherwise specified,
the creatures presented below use the rules starting on page 214 of the Core Rulebook.
Advanced Player's Guide
144
144
