Duskwalker
The first duskwalkers manifested as the result of a bargain
between two powerful psychopomps, the immortal
guardians and guides of souls after death. One believed
that certain souls who helped preserve the cycle of life
and death but had their own lives cut short deserved
reincarnation, while the other felt this would too greatly
violate that same cycle. In the end, the duskwalkers rose
from a concession between the two that allowed such
rebirths to occur but limited their frequency—only a finite
number of duskwalkers ever exist at any one point in time.
When they were first created by psychopomps,
duskwalkers were expected to perform roles that would
serve the goddess of death, Pharasma, and by extension
her realm, the Boneyard. But now duskwalkers have
found themselves with more freedom of choice and
after a century, have only now come to terms with the
fact that their destinies are their own to choose. As they
are created, not born, most duskwalkers either struggle
to integrate with society or seek out communities and
organizations to serve as a surrogate family.
Duskwalkers have an inherent understanding of the
cycle of life and death. In most cases this manifests as
a deep respect for that cycle and pushes the duskwalker
toward occupations that help them to protect it, such as
hunters of the undead, midwives, morticians, and priests.
If you want a character who has a mysterious
background, seeks a society or organization to
join, or looks to fight against undead, you should
play a duskwalker.
YOU MIGHT...
• Seek out opportunities to form strong friendships
with a diverse array of companions.
• Become focused on preventing the spread of undeath.
• Be intrigued at finding your identity in a previous life.
OTHERS PROBABLY...
• Assume you’re a necromancer or have some other
strange interest in death or the dead.
• Want to know if you remember your past life or ask
you about the secrets of death or the afterlife.
PHYSICAL DESCRIPTION
As a reincarnated soul, a duskwalker retains many of the
physical traits they possessed in their previous life and is a
member of that ancestry, though as a duskwalker they have
distinctive ash-gray or dark blue skin. However, sometimes
a duskwalker forms from an unusual creature, like a
dragon. These duskwalkers appear to be of a humanoid
ancestry, but have features like draconic scales or horns.
When a duskwalker perishes and faces final judgment,
a new one incarnates within a year from a deserving soul,
typically somewhere far from the previous duskwalker’s
birthplace. Duskwalkers manifest in locations with
a sanctified connection to death, such as graveyards
or temples, and begin their lives at adolescence. No
duskwalker is capable of bearing or siring biological
children, but this doesn’t prevent them from establishing
families, typically through adoption.
SOCIETY
It’s not uncommon for a duskwalker to go their entire
life without encountering another of their kind. Despite
their overall rarity, duskwalkers are likely to become
adventurers, both due to the strange conditions of their
creation and common feelings of social isolation.
Ancestries & Backgrounds
1
37
37
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Archetypes
Feats
Spells
items
glossary
& index
