FUNGAL INFESTATION
SPELL 2
CONJURATION
Traditions primal
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal
Range touch; Area 15-foot cone
Saving Throw Fortitude
Toxic spores swarm over creatures in the area, causing them
to erupt in grotesque fungal growths. These noxious growths
deal 2d6 persistent poison damage, and each creature must
attempt a Fortitude save.
Critical Success The creature is unaffected.
Success The target takes half the persistent poison damage.
Failure The target takes the full persistent poison damage.
While it is taking this persistent poison damage, it has
weakness 1 to fire and weakness 1 to slashing.
Critical Failure As failure, but double the persistent poison
damage. While it is taking this persistent poison damage, it
has weakness 2 to fire and weakness 2 to slashing.
Heightened (+2) The persistent damage increases by 2d6, and
the weakness increases by 1, or by 2 on a critical failure.
GHOSTLY TRAGEDY
SPELL 4
UNCOMMON
DIVINATION
Traditions divine, occult
Cast (1 minute) material, somatic, verbal
Area 60-foot emanation
Duration 10 minutes
This spell compels local spirits to reenact a violent event of
the recent past that you’re aware of and name as you Cast the
Spell. You take the role of the primary victim. The reenactment
plays out the final 9 minutes leading up to the death or injury
of the victim and the minute after their death or injury. The
spirits don’t change form, so this doesn’t help determine
perpetrators by their look. Spiritual forms of missing creatures
necessary for the event manifest as needed, and missing items
appear as shadowy outlines.
Once the scene ends, you take 2d6 negative damage
for each ghostly apparition that participated in the scene
(typically equal to the number of creatures involved other
than the victim). Any creature that observed the ghostly
recreation, including you, can attempt checks to investigate
the event to discover new clues and information.
GRISLY GROWTHS
SPELL 5
TRANSMUTATION
Traditions arcane, primal
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal
Range 60 feet; Targets 1 corporeal creature
Saving Throw basic Fortitude
This gruesome spell causes the target to grow excess limbs
and organs, whether it be fingers multiplying until hands
resemble bushes, eyes popping open in bizarre places, legs
sprouting from the side of the body, or some other result.
The target takes 10d6 piercing damage (basic Fortitude
save) as the new features erupt. This spell has no effect on
a target with a mutable anatomy or no limbs, such as an
ooze or a protean. The growths rot rapidly and fall away
after 1 round.
In addition, unless the initial target critically succeeds,
creatures within 30 feet of the target, including the target,
must attempt Will saves, after which they are temporarily
immune to this secondary effect of grisly growths for 1 hour.
This additional effect is a mental and visual effect.
Success The creature is unaffected.
Failure The creature is sickened 1.
Critical Failure The character is sickened 2.
Heightened (+1) The damage increases by 2d6.
HEAT METAL
SPELL 2
EVOCATION
FIRE
Traditions arcane, primal
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal
Range 30 feet; Targets 1 metal item or metal creature
This spell heats the targeted metal to become red-hot for a
moment. This is usually harmless to an unattended metal item,
which doesn’t get a saving throw, though the GM might rule
that flammable materials connected to the object catch fire
or melt. If you target an item worn or carried by a creature,
or you target a creature made primarily of metal, the heat
deals 4d6 fire damage and 2d4 persistent fire damage to the
creature, which must attempt a Reflex saving throw.
If you target an item held by the creature, the creature
can Release the item to improve their degree of success by
one step from the result of their saving throw. The persistent
damage is associated with the object and damages whichever
creature is holding or wearing it. It has no effect if no one is
holding the item, but you continue to attempt flat checks to
end the persistent damage as normal, since the item remains
hot and can sear someone who picks it up.
Critical Success The creature is unaffected.
Success The creature takes half damage and the object deals
no persistent fire damage.
Failure The creature takes full damage and the object deals
full persistent damage.
Critical Failure As failure, but the creature takes double
damage and the object deals double persistent damage.
Heightened (+1) The initial damage increases by 2d6 and the
persistent damage increases by 1d4.
ICE STORM
SPELL 4
COLD
EVOCATION
Traditions arcane, primal
Cast [three-actions] material, somatic, verbal
Range 120 feet; Area 5-foot burst
Saving Throw basic Reflex; Duration 1 minute
You create a gray storm cloud that pelts creatures with an
icy deluge. When you Cast the Spell, a burst of magical hail
deals 2d8 bludgeoning damage and 2d8 cold damage to each
creature in the area below the cloud (basic Reflex save). Snow
and sleet continue to rain down in the area for the remainder
of the spell’s duration, making the area difficult terrain,
causing creatures in the storm to be concealed, and making
Advanced Player's Guide
220
220
