CHAPTER 6: ITEMS
The investigator’s trusty detective kit, a swashbuckler’s flashy dueling cape, and a witch’s
effervescent cauldron are nearly as iconic as the characters who use them. For any hero,
the gear and treasure they wield and collect throughout their adventures can play as
important a role as any other facet of their character, from weapons steeped in cultural
history to fantastic treasures of unparalleled worth!
This chapter presents a variety of brand-new equipment and treasure that
expands on and supplements the options provided in Chapter 6: Equipment
and Chapter 11: Crafting & Treasure of the Core Rulebook. In particular,
the gear that follows is especially suitable for the new ancestries and classes
presented in this book, but the multitude of new items can enhance and
enrich all types of characters.
As it combines material from two chapters of the Core Rulebook, this
chapter is divided into the following sections.
Weapons and Adventuring Gear
New weapons and adventuring gear begin on page 248. This section includes
class kits for the new classes presented in this book, so you can quickly
equip a new character with the armor, weapons, and gear they’ll need to
start adventuring! The full rules for weapons and adventuring gear appear in
Chapter 6 of the Core Rulebook.
Crafting and Treasure
The second portion of this chapter consists of a catalog of new alchemical
items, snares, and both consumable and permanent magic items, including
runes. Table 6–4: Treasure by Level, on pages 250–251, presents all the
new items appearing in this book. These tables are organized by level and
item category (see the Item Categories margin note) to help you find the
appropriate gear for your character or adventure.
ALCHEMICAL ITEMS
Alchemical items are consumable, non-magical items that rely on the properties
of volatile alchemical reagents to produce their effects. Rules for alchemical
items, including the rules for bombs, elixirs, and poisons, begin on page 543
of the Core Rulebook. The alchemical items in this book are presented by level
on Table 6–5: Alchemical Items by Level, as a reference for alchemists and
other characters with alchemical abilities.
SNARES
Snares are small, simple traps to damage or hamper your foes that you can
create and deploy quickly enough to utilize on a battlefield. Snares are non-
magical consumable items. The full rules for creating and using snares are on
page 589 of the Core Rulebook.
MAGIC ITEMS
The remainder of this chapter contains the descriptions of dozens of new magic
items. These items are divided into two subcategories for ease of reference:
consumable magic items, including ammunition, oils, potions, and talismans,
begin on page 256. Permanent items, beginning on page 260, consist of armor,
held items, runes, shields, staves, wands, weapons, and worn items.
Items are organized alphabetically within each section. Rules for activating
and investing items, for sustaining and dismissing activations, and for reading
an item’s stat block begin on page 531 of the Core Rulebook.
ITEM CATEGORIES
Items in this chapter are grouped into
the following categories.
• Weapons and Adventuring Gear
(page 248) details new non-magical
weapons and equipment suitable
for ancestries, classes, and other
options presented in this book.
• Alchemical Items (page 252)
consists of bombs, elixirs
(including mutagens), poisons, and
alchemical tools.
• Snares (page 256) are simple,
single-use traps.
• Consumable Magic Items (page 256)
contains ammunition, oils, potions,
talismans, and other single-use
magical items.
• Permanent Magic Items and Runes
(page 260) provide new armor, held
items, runes, shields, staves, wands,
weapons, and worn items.
Items
6
247
247
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Archetypes
Feats
Spells
items
glossary
& Index
