MANY ANCESTRIES
Though a character can have only one
heritage, it doesn’t mean characters
with lineages tracing back to multiple
ancestries or heritages don’t exist.
It’s certainly possible for a dhampir
to be born to a half-elf mother, or
for a duskwalker to appear in a
community of death warden dwarves.
In these cases, the influence of the
versatile heritage overshadows the
other heritage—the dhampir heritage
overshadows the half-elf heritage, and
the duskwalker abilities replace those
of the death warden dwarf heritage. So
while, superficially, a character might
bear a resemblance to both heritages,
mechanically, they only gain the
benefits of the versatile heritage.
SUPERNATURAL ORIGINS
The circumstances that give rise to
individuals with versatile heritages
vary widely, from direct biological
descendance to clandestine rituals,
planar incursions, or unique mystical
phenomena. It’s up to you to decide
the details of your character’s heritage
and how they came into being. The
sections in this book provide some
broad suggestions that you can use as
a jumping-off point, but these aren’t
restrictions. Hags, for example, typically
give birth to mammalian offspring,
but they are devious creatures and
might just as easily change form to
that of a kobold long enough to hatch a
changeling kobold child—or perhaps your
changeling character arose as a result
of a hag’s occult meddling rather than
direct lineage. It’s your story to tell!
In This Book
This book includes the rules for five versatile heritages, including three
planar scions.
CHANGELING
Children of the malevolent, magical crones known as hags, changelings share
some of their mothers’ abilities, such as sharp claws and occult magic. Many
changelings experience or dread the psychic summons of their hag mothers,
known as the Call, urging them to seek out their mothers so they might be
transformed into hags themselves.
Changeling lineages affect the appearance of one of the changeling’s eyes,
and are as follows: brine may for the child of a sea hag, callow may for a green
hag, dream may for a night hag, and slag may for an annis hag.
DHAMPIR
The mortal offspring of undead vampires are caught between life and
undeath, mortality and immortality, mundane existence and powerful magic.
Dhampirs enjoy long life spans and otherworldly charm, but their ghostly
pallor and the nature of their parentage make their lives in humanoid
societies difficult.
The two lineages for dhampirs found here are the svetocher, who come
from the most common vampires called the moroi, and the straveika, born
of the aged and unsettling nosferatu.
PLANAR SCIONS
Life is present everywhere across the planes of the Great Beyond, and the
intermingling of Material Plane mortals and extraplanar beings is no rare thing.
The resultant children of these relationships—and sometimes the descendants
of those children—are known as planar scions. There are numerous types of
planar scions, just as there are countless types of beings across the planes that
might consort with mortals. This book focuses on the following three.
aaSimar
These planar scions bear the blood of celestial beings—angels, archons, azatas,
and other benevolent extraplanar entities. Though this grants aasimars certain
abilities and characteristics, it also places tremendous pressure upon them to
meet expectations due to the assumptions others hold of their heritage.
Aasimar lineages found here include the angelkin, the lawbringers who
come from archons, and the musetouched born of azatas.
DuSkwalker
A duskwalker isn’t born; they are instead created, each manifesting as a mortal
child in a location with close ties to death. They embody the somber powers
of the psychopomps, immortal guardians and shepherds of the dead, and they
maintain a fascination with and deep understanding of death throughout their
lives. More singular than other versatile heritages, duskwalkers don’t have
different lineages.
TiefliNg
The influence of fiendish blood or energy gives rise to tieflings. A tiefling’s
heritage is boon and bane, as none can contest the powers they command,
but few communities are willing to overlook the physical features that
accompany fiendish blood—horns, hoofed feet, and tails being but a
few examples.
The lineages for tieflings in this book are hellspawn born of devils, pitborn
made with the influence of demons, and the grimspawn of daemonic origin.
Ancestries & Backgrounds
1
29
29
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Archetypes
Feats
Spells
items
glossary
& index
