You can heal your animal companion’s wounds. You can cast
heal animal as a beastmaster focus spell (Core Rulebook 399).
Increase the number of Focus Points in your focus pool by 1.
MATURE BEASTMASTER COMPANION
FEAT 4
ARCHETYPE
Prerequisites Beastmaster Dedication
All of your animal companions grow up, becoming mature
animal companions and gaining additional capabilities (Core
Rulebook 214). During an encounter, even if you don’t use the
Command an Animal action, your animal companion can still
use 1 action on your turn to either Stride or Strike.
BEASTMASTER’S TRANCE
FEAT 6
ARCHETYPE
Prerequisites Beastmaster Dedication
You can enter a trance that allows you to briefly inhabit the
body of one of your animal companions and share its senses.
You gain the focus spell beastmaster trance (page 157).
Increase the number of Focus Points in your focus pool by 1.
INCREDIBLE BEASTMASTER COMPANION
FEAT 8
ARCHETYPE
Prerequisites Mature Beastmaster Companion
Your mature animal companions continue to grow and develop.
They each become nimble or savage animal companions (your
choice, choose for each companion, including those that become
mature after you take this feat), gaining additional capabilities
determined by the type of companion (Core Rulebook 214).
BEASTMASTER BOND
FEAT 10
ARCHETYPE
DIVINATION
MENTAL
PRIMAL
Prerequisites Beastmaster Dedication
Beastmaster
You attract the loyalty of animals, and as your powers
increase you can command more of them, briefly inhabit
their body to perceive what they perceive, and even
communicate with them over vast distances. Your animals
may see you as a beloved parent, teacher, and mentor, or
they may consider you a poor, defenseless cub that needs
protection. Regardless, they will fight for you and alongside
you, even sacrificing their lives for you if necessary.
Additional Feats: 4th Magic Hide (page 132), Wild
Empathy (Core Rulebook 172); 6th Companion’s Cry
(Core Rulebook 172); 10th Enlarge Companion (page
132); 14th Side by Side (Core Rulebook 175). Warden
spells granted by these feats are beastmaster focus spells
for you.
BEASTMASTER DEDICATION
FEAT 2
ARCHETYPE
DEDICATION
Prerequisites trained in Nature
You gain the service of a young animal companion that travels
with you and obeys your commands. The rules for animal
companions appear on page 214 of the Core Rulebook, with
additions on page 144 of this book. Contrary to the usual rules
for animal companions, this feat can grant you a second animal
companion. If you ever have more than one animal companion,
you gain the Call Companion action. See the Beastmaster
Animal Companions sidebar for details on this action.
Certain beastmaster feats give you primal focus spells. The
rules for focus spells appear on page 300 of the Core Rulebook.
When you gain your first beastmaster focus spell, you
become trained in primal spell attack rolls and spell DCs, and
your spellcasting ability for these spells is Charisma. Feats
that grant beastmaster focus spells tell you to increase the
number of Focus Points in your pool, but if you don’t already
have a focus pool, you instead get a focus pool with 1 Focus
Point. You can Refocus by grooming, feeding, playing with, or
otherwise tending to an animal companion.
Special You can’t select another dedication feat until you
have gained two other feats from the beastmaster archetype.
ADDITIONAL COMPANION
FEAT 4
ARCHETYPE
Prerequisites Beastmaster Dedication
Another animal joins you in your travels. It is a young animal
companion that has the minion trait. See Beastmaster
Animal Companions for rules on how having multiple animal
companions works.
Special You can select this feat more than once, gaining
an additional animal companion each time, to a maximum
of four total companions (including the one you gained from
Beastmaster Dedication and possibly one you gained from
sources other than the beastmaster archetype).
HEAL ANIMAL
FEAT 4
ARCHETYPE
Prerequisites Beastmaster Dedication
BEASTMASTER ANIMAL COMPANIONS
If you’re playing a beastmaster, you determine the statistics
and abilities of your animal companions according to
the rules on pages 214–217 of the Core Rulebook. As a
beastmaster, it’s possible for you to have more than one
animal companion at one time—up to four companions—but
only one of those companions, your “active companion,”
follows you during exploration and in encounters; the rest
are nearby, usually foraging or hunting for food. As soon as
you gain a second animal companion from the Beastmaster
archetype, you also gain Call Companion to switch your
active companion. These rules apply to all your companions,
regardless of whether you got the animal companion from
the beastmaster archetype or from another source.
CALL COMPANION
EXPLORATION
You spend 1 minute calling for a different animal
companion, switching your active companion for another
of your animal companions.
Advanced Player's Guide
160
160
