adjust the normal effects of your Feint no longer apply. You can
choose whether to use the Goading Feint benefits or the normal
benefits each time you Feint a given foe.
Critical Success The target takes a –2 circumstance penalty to
all attack rolls against you before the end of its next turn.
Success The target takes a –2 circumstance penalty to its next
attack roll against you before the end of its next turn.
NIMBLE DODGE [reaction]
FEAT 1
SWASHBUCKLER
Trigger A creature you can see targets you with an attack.
Requirements You aren’t encumbered.
You deftly dodge out of the way, gaining a +2 circumstance
bonus to AC against the triggering attack.
ONE FOR ALL [one-action]
FEAT 1
AUDITORY
CONCENTRATE
EMOTION
LINGUISTIC
MENTAL
SWASHBUCKLER
Prerequisites trained in Diplomacy
With precisely the right words of encouragement, you bolster
an ally’s efforts. Designate an ally within 30 feet; this action
counts as sufficient preparation to Aid that ally. When you use
the Aid reaction to help that ally, you can roll Diplomacy in place
of the usual check. If your swashbuckler’s style is wit and your
Diplomacy check to Aid meets or exceeds the very hard DC for
your level, you gain panache.
YOU’RE NEXT [reaction]
FEAT 1
EMOTION
FEAR
MENTAL
SWASHBUCKLER
Prerequisites trained in Intimidation
Trigger You reduce an enemy to 0 Hit Points.
After downing a foe, you promise another you’re coming after
them next. Attempt an Intimidation check with a +2 circumstance
bonus to Demoralize a single creature that you can see and that
can see you. If you’re legendary in Intimidation, you can use this
as a free action with the same trigger.
2ND LEVEL
AFTER YOU [free-action]
FEAT 2
SWASHBUCKLER
Trigger You’re about to roll initiative.
You allow your foes to make the first move in a show of
incredible confidence. You don’t roll initiative; instead you
voluntarily go last. You gain panache. If more than one
character uses this ability or another ability to go last, use
the normal rules for resolving a tie: NPCs and monsters
act before PCs, and within those groups, the creatures can
choose whichever order they want.
ANTAGONIZE
FEAT 2
SWASHBUCKLER
Your taunts and threats earn your foes ire. When you
successfully Demoralize a creature, its frightened condition
can’t decrease to less than 1 at the end of its turn until it either
uses a hostile action against you or can no longer observe or
sense you for at least 1 round.
1ST LEVEL
BUCKLER EXPERTISE
FEAT 1
SWASHBUCKLER
You’ve learned a flexible way to position your buckler to provide
more protection. When you Raise a Shield to gain a circumstance
bonus to AC from a buckler, increase the bonus from +1 to +2.
DISARMING FLAIR
FEAT 1
SWASHBUCKLER
It’s harder for your foes to regain their grip when you knock
their weapon partially out of their hands. When you succeed
at an Athletics check to Disarm, the circumstance bonus and
penalty from Disarm last until the end of your next turn, instead
of until the beginning of the target’s next turn. The target can
use an Interact action to adjust their grip and remove this effect.
If your swashbuckler’s style is gymnast and you succeed at
your Athletics check to Disarm a foe, you gain panache.
DUELING PARRY [one-action]
FEAT 1
SWASHBUCKLER
Requirements You are wielding only a single one-handed melee
weapon and have your other hand or hands free.
You can parry attacks against you with your weapon. You gain
a +2 circumstance bonus to AC until the start of your next turn
as long as you continue to meet the requirements.
FLYING BLADE
FEAT 1
SWASHBUCKLER
Prerequisites precise strike
You’ve learned to apply your flashy techniques to thrown
weapons as easily as melee attacks. When you have panache,
you apply your precise strike damage on ranged Strikes you
make with a thrown weapon within that weapon’s first range
increment. The thrown weapon must be an agile or finesse
weapon. This also allows you to make a thrown weapon ranged
Strike for Confident Finisher and any other finisher that includes
a Strike that can benefit from your precise strike.
FOCUSED FASCINATION
FEAT 1
SWASHBUCKLER
Prerequisites Fascinating Performance
When you use Fascinating Performance in a combat encounter,
you need only a success, rather than a critical success, to
fascinate your target. This works only if you’re attempting
to fascinate one target. For example, if you were an expert in
Performance, you could choose to target multiple creatures
normally or target one creature and fascinate it on a success.
GOADING FEINT
FEAT 1
SWASHBUCKLER
Prerequisites trained in Deception
When you trick a foe, you can goad them into overextending
their next attack. On a Feint, you can use the following success
and critical success effects instead of any other effects you
would gain when you Feint; if you do, other abilities that
Advanced Player's Guide
88
88
