Assassin
Targeted killing through stealth and subterfuge is the
expertise of an assassin. While assassins are skilled in
ending lives and many are evil, some live by a moral code,
preying on the wicked, the cruel, or those who revel in
unchecked aggression or power.
Additional Feats: 4th Poison Resistance (Core Rulebook
77); 6th Poison Weapon (Core Rulebook 185), Sneak
Attacker (Core Rulebook 229); 10th Improved Poison
Weapon (Core Rulebook 187)
ASSASSIN DEDICATION
FEAT 2
ARCHETYPE
DEDICATION
Prerequisites Alchemical Crafting; trained in Crafting, Deception,
and Stealth
You’ve trained to assassinate your foes, and you do so with
tenacity and precision. You gain the Mark for Death activity.
Mark for Death [three-actions] Requirements You can see and hear the
creature you intend to mark; Effect You designate a single
creature as your mark. This lasts until the mark dies or you
use Mark for Death again. You gain a +2 circumstance bonus
to Perception checks to Seek your mark and on Deception
checks to Feint against your mark. Your agile and finesse
weapons and unarmed attacks gain the backstabber and
deadly d6 weapon traits when you’re attacking your mark.
If the weapon or unarmed attack already has the deadly
trait, increase the size of the deadly damage die by one step
instead of giving it deadly d6.
Special You can’t select another dedication feat until you’ve
gained two other feats from the assassin archetype.
EXPERT BACKSTABBER
FEAT 4
ARCHETYPE
Prerequisites Assassin Dedication
When you Strike a flat-footed foe with a weapon
that has the backstabber weapon trait, you deal 2
extra precision damage instead of 1. If the weapon
is a +3 weapon, you deal 4 extra precision damage
instead of 2.
SURPRISE ATTACK
FEAT 4
ARCHETYPE
Prerequisites Assassin Dedication
You act before foes can react. On the first round of combat,
if you roll Deception or Stealth for initiative, creatures that
haven’t acted are flat-footed to you.
ANGEL OF DEATH
FEAT 10
ARCHETYPE
Prerequisites Assassin Dedication
All your Strikes against a creature you have Marked for
Death have the death trait, causing the mark to be instantly
killed when reduced to 0 Hit Points. When killed in this way,
attempts to communicate with it, return it to life, turn it into
an undead, or otherwise disturb its afterlife fail unless the
effect’s counteract level is higher than half your level when
you killed the creature (rounded up), or originates from an
artifact or a deity.
ASSASSINATE [two-actions]
FEAT 12
ARCHETYPE
Prerequisites Assassin Dedication
Requirements You have designated a mark using Mark for
Assassination and are completely unnoticed by your mark.
You strike with one swift movement, trying to instantly slay
your mark. Make a Strike against your mark. If you hit, your
mark takes 6d6 extra precision damage with a basic Fortitude
save against your class DC or spell DC, whichever is higher.
If the mark critically fails, they die. This is an incapacitation
effect. The creature then becomes temporarily immune to your
Assassinate for 1 day.
Advanced Player's Guide
158
158
