6TH LEVEL
ALIGN KI [reaction]
LEVEL 6
MONK
Prerequisites ki spells
Frequency once per hour
Trigger You Cast a Spell that has the monk trait.
The power of your ki soothes your wounds and energizes you
for battle. You regain Hit Points equal to your level plus your
Wisdom modifier.
GORILLA POUND [one-action]
LEVEL 6
EMOTION
FLOURISH
MENTAL
MONK
Prerequisites expert in Intimidation, Gorilla Stance
Requirements You are in Gorilla Stance.
You pound your chest before slamming into your foes.
Attempt an Intimidation check to Demoralize, then
make one gorilla slam Strike against the same target.
If your Strike hits, you gain a circumstance bonus to
the damage roll equal to triple the value of the target’s
frightened condition.
Special If you have this feat, while you are in Gorilla
Stance, you gain a climb Speed of 15 feet.
ONE-INCH PUNCH [two-actions] OR [three-actions]
LEVEL 6
MONK
Prerequisites expert strikes
You put all your force into a single mighty, carefully
controlled blow. Make an unarmed Strike. If you spend two
actions and this Strike hits, you deal an extra die of weapon
damage. You can instead spend 3 actions to perform an even
more powerful attack, dealing a second additional die of
weapon damage on a hit.
If you’re at least 10th level, the number of additional dice
you add from this feat doubles, for a total of 2 additional
dice if you spend 2 actions or 4 additional dice if you spend 3
actions. If you’re at least 18th level, the number of additional
dice you add from this feat triples, for a total of 3 additional
dice if you spend 2 actions or 6 additional dice if you spend
3 actions.
RETURN FIRE
FEAT 6
MONK
Prerequisites Deflect Arrow, Monastic Archer Stance
Requirements You are in Monastic Archer Stance, are wielding
a bow, and have a free hand.
Snatching an arrow out of the air, you instantly put it to
your bow and return fire. When you successfully Deflect an
Arrow, as part of that reaction you can immediately make
a ranged bow Strike by firing the arrow you deflected from
your own bow.
STUMBLING FEINT
LEVEL 6
MONK
Prerequisites expert in Deception, Stumbling Stance
Requirements You are in Stumbling Stance.
You lash out confusingly with what seems to be a weak move
but instead allows you to unleash a dangerous flurry of blows
upon your unsuspecting foe. When you use Flurry of Blows,
you can attempt a check to Feint as a free action just before
the first Strike. On a success, instead of making the target
flat-footed against your next attack, they become flat-footed
against both attacks from the Flurry of Blows.
8TH LEVEL
CLINGING SHADOWS INITIATE
FEAT 8
MONK
Prerequisites ki spells
You learn a mystical stance that transforms your ki into sticky
smoke that shrouds your limbs, clinging to everything you
touch. You gain the clinging shadows stance ki spell (page
229). Increase the number of Focus Points in your focus pool
by 1. While entering the stance uses a ki spell, the shadow
grasp attacks it grants are not, so you can use them as often
as you like while in the stance.
PINNING FIRE [free-action]
FEAT 8
MONK
Trigger You use Flurry of Blows to make two ranged piercing
weapon Strikes against the same target.
You target your opponent’s clothing, equipment, or loose
flesh with piercing projectiles to pin them to the ground or
a nearby surface. If both your attacks hit, the target must
succeed at a Reflex save against your class DC or become
immobilized until it or an adjacent creature succeeds at a
DC 10 Athletics check to remove the pinning projectiles. The
creature doesn’t become stuck if it is incorporeal, is liquid
(like a water elemental or some oozes), or could otherwise
escape without effort.
10TH LEVEL
COBRA ENVENOM [one-action]
LEVEL 10
MONK
POISON
Prerequisites Cobra Stance, expert in unarmed attacks
Frequency once per minute
Requirements You are in Cobra Stance.
You lash out with devious intent and the power to envenom
your foe. Make a cobra fang Strike. Your reach with this
Strike is 5 feet greater than normal. If this Strike hits, the
target takes 1d4 persistent poison damage per weapon
damage die.
Special If you have this feat, the circumstance bonus to
Fortitude saves and Fortitude DC granted by Cobra Stance
increases from +1 to +2.
PEAFOWL STRUT [one-action]
LEVEL 10
FLOURISH
MONK
Prerequisites Peafowl Stance
Requirements You are in Peafowl Stance.
You slowly move across the battlefield with dangerous grace.
Classes
2
129
129
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Archetypes
Feats
Spells
items
glossary
& index
