decrease the Hit Points lost in any way. As usual for altering
components, this has no effect on the number of actions
required to Cast the Spell, and your Cast a Spell activity
gains the concentrate trait but not the manipulate trait. You
can’t use blood components to replace any required part of
a spell’s cost.
GREATER PHYSICAL EVOLUTION
FEAT 12
SORCERER
Prerequisites Arcane Evolution or Primal Evolution
You hold a deep understanding of the innate fundamental
structures of the physical world, and you can enforce
your will upon that structure as far as your own blood is
concerned. Once per day, you can use a sorcerer spell slot
to cast any common polymorph battle form spell of the spell
slot’s level as if it were a signature spell in your repertoire.
If you have Arcane Evolution, you can also choose from
any battle form spell in your spellbook. If you have Primal
Evolution, you can Cast a Spell listed in that feat using
the extra spell slot the feat grants (instead of a sorcerer
spell slot).
GREATER SPIRITUAL EVOLUTION
FEAT 12
SORCERER
Prerequisites Divine Evolution or Occult Evolution
Your magical blood is rich with spiritual essence, and this
infusion within you allows your spells to be fully effective
against incorporeal creatures, spirits, and creatures on the
Ethereal Plane. Your spells have the effects of a ghost touch
property rune. They can target or affect a creature projecting
its consciousness (such as via project image) or possessing
another creature, even if its body is elsewhere, though you
must know about the possession or projection and choose
to do so. Your spells can affect creatures on the Ethereal
Plane, though this doesn’t grant you any particular ability
to locate them.
14TH LEVEL
CONSUME SPELL
FEAT 14
SORCERER
Prerequisites Counterspell
When you successfully Counterspell a spell of the tradition
that matches your bloodline, you consume it, replenishing
yourself with its energy. When you do, you are nourished as
if you had eaten a meal and regain Hit Points equal to twice
the level of the counteracted spell.
SPELL SHROUD [one-action]
FEAT 14
CONCENTRATE
METAMAGIC
SORCERER
Your spell shrouds you in a billowing cloud. If your next
action is to Cast a Spell that targets you, you surround
yourself in a 15-foot emanation of dense magical mist that
lasts until the start of your next turn. All creatures within
the cloud become concealed, and all creatures outside the
cloud are concealed to creatures within it.
16TH LEVEL
SCINTILLATING SPELL [one-action]
FEAT 16
CONCENTRATE
LIGHT
METAMAGIC
SORCERER
Your spells become a radiant display of light and color. If your
next action is to Cast a Spell that doesn’t have the darkness
trait, has no duration, and requires creatures to attempt a
Reflex save, the spell explodes in a spray of scintillating lights,
in addition to its other effects. Each creature that failed its
Reflex save against the spell is dazzled for 1 round, and those
who critically failed are instead blinded for 1 round.
TERRAFORMING SPELL [one-action]
 FEAT 16
CONCENTRATE
EARTH
METAMAGIC
SORCERER
TRANSMUTATION
You capture transformative fragments of magic and slam
them into the ground, creating a shock wave that alters your
surroundings. If your next action is to Cast a non-cantrip
transmutation Spell, either each space adjacent to you
becomes difficult terrain, or each space adjacent to you is no
longer difficult terrain. This doesn’t have any effect on greater
difficult terrain and doesn’t remove the damaging effects of
hazardous terrain.
18TH LEVEL
ECHOING SPELL [one-action]
FEAT 18
CONCENTRATE
METAMAGIC
SORCERER
You time the components of your spell with exacting precision,
setting up a resonance that duplicates the spell’s effects. If
your next action is to Cast a Spell of 4th level or lower that has
no duration, the spell’s energy reverberates and echoes. You
can Cast the Spell a second time before the end of your next
turn without expending a spell slot.
20TH LEVEL
BLOODLINE MUTATION
FEAT 20
SORCERER
Prerequisites a bloodline based on a specific type of creature
You permanently mutate to become more like the creatures of
your bloodline. You gain the appropriate trait or traits for those
types of creatures (aberration for aberrant, angel and celestial
for angelic, psychopomp and monitor for psychopomp, and so
on). You gain low-light vision or darkvision, if one is appropriate
for creatures with those traits. Choose one of the following.
• If the creatures associated with your bloodline have the
ability to fly, you gain a fly Speed equal to your land Speed.
• If the creatures associated with your bloodline are
aquatic or amphibious, you become amphibious, able to
breathe water and air equally well, and you gain a swim
Speed equal to your Speed.
• If creatures associated with your bloodline have a
resistance or immunity to acid, cold, electricity, fire,
negative, or sonic, choose an energy type your bloodline
is immune or resistant to and gain resistance 20 against
that energy type.
Classes
2
141
141
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Archetypes
Feats
Spells
items
glossary
& index
