cursebound (trait) Spells with this trait increase the severity of your
oracular curse when cast. Usually only revelation spells have this
trait. You can’t cast a cursebound spell if you don’t have an oracular
curse. 77
darkness (trait) Darkness effects extinguish non-magical light in the
area and can counteract less powerful magical light. You must usually
target light magic with your darkness magic directly to counteract it,
but some darkness spells automatically attempt to counteract light.
deadly (weapon trait) On a critical hit, the weapon adds a weapon damage
die of the listed size. Roll this after doubling the weapon’s damage. This
increases to two dice if the weapon has a greater striking rune and
three dice if the weapon has a major striking rune.
death (trait) An effect with the death trait kills you immediately if it
reduces you to 0 HP. Some death effects can bring you closer to death
or slay you outright without reducing you to 0 HP. CR 461
debilitation Debilitations apply conditions and other negative effects to
a creature. When the creature is affected by a new debilitation, any
previous one it was affected by ends. CR 181
dedication (trait) You must select a feat with this trait to apply an
archetype to your character. CR 219
detection (trait) Effects with this trait attempt to determine the presence
or location of a person, object, or aura.
devil (trait) A family of fiends from Hell, most devils are irredeemably
lawful evil. They typically have greater darkvision, immunity to fire,
and telepathy.
dhampir (trait) A creature with this trait has the dhampir versatile
heritage. These humanoids are the immortal offspring of vampires and
members of other ancestries. 32–33
disarm (weapon trait) You can use this weapon to Disarm with the
Athletics skill even if you don’t have a free hand. This uses the weapon’s
reach (if different from your own) and adds the weapon’s item bonus
to attack rolls (if any) as an item bonus to the Athletics check. If you
critically fail a check to Disarm using the weapon, you can drop the
weapon to take the effects of a failure instead of a critical failure. On a
critical success, you still need a free hand if you want to take the item.
disease (trait) An effect with this trait applies one or more diseases. A
disease is typically an affliction. CR 457–458
Dismiss [one-action] (action) End a spell or magic item effect that can be dismissed.
CR 305, 534
divination (trait) The divination school of magic typically involves
obtaining or transferring information, or predicting events.
divine (trait) This magic comes from the divine tradition, drawing power
from deities or similar sources. Anything with this trait is magical.
CR 299
divine spell list 212, CR 309–311
domain CR 441
downtime (trait) An activity with this trait takes a day or more, and can
be used only during downtime. CR 481
dragon (trait) Dragons are reptilian creatures, often winged or with the
power of flight. Most are able to use a breath weapon and are immune
to sleep and paralysis.
druid (class) 124–125, CR 128–139

order spells CR 399–401

primal spell list 213, CR 314–315
druid (trait) This indicates abilities from the druid class.
duskwalker (trait) A creature with this trait has the duskwalker versatile
heritage. Duskwalkers are planar scions infused with the supernatural
energy of psychopomps. An ability with this trait can be used or
selected only by duskwalkers. 37–38
dwarf (trait) A creature with this trait is a member of the dwarf ancestry.
Dwarves are stout folk who often live underground and typically have
darkvision. An ability with this trait can be used or selected only by
dwarves. An item with this trait is created and used by dwarves. 42,
CR 34–37
earth (trait) Effects with the earth trait either manipulate or conjure earth.
Those that manipulate earth have no effect in an area without earth.
Creatures with this trait consist primarily of earth or have a magical
connection to that element.
electricity (trait) Effects with this trait deal electricity damage. A creature
with this trait has a magical connection to electricity.
elemental (trait) Elementals are creatures directly tied to an element and
native to the Elemental Planes. Elementals don’t need to breathe.
elf (trait) A creature with this trait is a member of the elf ancestry. Elves
are mysterious people with rich traditions of magic and scholarship
who typically have low-light vision. An ability with this trait can be
used or selected only by elves. A weapon with this trait is created and
used by elves. 43, CR 38–41
elixir (trait) Elixirs are alchemical liquids that are used by drinking them.
253–254, CR 546–550
emotion (trait) This effect alters a creature’s emotions. Effects with this
trait always have the mental trait as well. Creatures with special
training or that have mechanical or artificial intelligence are immune
to emotion effects.
enchantment (trait) Effects and magic items with this trait are associated
with the enchantment school of magic, typically involving mind
control, emotion alteration, and other mental effects.
energy (damage type) An umbrella category including acid, cold,
electricity, fire, force, negative, positive, and sonic damage. CR 452
evil (trait) Evil effects often manipulate energy from evil-aligned Outer
Planes and are antithetical to good divine servants or divine servants
of good deities. A creature with this trait is evil in alignment. An ability
with this trait can be selected or used only by evil creatures.
evocation (trait) Effects and magic items with this trait are associated
with the evocation school of magic, typically involving energy and
elemental forces.
expert spellcasting benefits These benefits are granted by spellcasting
archetypes. 150
exploration (trait) An activity with this trait takes more than a turn to use,
and can usually be used only during exploration mode. CR 234
extradimensional (trait) This effect or item creates an extradimensional
space.
An
extradimensional
effect
placed
inside
another
extradimensional space ceases to function until it is removed.
familiar A Tiny creature mystically bonded to you. 146–147, CR 217–218
fear (trait) Fear effects evoke the emotion of fear. Effects with this trait
always have the mental and emotion traits as well.
feat An ability you gain or select for your character due to their ancestry,
background, class, general training, or skill training. Some feats grant
special actions.

general feat 201–209

skill feat (general feat that improves skills) 201–209
fey (trait) Creatures of the First World are called the fey.
fiend (trait) Creatures that hail from or have a strong connection to the
evil-aligned planes are called fiends. Fiends can survive the basic
environmental effects of planes in the Outer Sphere.
fighter (class) 126–127, CR 140–153
fighter (trait) This indicates abilities from the fighter class.
finesse (weapon trait) You can use your Dexterity modifier instead of your
Strength modifier on attack rolls using this melee weapon. You still use
your Strength modifier when calculating damage.
finisher (trait) Finishers are spectacular finishing moves that use your
panache. You can use a finisher only if you have panache, and you
lose your panache immediately after performing a finisher. Once you
use a finisher, you can’t use any actions that have the attack trait for
the rest of your turn.
Some actions that have the finisher trait also grant an effect on a
failure. Effects added on a failure don’t apply on a critical failure. If
your finisher action succeeds, you can still choose to apply the failure
effect instead. For example, you might do this when an attack deals no
damage due to resistance. 87
fire (trait) Effects with the fire trait deal fire damage or either conjure or
manipulate fire. Those that manipulate fire have no effect in an area
without fire. Creatures with this trait consist primarily of fire or have a
magical connection to that element.
flourish (trait) Flourish actions are actions that require too much exertion
to perform a large number in a row. You can use only 1 action with the
flourish trait per turn.
Focus Point If you can cast focus spells, you have a pool of Focus Points
you can use to cast them. You regain a Focus Point using the Refocus
activity. CR 300
focus spell A type of spell, specific to a class, that can be cast using Focus
Points and is automatically heightened to half your level rounded up.
Focus spells always have a descriptive term such as “revelation spell”
or “warden spell.” 228–239, CR 300–302
force (trait) Effects with this trait deal force damage or create objects
made of pure magical force.
formula A recipe or instructions required to Craft an item. CR 293–294
fortune (trait) A fortune effect beneficially alters how you roll your dice.
You can never have more than one fortune effect alter a single roll. If
multiple fortune effects would apply, you have to pick which to use. If
a fortune effect and a misfortune effect would apply to the same roll,
the two cancel each other out, and you roll normally. CR 449
gear 248–49, CR 270–295
general (trait) A type of feat that any character can select, regardless
of ancestry and class, as long as they meet the prerequisites. You
can select a feat with this trait when your class grants a general
feat. CR 255
gnome (trait) A creature with this trait is a member of the gnome
ancestry. Gnomes are small people skilled at magic who seek out new
Glossary & Index
267
267
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Archetypes
Feats
Spells
items
glossary
& Index
