5TH LEVEL
BLESSED BLOOD
FEAT 5
AASIMAR
Your freshly spilled blood is sanctified, and ingesting it causes
effects similar to those of holy water (Core Rulebook 571).
Whenever a fiend, undead, or creature with a weakness to
good damage drinks your blood or deals piercing or slashing
damage to you with jaws, fangs, or a similar attack, that
creature takes 1d6 good damage. You gain a +4 circumstance
bonus to Crafting checks to Craft holy water using your own
blood as one of the ingredients.
CELESTIAL RESISTANCE
FEAT 5
AASIMAR
Your growing connection to your celestial forebears has
granted you one of their resistances as well. Choose one of
the following energy damage types: acid, cold, electricity, fire,
or sonic. You gain resistance 5 to that damage type.
Though you can choose any of these energy damage
types, the damage type typically matches a celestial
associated with your bloodline. For instance, an angelkin
might choose resistance to cold or fire with a cassisian
forebear, resistance to fire with a balisse forebear, or
resistance to sonic with a choral forebear.
EMPYREAL BLESSING
FEAT 5
AASIMAR
You can call forth a benediction upon your allies, whether you
pray to a deity of the celestial realms or just find the power
within yourself. You can cast bless once per day as a 1st-level
divine innate spell.
9TH LEVEL
ANGELIC MAGIC
FEAT 9
AASIMAR
Prerequisites Angelkin
You can tap into the magic of angels that runs through your
blood. You can cast humanoid form and remove fear each once
per day as 2nd-level divine innate spells.
ARCHON MAGIC
FEAT 9
AASIMAR
Prerequisites Lawbringer
You can tap into the heavenly magic that is your birthright.
You can cast continual flame and shield other each once per
day as 2nd-level divine innate spells.
AZATA MAGIC
FEAT 9
AASIMAR
Prerequisites Musetouched
Your lineage traces back to the realm of Elysium, and you
can harness its magic using this connection. You can cast
glitterdust and remove paralysis each once per day as
2nd-level divine innate spells.
CELESTIAL WINGS [two-actions]
FEAT 9
AASIMAR
DIVINE
MORPH
TRANSMUTATION
Frequency once per day
With effort, you can call forth magical wings from your back,
similar in appearance to those of your celestial forebears.
These wings remain for 10 minutes. You gain a fly Speed equal
to your Speed while you’ve manifested your wings.
DIVINE COUNTERMEASURES
FEAT 9
AASIMAR
You’ve studied your celestial heritage with the intent of better
defending yourself, and you’ve found that your techniques are
equally powerful against celestials, fiends, and other divine
entities. You gain a +1 circumstance bonus to all saving throws
against divine effects.
13TH LEVEL
AASIMAR’S MERCY
FEAT 13
AASIMAR
Your celestial powers allow you to remove lesser afflictions
with ease. Each day, you can cast two 4th-level divine innate
spells. You can choose from the following spells each time you
cast: remove curse, remove disease, and neutralize poison.
CELESTIAL STRIKES
FEAT 13
AASIMAR
Your connection to good arms all your attacks against forces
of evil. All your weapon and unarmed Strikes deal 1 additional
good damage and have the good and magical traits.
SUMMON CELESTIAL KIN
FEAT 13
AASIMAR
Prerequisites any aasimar lineage feat
You have a connection to the celestial realms, allowing you to
summon a celestial ally. Once per day, you can cast summon
celestial as a 5th-level divine innate spell, but the celestial
summoned must be from the same category as your own lineage,
such as a creature with the angel trait if you are angelkin.
17TH LEVEL
CELESTIAL WORD
FEAT 17
AASIMAR
You can call forth a holy word from the celestial realms to
punish your foes. Once per day, you can cast divine decree
as a 7th-level divine innate spell. You must choose good for
the spell’s alignment, and you can Cast the Spell regardless of
whether you worship a deity or what their alignment is.
ETERNAL WINGS
FEAT 17
AASIMAR
Prerequisites Celestial Wings
Your wings are now a permanent part of your body. You gain
the effects of Celestial Wings at all times, rather than just
once per day for 10 minutes.
Advanced Player's Guide
36
36
