Though a changeling generally resembles a member of their
father’s ancestry, their distinctive eyes—each a different
color—set them apart. One of their eyes matches that of
their father’s lineage, while the other matches the color of
their hag mother’s, often in an unnatural shade such as
violet or a vivid green. Not everyone with differently colored
eyes is a changeling, but this manifestation of changeling
heritage makes it difficult for them to hide their nature and
can lead to banishment from their community. As they come
of age, they manifest other characteristics from their mother,
including supernatural abilities. Darkvision, clawlike
fingernails, and innate magic are the most common, but
stranger abilities specific to the hag mother can also arise.
Changelings can be any gender, but women in particular
are vulnerable to the Call, a psychic influence that urges
them to abandon their mortal life, join the hag’s coven, and
eventually become a hag. Changelings who understand their
heritage often fear the Call and work to resist its pull. Those
who remain ignorant of their origin may find themselves
subject to a terrible compulsion without knowing why.
YOU MIGHT...
• Cherish and protect those friends and family
who accept you as you are.
• Seek to better understand your hag mother and the
gifts she gave you, for good or ill, or distance yourself
from your heritage.
• Fear the day you hear the Call and worry you might
not be able to resist—or perhaps you already fight to
resist it every day.
OTHERS PROBABLY...
• Assume you practice occult or primal magic, or that
you participate in a coven.
• Worry that you might secretly be a monster, or
become one, and turn on them.
•   Notice and speculate about your distinctive eyes.
CHANGELING (UNCOMMON HERITAGE)
Your mother was a hag. Your heterochromatic eyes
are the most obvious signifier of this parentage, but
you likely also have a slighter build, paler skin, and
darker hair than most members of your other parent’s
ancestry. You gain the changeling trait. You also
gain low-light vision, or you gain darkvision if your
ancestry already has low-light vision. You can select
from changeling feats and feats from your other
parent’s ancestry whenever you gain an ancestry feat.
Changeling Feats
The following feats are available to changeling
characters.
CHANGELING
Tales of children stolen away and replaced by monsters exist across countless cultures—
but the true monsters are the hag mothers of these strange children. After the hag seduces,
uses, and disposes of their father, the changeling child is usually abandoned in their
father’s community to be raised among them. Such a child faces no end of challenges,
often beginning life as an orphaned outsider.
Advanced Player's Guide
30
30
