example, a daily parade in the town square, complete with
marching band). You’re unable to alter the programs after you
create the facade.
You can disguise creatures as you please, with the same
effects as a 3rd-level illusory disguise. If a creature affected by
the facade leaves the area, any illusions affecting it fade after
1 day. You decide when casting the ritual whether newcomers
are disguised by the illusions, and whether the disguise
appears immediately or after a set period, up to 1 week.
A creature that interacts with the target settlement in a way
that would suggest or reveal the illusory nature of the facade,
such as by trying to paint a building affected by the facade or
climbing an illusory structure, can attempt to disbelieve the
illusion. The illusions created by the spell are harmless, so an
illusory river of lava wouldn’t cause damage, nor could thorns
on an illusory rose bush prick someone.
Critical Success You create the facade as described, and you
can alter the programs within your facade by spending 1 day
to reprogram them.
Success You create the facade as described.
Failure Your illusions fail and the ritual has no effect.
Critical Failure Your ritual produces unexpected and
uncontrolled illusions different from what you had planned,
such as unexpected and slowly shifting colors across the
buildings, unpleasant smells, and creatures appearing as
skeletons. These effects fade after 1 month.
Heightened (10th) The cost increases to 100,000 gp and the
radius can be up to 5 miles.
HEARTBOND
RITUAL 2
UNCOMMON
ABJURATION
Cast 1 hour; Cost fine wine and a set of matching rings or other
tokens worth 40 gp total; Secondary Casters 2
Primary Check Nature or Religion (expert); Secondary Checks
Diplomacy, Society
Range 20 feet
You create a magical bond between two willing creatures, who are
secondary casters of the ritual and must share genuine affection
for one another. As part of the ritual, both members of the bond
receive a ring, amulet, or similar token to symbolize their shared
connection. They lose the effects of the ritual when not wearing
the token, and the bond is broken if either token is destroyed.
Creatures benefiting from a successful heartbond ritual can
later participate in a heightened version of the ritual without
requiring new checks by spending the required time and paying
the difference of the two costs. A creature can be under the
effects of multiple heartbond rituals at once.
Critical Success Once per day, each bonded creature can use
a 2-action activity, which has the concentrate trait, to learn
the present state of the other bonded creature. The creature
knows the other creature’s direction and distance and any
conditions affecting them. Both of the participants can cast
message as a divine innate spell at will, but can only target
the other participant.
Success As a critical success, except the bonded creatures
can’t cast message as a divine innate spell.
Failure The ritual has no effect.
Critical Failure Magical backlash creates discordant energy
among the participants. For 1 week, each ritual participant
is clumsy 2 and stupefied 2 whenever they are within 30
feet of another ritual participant.
Heightened (6th) Increase the cost to a total value of 600 gp. On
a success, secondary casters in the ritual permanently gain the
effects of a 6th-level telepathy spell, but only with each other.
HEROES’ FEAST
RITUAL 5
UNCOMMON
CONJURATION
Cast 4 hours; Cost 25 gp; Secondary Casters 1
Primary Check Nature, Religion, or Occultism (expert);
Secondary Checks Diplomacy or Society
Range 40 feet
You conjure otherworldly beings to serve you and your companions
a feast with restorative properties. These mysterious beings may
be fey, divine, or other supernatural servitors, as appropriate
for the primary check. After the first hour of the ritual, these
servants appear and serve a massive feast, complete with an
exquisite table and up to 10 place settings. The bounteous spread
consists of all manner of dishes, including the guests’ childhood
comfort foods, modern delicacies, and preferred drinks. The
summoned servants spend the next 3 hours waiting on you and
the other guests, fetching additional food, pouring drinks, and
so forth. During this time, you and the other guests must strive
to be as polite and gracious as possible to avoid offending your
mysterious hosts. At the feast’s end, the ritual is completed and
you and the secondary caster attempt your checks as normal. If
the feast is interrupted at any point, the servants immediately
vanish with their provisions and the ritual is disrupted.
Critical Success The feast is nourishing and revitalizing. The
magical food casts neutralize poison, remove disease, and
remove fear on each guest for each relevant affliction, using
your modifier for the primary skill check as the counteract
modifier. Each guest also recovers 100 Hit Points and gains
20 temporary Hit Points for the next 12 hours. Guests also
gain a +2 status bonus to saves against disease, fear, and
poison effects for the next 12 hours.
Success As critical success, except guests recover only 50 Hit
Points, gain only 10 temporary Hit Points, and don’t gain the
status bonus to saves.
Failure You and the other guests taste ash in your mouths
and realize that the feast contained nothing of sustenance.
Critical Failure The otherworldly servants were offended by
your behavior or the hubris you demonstrated in summoning
them and poisoned the feast. You and your guests become
sickened 4 and can’t reduce the condition for 12 hours.
Heightened (+1) Increase the Hit Points recovered by 10 and
the temporary Hit Points by 2 (or twice each amount on a
critical success).
REINCARNATE
RITUAL 3
UNCOMMON
NECROMANCY
Cast 4 hours; Cost rare herbs worth a total value of the target’s
level (minimum 1) × 25 gp; Secondary Casters 2
Advanced Player's Guide
242
242
