Dwarf Ancestry Feats
1ST LEVEL
DWARVEN DOUGHTINESS
FEAT 1
DWARF
You are either naturally calm and collected in the
face of imminent danger, or you are very good
at faking it. At the end of your turn, reduce
your frightened condition by 2 instead of 1.
EYE FOR TREASURE
FEAT 1
DWARF
You know good artisanship when you
see it and can wax poetic about
crafting techniques and forms.
You become trained in Crafting
and gain a +1 circumstance bonus on
all Crafting checks made to Recall Knowledge.
If you would automatically become trained in Crafting
(from your background or class, for example), you instead
become trained in a skill of your choice. In addition, you gain
the Crafter’s Appraisal skill feat (page 204), enabling you to
identify magic items using the Crafting skill.
5TH LEVEL
DEFY THE DARKNESS
FEAT 5
DWARF
Prerequisites darkvision
Using ancient dwarven methods developed to fight enemies
wielding magical darkness, you’ve honed your darkvision
and sworn not to use such magic yourself. You gain greater
darkvision, enabling you to see through magical darkness
even if it normally hampers darkvision (such as the darkness
created by a 4th-level darkness spell). You can’t cast spells
with the darkness trait, use item activations with the darkness
trait, or use any other ability with the darkness trait.
DWARVEN REINFORCEMENT
FEAT 5
DWARF
Prerequisites expert in Crafting
You can use your knowledge of engineering and metalwork
to temporarily strengthen thick objects and structures. By
spending 1 hour working on an item, you can give it a +1
circumstance bonus to its Hardness for 24 hours. If you’re a
master in Crafting, the bonus is +2, and if you’re legendary,
the bonus is +3. You can reinforce a portion of a structure,
though 1 hour usually reinforces only a door, a few windows,
or another section that fits within a 10-foot cube.
SHELTERING SLAB
FEAT 5
DWARF
The stone around you is your ally, and you have learned to
use it to shore up your weaknesses. As long as you remain on
the ground and are adjacent to a vertical stone wall that rises
to your height or taller, you aren’t flat-footed against attacks
as a result of being flanked. This works even if you are at the
outside corner of the wall.
9TH LEVEL
ECHOES IN STONE [one-action]
FEAT 9
CONCENTRATE
DWARF
Requirements You are standing on a stone or
earthen surface.
You pause a moment to attune your senses
to the stone around you. Until the start
of your next turn, you gain a new
sense: imprecise tremorsense with a
range of 20 feet.
RETURNING THROW [two-actions] FEAT 9
DWARF
You have mastered the technique of arcing
a projectile so that it returns to your hand
after being thrown, though this requires a
moment to precisely calculate the trajectory and possible
ricochets. Make a ranged Strike with a thrown weapon. Once
the Strike is complete, the weapon arcs or ricochets back to
your hand. If your hands are full when the weapon returns, it
falls to the ground in your space.
STONE BONES [reaction]
FEAT 9
DWARF
Trigger You are struck by a critical hit that deals physical
damage.
Your intractable nature can help you shrug off even the
most grievous injuries. Attempt a DC 17 flat check. If you are
successful, the attack becomes a normal hit.
13TH LEVEL
TELLURIC POWER
FEAT 13
DWARF
You channel strength from the earth beneath your feet to
pummel your enemies. When making a melee Strike against
a target who is standing on the same earth or stone surface
as you are, you gain a circumstance bonus to the damage roll
equal to the number of weapon damage dice.
17TH LEVEL
STONEGATE
FEAT 17
DWARF
Prerequisites Stonewalker
Earthen barriers no longer impede your progress. You gain
passwall as a 7th-level divine innate spell that you can cast
once per day. Unlike the spell, however, this ability can be
used only to open passages through barriers of earth or stone.
Advanced Player's Guide
42
42
