the foe you’re Sneaking up on, even if it’s currently observing
you, as though you were hidden. You take a –2 penalty on
your Stealth check. If your Stealth check against the chosen
foe succeeds, you can make a melee Strike against that foe at
the end of your Sneak.
4TH LEVEL
HEAD STOMP [one-action]
FEAT 4
ROGUE
Make an unarmed melee attack against a prone target. On a
hit, the target becomes flat-footed to all attacks until the end
of your next turn.
MUG [two-actions]
FEAT 4
ROGUE
You make a quick attack and rob your foe in the process.
Make a melee Strike against an adjacent foe. If you hit and
deal sneak attack damage, you can also attempt to Steal from
the target, even if the target is in combat.
PREDICTABLE! [one-action]
FEAT 4
ROGUE
By observing an opponent, you can get a sense of their next
move and prepare to counter or resist it. Choose one target
and attempt a Perception check to Sense Motive against the
foe’s Deception DC or a hard DC of the foe’s level, whichever
is higher.
Critical Success You precisely discern the target’s strategy,
gaining a +2 circumstance bonus to AC against the creature
until the start of your next turn and a +2 circumstance
bonus to your next saving throw against the creature
before the start of your next turn.
Success You deduce the gist of the target’s strategy; as
critical success, except the circumstance bonus is only +1.
Failure You fail to discern the target’s strategy and gain
no benefit.
Critical Failure You misinterpret the target’s strategy and
take a –1 circumstance penalty to AC against the creature
until the start of your next turn, and a –1 circumstance
penalty to your next saving throw against the creature
before the start of your next turn.
THE HARDER THEY FALL
FEAT 4
ROGUE
You make your foes fall painfully when you trip them. When
you successfully Trip a flat-footed foe, your target takes 1d6
bludgeoning damage. On a critical success, the target takes
1d6 bludgeoning damage plus your sneak attack damage.
TWIN DISTRACTION
FEAT 4
ROGUE
Prerequisites Twin Feint
Requirements You are wielding two melee weapons, each in
a different hand.
Your movements with two weapons are so swift and
disorienting that they befuddle your opponent. When using
Twin Feint, if both your Strikes deal damage to a targeted
creature, the target must succeed at a Will saving throw
against your class DC or become stupefied 1 until the end of
your next turn.
6TH LEVEL
ANALYZE WEAKNESS [one-action]
FEAT 6
ROGUE
Prerequisites sneak attack 2d6
Requirements You must have identified a creature with
Recall Knowledge.
Your knowledge of a creature’s physiology and understanding
of tactics helps you attack with pinpoint accuracy. You
carefully study a creature that you’ve identified to scope out
particularly weak points in its positioning or physical form.
The next time you deal sneak attack damage to the chosen
creature with a Strike before the end of your turn, add an
additional 2d6 precision damage. At 11th and 17th levels, if
your additional damage from sneak attack increases, increase
the additional damage from Analyze Weakness to 3d6 at 11th
level and 4d6 at 17th level.
ANTICIPATE AMBUSH
FEAT 6
EXPLORATION
ROGUE
Prerequisites expert in Stealth
Using your extensive knowledge of ambush tactics, you keep
watch for any hidden creatures or dangerous sites, moving
at half your travel speed. If you’re Anticipating an Ambush
at the start of an encounter, you roll a Perception check for
initiative, and all enemies rolling Stealth for initiative take a –2
circumstance penalty to their Stealth checks.
FAR THROW
FEAT 6
ROGUE
When you Strike with a thrown weapon, you take only a –1
penalty for each additional range increment between you and
the target, rather than a –2 penalty.
SHOVE DOWN [free-action]
FEAT 6
ROGUE
Prerequisites trained in Athletics
Requirements Your last action was a successful Shove.
You leverage your weight to topple foes that you move. You
attempt to Trip the target, even if the target is no longer in
your reach.
WATCH YOUR BACK [one-action]
FEAT 6
EMOTION
FEAR
MENTAL
ROGUE
Prerequisites trained in Intimidation
You menace the target, stoking their fears and drawing their
attention. Attempt an Intimidation check against the Will DC of
a target within 30 feet. If you succeed, for 1 minute, that target
gains a +2 status bonus to Perception checks against you, but
they take a –2 status penalty to Will saves against fear effects.
Classes
2
135
135
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Archetypes
Feats
Spells
items
glossary
& index
