Goblin Ancestry Feats
1ST LEVEL
EXTRA SQUISHY
FEAT 1
GOBLIN
Prerequisites unbreakable goblin heritage
Your rubbery physique makes it easier
for you to wedge yourself into
tight spaces and more
difficult for your enemies
to dislodge you. You become
trained in Acrobatics. If you would automatically
become trained in Acrobatics (from your
background or class, for example), you
instead become trained in a skill of
your choice. If you roll a success to
Squeeze, you get a critical success
instead. While you’re Squeezing, you
gain a +4 circumstance bonus to your
Fortitude or Reflex DCs against attempts to
Shove you or otherwise move you from your space.
TWITCHY
FEAT 1
GOBLIN
You are naturally suspicious and wary of danger, especially
when you suspect someone might be leading you into an
ambush. You gain a +1 circumstance bonus to AC and saves
against hazards, and to all of your initiative rolls. If at least
one of your opponents is using Deception or Diplomacy to
determine their initiative, your bonus to initiative from this
feat increases to +4.
5TH LEVEL
KNEECAP [one-action]
FEAT 5
GOBLIN
You deliver a punishing blow to an enemy’s knee, shin, or
other vulnerable anatomy within your reach. Make a Strike
with one of your melee weapons or melee unarmed attacks.
This attack doesn’t deal damage. On a hit, the target takes
a –10-foot status penalty to its Speed or a –15-foot status
penalty on a critical hit. This penalty applies only if the
target has a land Speed and depends on legs or other
targetable appendages to use its land Speed. As with all
penalties to Speed, this can’t reduce a creature’s Speed
below 5 feet.
LOUD SINGER
FEAT 5
GOBLIN
Prerequisites Goblin Song
Staying on pitch, proper breath control, and remembering
the words are all less important than the real measure of
a good singer: volume! The range of your Goblin Song is
increased to 60 feet, and you can target one additional
enemy when you use it.
VANDAL
FEAT 5
GOBLIN
You have a knack for breaking and dismantling
things. Putting them back together is the
boring part, so you largely don’t bother with
that. You become trained in Thievery. If
you would automatically become
trained in Thievery (from your
background or class, for
example), you instead become
trained in a skill of your choice.
In addition, whenever you hit
with a Strike against a trap or an unattended
object, you ignore the first 5 points of the
object’s Hardness.
9TH LEVEL
CLING [one-action]
FEAT 9
GOBLIN
Requirements Your last action was a successful Strike.
You hang onto a foe to harry them into submission. If your
target moves while you’re hanging onto it, you can choose
to move with the target. The target is released if you
choose not to move with it, at the start of your next turn,
or if the target Escapes. Attempts to Escape from a Cling
follow the rules for Escape, but use your Acrobatics DC and
end the Cling instead of the conditions normally ended by
the Escape action.
Special You can use this action without a free hand
if your preceding Strike was made with your jaws or a
similar unarmed attack you could use to hang on. The GM
determines which unarmed attacks apply. Hanging on in this
way prevents you from using that unarmed attack.
17TH LEVEL
RECKLESS ABANDON [free-action]
FEAT 17
FORTUNE
GOBLIN
Frequency once per day
Despite a lifetime filled with questionable decisions, you’ve
managed to survive, as though you have uncanny luck that
lets you avoid the consequences of your own actions. For the
remainder of your turn, if you roll a failure or critical failure
on a saving throw against a harmful effect, you get a success
instead. Further, enemies and hazards that would damage
you this turn roll the minimum possible damage.
These benefits apply only to harmful effects incurred
entirely during your turn in which you activate Reckless
Abandon, such as running through a prismatic wall.
Persistent damage and conditions that were applied prior to
your turn proceed normally, and as soon as your turn ends
you are subject to the full consequences of any dangers still
threatening you.
Ancestries & Backgrounds
1
45
45
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Archetypes
Feats
Spells
items
glossary
& index
