Gruhastha, the fey triune goddess of fate Magdh, or the
lawful aeon god-figure known as the Monad.
Mystery Benefit You hold more mystical knowledge within
you than most. You have one additional spell in your
repertoire of each level you can cast.
Trained Skill Occultism and one Lore skill of your choice
Granted Cantrip read aura
Revelation Spells initial: brain drain; advanced: access lore;
greater: dread secret
Related Domains knowledge, truth
CurSe of torrential knowledge
You have a link to true divine knowledge, but your mortal
mind struggles to process and act on what you know.
Loose materials around you, such as dust, grains of rice,
and droplets of water, slowly shift to form strange runes
or faint indecipherable writing, and you sometimes speak
unintelligible truths or statements in unknown languages
without realizing it.
Minor Curse You take a –4 penalty to initiative, as trying to
process a surge of information about what’s happening around
you slows your ability to respond to it.
Moderate Curse The flow of information through your mind
grows. The attention you divert to process this huge influx
of information means you are always flat-footed. At the start
of each of your turns, you automatically make one check to
Recall Knowledge as a free action. This uses a skill of your
choice that has the Recall Knowledge action, using a result
equal to 10 + your proficiency bonus in that skill (with no other
bonuses, penalties, or modifiers).
Major Curse (11th) The massive flow of information
clouding your mind overwhelms your ability to communicate
with others. You can understand all languages, but you can’t
speak, use linguistic effects, or otherwise communicate with
your allies. If you Cast a Spell with a verbal component, you
must succeed at a DC 5 flat check or the spell is lost. You gain
a +4 status bonus on saving throws against linguistic effects.
TEMPEST
The fury of the wind and waves pounds in your heart,
whether your power flows from natural storms, a conduit
to the elemental Planes of Air and Water, or through
reverence of deities such as Gozreh, the tengu god of
storms Hei Feng, the demon lord Dagon, or the elemental
lords of air and water.
Mystery Benefit You can see perfectly through wind and
water, and you send electric charges through both air and
water. You never take penalties to Perception from wind,
rain, fog, or other precipitation, or from looking through
water or being underwater, and such conditions don’t cause
anything to be concealed from you.
When you deal physical damage with a non-cantrip air
or water spell, you deal an additional 1 electricity damage
per spell level.
Trained Skill Nature
Granted Cantrip electric arc
Revelation Spells initial: tempest touch; advanced: thunderburst;
greater: tempest form
Related Domains Air, Water
CurSe of tHe perpetual StorM
You are the center of your own tiny tempest, ever
surrounded by wind and rain that worsens the more you
tap into your elemental powers. Even when you are calm
and at rest, your hair and clothing are blown about by
gentle winds, you are slightly damp, and your touch often
comes with a static shock.
Minor Curse An aura of a whirling storm whips up in a
5-foot emanation around you and in your space. The aura puts
out small non-magical fires 1 round after they’re lit or brought
into your aura.
Electrical energy builds up within your storm, turning you
into a lightning rod; you gain weakness 2 to electricity, and
electricity spells or effects that have additional effects for a
creature wearing or holding metal treat you as though you
were wearing metal.
Moderate Curse Your minor curse’s aura expands to a 10-
foot emanation and carries rain on the winds. The whirling
winds impose a –2 circumstance penalty on ranged attack
rolls using physical ammunition that target you or originate
from you. Your weakness to electricity increases to 5 or half
your level, whichever is greater, but torrential rain grants you
an equal amount of fire resistance.
Major Curse (11th) Your minor curse’s aura expands to a
15-foot emanation and grows stronger. High winds blowing
outward in the aura impede creatures’ progress. The aura is
difficult terrain for Large and smaller creatures on the ground,
and for Huge or smaller flying creatures. You aren’t affected by
this difficult terrain.
The electricity arcing through you becomes dangerous. Any
creature that touches you, including with a touch spell or a
melee unarmed attack, takes 1d6 electricity damage.
Oracle Feats
At every level that you gain an oracle feat, you can
select one of the following feats. You must satisfy any
prerequisites before selecting the feat.
1ST LEVEL
GLEAN LORE [one-action]
FEAT 1
DIVINATION
DIVINE
ORACLE
SECRET
You tap into the collected lore of the divine, accessing a variety
of potentially useful information. Attempt a Religion check to
understand the information you gain. The GM sets the DC
(similar to the DC to Recall Knowledge), potentially adjusting
the DC of the check for topics far removed from your mystery.
Critical Success You comprehend the lore accurately or gain a
useful clue from the divine about your situation.
Success You learn two pieces of information about the topic,
one true and one erroneous, but you don’t know which
is which.
Advanced Player's Guide
78
78
