clues available. If you’re pursuing the subject of a lead and
you enter a new location that includes another clue toward
solving the mystery, the GM informs you of the existence
of the clue and its type: an object, person, spell effect, or
the like. When you find the clue, the GM informs you that
you’ve done so. If there is more than one clue in the location,
the GM chooses one to inform you about. When you find
any of the clues in that location, the GM informs you that
you’ve done so, even if it wasn’t the clue they’d chosen or
there are other clues you haven’t found. Your proficiency
rank for your investigator class DC increases to master.
Investigator Feats
At every level that you gain an investigator feat, you can
select one of the following feats. You must satisfy any
prerequisites before selecting the feat.
1ST LEVEL
FLEXIBLE STUDIES
FEAT 1
INVESTIGATOR
You’ve collected a cross-section of information on various
disciplines you can refer to when preparing for various tasks.
During your daily preparations, you can cram on a certain
subject to become temporarily trained in one skill of your
choice. This proficiency lasts until you prepare again. As this
proficiency is temporary, you can’t use it as a prerequisite for
a skill increase or a permanent character option like a feat.
KNOWN WEAKNESSES
FEAT 1
INVESTIGATOR
Whenever you Devise a Stratagem, you can also attempt a
check to Recall Knowledge as part of that action. If you critically
succeed at the Recall Knowledge check, you notice a weakness
and gain a +1 circumstance bonus to your attack roll from Devise
a Stratagem. If you immediately convey this information to your
allies as part of the check, each ally gains a +1 circumstance
bonus to their next attack roll against the subject, as long as
their attack is made before the beginning of your next turn.
TAKEDOWN EXPERT
FEAT 1
INVESTIGATOR
You’ve mastered combat practices that let you get up close and
bring down perpetrators alive. You can use your Intelligence
modifier on attack rolls when you Devise a Stratagem if you’re
using a weapon of the club group in one hand (like a club, staff,
or sap), in addition to the usual weapons, and those Strikes
qualify for your strategic strike. Additionally, you can make any
of your Strikes nonlethal without taking the normal –2 penalty.
THAT’S ODD
FEAT 1
INVESTIGATOR
When you enter a new location, such as a room or corridor,
you immediately notice one thing out of the ordinary. The GM
determines what it is, or whether there’s nothing reasonable
to pick up, skipping obvious clues that can be easily noticed
without a check or specifically looking for them. You learn only
that an area or object is suspicious, but not why it’s suspicious.
For example, if you entered a study with a large bloodstain
on the ground, the bloodstain is so obviously suspicious it’s
evident to you already, so the GM might note that there’s
something suspicious about the desk drawer instead. You
would then need to investigate the drawer further to find out
what specifically is out of the ordinary. That’s Odd doesn’t
reveal whether creatures are suspicious.
You don’t typically get any benefit when you leave
and come back to a place, though if a major change has
happened there and time has passed, the GM might
determine that you do.
TRAP FINDER
FEAT 1
INVESTIGATOR
You have an intuitive sense that alerts you to the dangers and
presence of traps. You gain a +1 circumstance bonus to Perception
checks to find traps, to AC against attacks made by traps, and to
saves against traps. Even if you aren’t Searching, you get a check
to find traps that normally require you to be Searching. You still
need to meet any other requirements to find the trap.
You can disable traps that require a proficiency rank of
master in Thievery. If you have master proficiency in Thievery,
you can disable traps that require a proficiency rank of
legendary instead, and your circumstance bonuses against
traps increase to +2.
UNDERWORLD INVESTIGATOR
FEAT 1
INVESTIGATOR
Your work as an investigator makes you familiar with the
criminal element. You might be a criminal yourself, or you
might have gained an understanding of how they operate
from the outside. You become trained in Underworld Lore, and
you gain your Pursue a Lead circumstance bonus to Thievery
checks to investigate the subject of your lead (such as checks
to Steal a clue from a suspect or Pick a Lock to open a safe
with damning documents).
2ND LEVEL
ATHLETIC STRATEGIST
FEAT 2
INVESTIGATOR
Prerequisites trained in Athletics
You know how to calculatedly manipulate joints and body
weight. In addition to using Devise a Stratagem to modify a
Strike, you can use it to modify a Disarm, Grapple, Shove, or
Trip attempt, substituting your Devise a Stratagem roll for the
Athletics check. You must apply the substitution to the first
eligible attack you make, whether it’s a Strike or one of the
Athletics actions.
You can also use your Intelligence modifier instead of
Strength for the Athletics check when you substitute your
Devise a Stratagem roll, unless you’re using a weapon for the
maneuver and the weapon doesn’t fit the restrictions for using
Intelligence with a stratagem.
Advanced Player's Guide
60
60
