You warp the structure of earthen material, turning rock into
mud or mud into rock. Choose one of these two options when
you Cast the Spell.
• Rock to Mud You transform non-magical, unworked, and
unattended stone in the area into an equal volume of
mud. If you Cast this Spell on a stone floor, it becomes
difficult terrain; if the resulting mud is at least 3 feet
deep, it is greater difficult terrain, or the creature can
try to Swim through it (DC 10 Athletics). If the mud is
deep enough that a creature can’t reach the bottom, the
creature must Swim to move through it. If you Cast this
Spell on a ceiling, the falling mud deals 8d6 bludgeoning
damage (basic Reflex save) and spreads out, creating
difficult terrain in an area 10 feet larger in radius than
the original spell’s area. Once the rock is transformed into
mud, the mud is non-magical and remains until natural
conditions cause it to dry out or otherwise disperse.
• Mud to Rock Mud in the area turns into unworked stone.
If creatures are in the mud when it is transformed to
stone, they must attempt a Reflex saving throw.
Critical Success The creature escapes the mud and is atop
the stone, unaffected.
Success The creature climbs out of the mud as it turns to
rock and is prone atop the stone.
Failure The creature is partially stuck in the mud and is
grabbed for 1 round or until it Escapes, whichever
comes first.
Critical Failure The creature is entirely stuck. It is
restrained for 1 round or until it Escapes, whichever
comes first.
Heightened (+2) Add an additional 10-foot cube to the area,
adjacent to at least one of the other cubes.
VAMPIRIC MAIDEN
SPELL 4
NECROMANCY
NEGATIVE
Traditions arcane, divine, occult
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal
Range 30 feet; Targets 1 creature
Saving Throw Fortitude
A ghostly iron maiden snaps shut on the target and drains
its vitality for your gain. This deals 4d4 piercing damage and
4d4 negative damage, and the target must attempt a Fortitude
save. You gain temporary HP equal to the negative damage
the target takes (after applying resistances, weaknesses, and
the like). You lose any remaining temporary HP after 1 minute.
Critical Success The target is unaffected.
Success The target takes half damage.
Failure The target is briefly trapped within the vampiric
maiden. The target takes full damage and is immobilized by
the iron maiden for 1 round or until it uses an Interact action
to extricate itself, whichever comes first.
Critical Failure The target takes double damage and is
immobilized by the vampiric maiden for 1 round or until it
Escapes (the DC is your spell DC), whichever comes first.
Heightened (+1) The piercing and negative damage increase
by 1d4 each.
VOMIT SWARM
SPELL 2
EVOCATION
Traditions arcane, occult, primal
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal
Area 30-foot cone
Saving Throw basic Reflex
You belch forth a swarm of magical vermin. You evoke and
shape the creatures from your own imagination, allowing you
to change the appearance of the creatures (typically a mix
of centipedes, roaches, wasps, and worms), but this doesn’t
change the effect of the spell. The vermin swarm over anyone
in the area, their bites and stings dealing 2d8 piercing damage
(basic Reflex save). A creature that fails its saving throw also
becomes sickened 1. Once the spell ends, the swarm disappears.
Heightened (+1) Increase the damage by 1d8.
WALL OF FLESH
SPELL 5
NECROMANCY
Traditions divine, occult, primal
Cast [two-actions] material, somatic
Range 20 feet
Duration 10 minutes
You craft a 20-foot-tall wall of living flesh in a straight line up to
30 feet long. The wall is 3 feet thick, and each 5-foot-long section
has AC 10 and 75 HP. If you wish, the wall can be of a smaller
length or height. You must create the wall in an unbroken open
space so its edges don’t pass through any creatures or objects,
or the spell is lost. The wall can’t be Repaired but can be healed
by positive energy and healing spells and abilities.
When you Cast the Spell, choose one of the following
features for your wall.
• Mouths The wall has countless toothy mouths along its
surface. The mouths Strike any creature that ends its turn
within 5 feet of the wall, using your spell attack roll for
these Strikes and dealing piercing damage equal to 1d6 +
your spellcasting ability modifier. The mouths are capable
of consuming potions; since the wall is alive, it can recover
Hit Points from a potion of healing, but it can’t benefit from
any effect that would give it the ability to move. Otherwise,
the GM determines which potions can affect the wall.
• Eyes The wall sprouts hundreds of unblinking eyes. You
can see through these eyes, gaining a +2 circumstance
bonus to visual Perception checks within the wall’s line
of sight. You can also use the eyes for determining line
of sight for ranged attacks and spells, but you don’t have
line of effect through the wall.
• Arms The wall is a mass of grasping arms. Any creature
that ends its turn within 5 feet of the wall must attempt
a Reflex save.
Success The creature is unaffected.
Failure The creature is grabbed by the wall for 1 round
or until it Escapes against your spell DC, whichever
comes first.
Critical Failure The creature is restrained by the wall
for 1 round or until it Escapes against your spell DC,
whichever comes first.
Spells
5
227
227
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Archetypes
Feats
Spells
items
glossary
& index
