Major Curse (11th) The flames surrounding you are no
longer simply visions. An aura of fire surrounds you in a
10-foot emanation, dealing 4d6 fire damage (basic Reflex save)
to all other creatures in the aura at the end of each of your
turns. You lose 1d6 Hit Points at the end of your turn each
round, with no save; if you have a weakness to fire, increase
the number of HP you lose by that weakness.
You can suppress your aura until the start of your next
turn by spending a single action, which has the concentrate
trait, to diminish the flames, causing neither you nor anyone
in the aura to take damage. While Refocusing to reduce your
curse, you are continually diminishing the flames, so you don’t
lose HP. The flames subside if you fall unconscious, but they
resume when you wake up unless you rested for long enough
to reset your curse. As usual for oracular curses, you can’t
mitigate or reduce the lost Hit Points in any way, though you
can still heal the lost HP normally after the fact.
LIFE
The never-ending flow of positive energy within living
beings is palpable to you. You might uphold the sanctity
of life, or perhaps you seek to undermine it. You might
draw power from the collective vitality of the world’s living
creatures, hold some connection to the Positive Energy
Plane, or revere a collection of deities including Irori,
Pharasma, Sarenrae, and the god of medicine Qi Zhong.
Mystery Benefit Your body is a deep reservoir of life energy.
At each level, you gain Hit Points equal to 10 + your
Constitution modifier from the oracle class, instead of 8 +
your Constitution modifier.
Trained Skill Medicine
Granted Cantrip stabilize
Revelation Spells initial: life link; advanced: delay affliction;
greater: life-giving form
Related Domains death, healing
CurSe of outpouring life
Life energy flows outward from you and connects you
to all living things, but you expend your vital essence to
do so. Your presence comforts the ill and injured, causes
scars to fade slightly, spurs new growth in plants, and
otherwise infuses your surroundings with vitality.
Minor Curse As your life force seeps outward, it becomes
more difficult to keep your body functioning. Effects that
restore Hit Points to you take a status penalty equal to half
your level (minimum 1) to the number of HP you recover.
Moderate Curse The flow of life energy away from you can’t
be reversed. In addition to the effects of your minor curse,
you can’t be healed by magical effects originating from other
creatures. However, if you are unconscious, magical effects
can restore you to 1 HP (but no higher). You are affected
normally by healing elixirs, potions, and other items. When
you cast heal and all your targets are living creatures, you roll
d12s instead of d8s for the amount of healing.
Whenever you finish casting a non-cantrip spell, you restore
Hit Points equal to the spell level to your choice of either one
KEY TERMS
You’ll see these key terms in many oracle class features.
Cursebound: Spells with this trait increase the severity
of your oracular curse when cast. Usually only revelation
spells have this trait. You can’t cast a cursebound spell if
you don’t have an oracular curse.
Fortune and Misfortune: Fortune and misfortune effects
can alter how you roll your dice. You can never have more
than one fortune and one misfortune effect come into play
on a single roll. If multiple fortune effects would apply, you
must pick which to use. If two misfortune effects apply, the
GM decides which is worse and applies it. If both a fortune
effect and a misfortune effect would apply to the same roll,
the two cancel each other out, and you roll normally.
Metamagic: Actions with the metamagic trait tweak
the properties of your spells. These actions usually come
from metamagic feats. You must use a metamagic action
directly before Casting the Spell you want to alter. If you
use any action (including free actions and reactions) other
than Cast a Spell directly after, you waste the benefits of
the metamagic action. Any additional effects added by a
metamagic action are part of the spell’s effect, not of the
metamagic action itself.
OTHER FOCUS SPELLS
You might gain focus spells that aren’t revelation spells and
don’t have the cursebound trait (by taking an archetype,
for instance). Since these spells aren’t drawing on the
same divine mystery as your revelation spells, casting
them doesn’t increase the effects of your curse. They still
cost Focus Points as normal, and you still can’t increase
your focus pool to hold more than 3 Focus Points.
target of the spell or the creature nearest to you. You can’t heal
yourself in this way. This healing has the healing, necromancy,
and positive traits, as well as the tradition trait of the spell.
Major Curse (11th) Life energy tears through you to empower
your magic. Some of your spells carry positive energy with
them. Each time you use a spell slot to cast a 5th-level or higher
spell that takes 2 or more actions to cast, you disperse positive
energy in a 30-foot burst with the effects of a 3-action heal spell
with a level 4 lower than that of the spell you cast. This healing
occurs immediately after you finish Casting the Spell. You don’t
benefit from this healing. Instead, you lose double the number
of Hit Points rolled for the heal spell.
LORE
Knowledge and information come freely to you. You
might use this lore to gain power or perhaps to understand
the divine mysteries of the multiverse. You might have a
conduit to the fabled Akashic Record, maintain a subtle
telepathic connection to the collective subconscious of
all living creatures, or follow in the footsteps of deities
such as Abadar, Irori, Nethys, Irori’s scholarly nephew
Classes
2
77
77
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Archetypes
Feats
Spells
items
glossary
& index
