your speech and movement in an attempt to conceal the fact
that you are Casting a Spell. If the next action you use is to
Cast a Spell, attempt a Stealth check against one or more
observers’ Perception DCs; if the spell has verbal components,
you must also attempt a Deception check against the
observers’ Perception DC. If you succeed at your check (or
checks) against an observer’s DC, that observer doesn’t notice
you’re Casting a Spell, even though material, somatic, and
verbal components are usually noticeable and spells normally
have sensory manifestations that would make spellcasting
obvious to those nearby.
This ability hides only the spell’s spellcasting actions and
manifestations, not its effects, so an observer might still see a
ray streak out from you or see you vanish into thin air.
ENHANCED FAMILIAR
FEAT 2
WITCH
Prerequisites a familiar
You infuse your familiar with additional magical energy. You can
select four familiar or master abilities each day instead of two.
Special Add the bonus familiar abilities you gain for being a
witch to this amount.
FAMILIAR’S LANGUAGE
FEAT 2
DIVINATION
WITCH
Prerequisites a familiar
You’ve learned to speak with your familiar and other creatures
like it. You can ask questions of, receive answers from, and
use the Diplomacy skill with creatures of the same family of
animals as your familiar. For example, if your familiar were a
cat, you could gain the effects of speak with animals for any
felines (including leopards, lions, and tigers, among others).
This ability doesn’t make them more friendly than normal.
If your familiar ever changes to a different creature, you
can’t use this ability for 1 week while you absorb your new
familiar’s language.
Special This feat has the trait corresponding to the tradition
of spells you cast (arcane, divine, occult, or primal).
LIVING HAIR
FEAT 2
WITCH
You can instantly grow or shrink your hair, eyebrows, beard,
or mustache by up to several feet and manipulate your hair
for use as a weapon, though your control isn’t fine enough for
more dexterous tasks. You gain a hair unarmed attack that
deals 1d4 bludgeoning damage; is in the brawling group; and
has the agile, disarm, finesse, trip, and unarmed traits.
4TH LEVEL
ELDRITCH NAILS
FEAT 4
WITCH
Your nails are supernaturally long and sharp. You gain a nails
unarmed attack that deals 1d6 slashing damage. Your nails are
in the brawling group and have the agile and unarmed traits.
You can etch your nails with runes with the same cost and
restrictions as for etching runes onto handwraps of mighty
blows; runes etched onto your nails apply to nails unarmed
attacks with both hands but not to other unarmed attacks.
You can deliver hexes through your nails. When you
successfully cast a non-cantrip hex that requires 2 actions
or more to cast and that doesn’t require a spell attack roll, if
your target is within your reach, as part of the spellcasting
activity you can make a nails Strike against the foe before
applying any effects of the hex. If this Strike misses, the hex
has no effect.
IMPROVED FAMILIAR
FEAT 4
WITCH
You find it easy to attract a powerful and unusual familiar to
your side. The number of abilities required to make your familiar
a specific familiar (page 147) is two lower than normal.
RITES OF CONVOCATION
FEAT 4
WITCH
Your patron grants you the power to summon other creatures
to aid you. Choose one summon spell (such as summon animal,
summon construct, and so forth) that appears on the spell
list of your spellcasting tradition. You can spend 10 minutes
in communion with your familiar to replace one spell you’ve
prepared in one of your witch spell slots with the spell you
chose, heightened to the same level. The spell you replaced
must be of at least the summon spell’s minimum spell level.
6TH LEVEL
GREATER LESSON
FEAT 6
WITCH
Your patron grants you greater knowledge. Choose a greater or
basic lesson from the list on page 100. You gain its associated
hex, and your familiar learns the associated spell. Increase the
number of Focus Points in your focus pool by 1.
STEADY SPELLCASTING
FEAT 6
WITCH
Confident in your technique, you don’t easily lose your
concentration when you Cast a Spell. If another creature’s
reaction would disrupt your spellcasting action, attempt a DC
15 flat check. If you succeed, your action isn’t disrupted.
WITCH’S CHARGE
FEAT 6
DETECTION
DIVINATION
WITCH
You forge a magical link with another creature, granting you
awareness of that creature’s condition and creating a conduit
for spellcasting. During your daily preparations, you can
designate one willing creature as your charge. You are always
aware of your charge’s direction from you, its distance from
you, and any conditions affecting it. In addition, you can cast
spells with a range of touch on your charge from a range of 30
feet. These effects persist until your next daily preparations.
Special This feat has the trait corresponding to the tradition
of spells you cast (arcane, divine, occult, or primal).
Advanced Player's Guide
102
102
