try to Engulf the same creature only once per turn, even if you
roll it onto a creature’s space more than once.
A creature that fails its save is pulled into the orb. It
becomes grabbed, moves along with the orb, and must hold
its breath or begin suffocating (unless it can breathe in water).
An engulfed Medium or smaller creature and anyone trying to
affect that creature follow the normal rules for aquatic battles
(Core Rulebook 478). An engulfed Large creature is usually
big enough that parts of it stick out from the water, and it
can reach out of the water. An engulfed creature can get free
either by Swimming with a successful DC 10 Athletics check
or by Escaping against your spell DC. A creature that critically
failed its Reflex save is further stuck and must attempt to
Escape instead of Swim. A freed creature exits the orb’s space
and can immediately breathe. The orb can contain as many
creatures as can fit in its space.
When the spell ends, all creatures the orb has engulfed are
automatically released.
BESTIAL CURSE
SPELL 4
CURSE
POLYMORPH
TRANSMUTATION
Traditions arcane, occult, primal
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal
Range touch; Targets 1 living humanoid
Saving Throw Fortitude; Duration varies
You tap into the target’s inner being and curse it to become a
bestial version of itself. The effect is based on its Fortitude save.
Critical Success The target is unaffected.
Success The target’s body gains minor bestial features. Its
insides churn as they partially transform, causing it to be
clumsy 1 for 1 round. When it recovers from the clumsy
condition, its features revert to normal and the spell ends.
Failure The target transforms into a bestial form for 1 hour.
The target becomes clumsy 1 and gains weakness 1 to silver.
It gains a claw, hoof, horn, or jaws Strike (your choice) that
uses the target’s unarmed Strike statistics except that the
damage type changes to bludgeoning, piercing, or slashing,
as appropriate. Whenever the target attempts to use any
manipulate action, it must succeed at a DC 5 flat check or
the action is lost.
Critical Failure As failure, but the duration is unlimited.
BLANKET OF STARS
SPELL 6
ILLUSION
Traditions occult, primal
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal
Saving Throw Will; Duration 10 minutes
A flowing cloak of utter darkness drapes over you, filled with
pinpricks of light like distant stars. It imparts the stillness of
the cosmos to you, granting you a +2 status bonus to Stealth
checks to Hide and Sneak. While outside under a starry night
sky, you’re also invisible as long as you remain still. When
moving under a starry night sky, you are concealed instead.
Gazing too closely into the stars is disorienting. Any creature
Spells
5
215
215
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Archetypes
Feats
Spells
items
glossary
& index
