STRATEGIC BYPASS
FEAT 14
INVESTIGATOR
Your plans account for your foes’ resistances, enabling
you to strike a telling blow. When you hit with a Strike
on which you substituted your attack roll due to Devising
a Stratagem, you ignore an amount of resistance equal to
your Intelligence modifier for each resistance that applies
against your attack.
16TH LEVEL
DIDACTIC STRIKE
FEAT 16
INVESTIGATOR
Prerequisites Shared Stratagem
When you find a glaring weakness, you can set your allies
up to annihilate your foe. When you use Shared Stratagem,
you can designate up to 10 allies instead of just one. The foe
is flat-footed against the first attack from each designated
ally before your next turn, and each ally’s first attack deals an
extra 2d6 precision damage to the target if it hits.
IMPLAUSIBLE PURCHASE
FEAT 16
INVESTIGATOR
Prerequisites Predictive Purchase
It seems impossible, but you’ve analyzed every angle and are
able to just keep pulling out exactly the item you need, even
in far-flung locations. You can use Prescient Planner even if
you have already used it after purchasing goods, and you can
use it as a single action instead of a 2-action activity, during
which you Interact to draw the item. In addition, five times
per day, you can use Prescient Planner to pull out a common
consumable item up to 6 levels lower than your level.
RECONSTRUCT THE SCENE
FEAT 16
CONCENTRATE
INVESTIGATOR
You spend 1 minute surveying a small location (such as a
single room) to get an impression of events that occurred
there in the last day. This involves moving about the area and
studying footprints, the placement of objects, spilled drinks or
blood, and so forth. You get an indistinct mental impression
of significant events that happened there. This gives you
clues and details of the past, including the overall events and
their time frame, but it’s not a perfect record. This also isn’t
enough to identify who was involved in these events if you
weren’t already aware the person was there. As determined
by the GM, you also pick out various seemingly small details
that could serve as important clues, like a memorable weapon
someone used for a murder or the type of cloak someone wore
when passing through.
18TH LEVEL
LEAD INVESTIGATOR
FEAT 18
EXPLORATION
INVESTIGATOR
Prerequisites Clue Them All In
You spend 1 minute briefing up to four allies about one lead
you’re pursuing. Those allies gain the same circumstance
bonus you do from Pursue a Lead to checks to investigate
that lead. This bonus lasts until you cease pursing that lead or
for 1 day, whichever comes first. This doesn’t confer any other
benefits of pursuing a lead, such as adding the circumstance
bonus to your saves with Detective’s Readiness.
TRICKSTER’S ACE [reaction]
FEAT 18
CONCENTRATE
INVESTIGATOR
Trigger You specify the trigger when you make your daily
preparations (see Requirements below).
Requirements When you make your daily preparations, you
must specify a trigger for this reaction using the same
restrictions as the triggers for the Ready action. You also
choose a single spell from the arcane, divine, occult, or primal
list of 4th level or lower. The spell can’t have a cost, nor can
its casting time be more than 10 minutes. The spell must
be able to target a single creature, and you must be a valid
target for it.
Whether from jury-rigged magic items, deduction from the
study of magical interactions, or other means, you have a
contingency in your back pocket for desperate situations.
When the trigger occurs, you cause the spell to come into
effect. The spell targets only you, no matter how many
creatures it would affect normally. If you define particularly
complicated conditions, as determined by the GM, the trigger
might fail. Once the contingency is triggered, the spell is
expended until your next daily preparations.
20TH LEVEL
EVERYONE’S A SUSPECT
FEAT 20
INVESTIGATOR
You are so suspicious of everyone you meet that you keep
mental notes on how to defeat them all—even your own allies.
After interacting with a creature for at least 1 minute, you
automatically Pursue a Lead with that creature as the subject.
You can have any number of such leads at any given time, and
when you Pursue a Lead again, you don’t give up any of these
automatic subjects.
JUST THE FACTS
FEAT 20
INVESTIGATOR
Prerequisites Thorough Research
You fundamentally understand everything to the point where
your research can’t possibly be wrong. You are permanently
quickened and can use the extra action to Recall Knowledge.
Your checks to Recall Knowledge are no longer secret.
When you Recall Knowledge, you use the outcome for one
degree of success better than the result of your check, and
if an effect (such as Dubious Knowledge) would give you
inaccurate information from your Recall Knowledge check,
you know which information is inaccurate. When one of
your allies Recalls Knowledge and gains false information,
you also know that information is inaccurate if they share
it with you.
Classes
2
65
65
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Archetypes
Feats
Spells
items
glossary
& index
