devoted yourself to researching the secrets of the fiendish
realms. You gain the trained proficiency rank in Intimidation
and Religion. If you would automatically become trained
in one of those skills (from your background or class, for
example), you instead become trained in a skill of your choice.
You also become trained in a Lore skill related to the fiendish
plane from which you trace your lineage (usually Abaddon
Lore, Abyss Lore, or Hell Lore).
FORM OF THE FIEND
FEAT 1
TIEFLING
Part of your body has an obvious, fiendish appearance. Your
hands end in razor-sharp claws, you have hooves instead of
feet, sharp teeth fill your mouth, or a whipping tail extends
from your spine. You gain your choice of one of the following
unarmed attacks. The attack is in the brawling group and has
the listed damage die and traits.
Claw 1d4 slashing (agile, finesse, unarmed, versatile piercing)
Hoof 1d6 bludgeoning (finesse, unarmed)
Jaws 1d6 piercing (finesse, unarmed)
Tail 1d4 bludgeoning (agile, finesse, unarmed)
Special You can select this feat only at 1st level, and you
can’t retrain into or out of this feat, nor can you change the
type of attack you gained.
GRIMSPAWN
FEAT 1
LINEAGE
TIEFLING
Your lineage traces back to a daemon, one of the manifestations
of horrific forms of death that devour souls within their foul
home of Abaddon. As a result, you cling tenaciously to the last
shreds of your own life force. You gain the Diehard feat.
HELLSPAWN
FEAT 1
LINEAGE
TIEFLING
Your lineage descends from devils, the conniving schemers of
Hell’s malevolent hierarchy. You’re as skilled at noticing lies
and twisted wordings as you are at constructing them. You
are trained in Deception and Legal Lore. If you were already
trained in Deception (from your background or class, for
example), you instead become trained in a skill of your choice.
You also gain the Lie to Me skill feat.
NIMBLE HOOVES
FEAT 1
TIEFLING
Your legs end in hooves rather than feet, with joints and
tendons that allow you to move with great haste. Your Speed
increases by 5 feet.
Special The Speed increase from this feat isn’t cumulative
with any Speed increase from your ancestry feats (such as
Nimble Elf).
PITBORN
FEAT 1
LINEAGE
TIEFLING
Your blood bears the mark of a demon, a living embodiment
of sin from the fetid depths of the Abyss. Demonic power
pulses through your veins and manifests in a different way
for each pitborn, whether you have webbed fingers and thrive
in the water, large hands capable of wrestling larger foes, or
some other manifestation. You are trained in Athletics. If you
were already trained in Athletics (from your background or
class, for example), you instead become trained in a skill of
your choice.
You also gain any one common 1st-level skill feat
with a prerequisite of trained in Athletics, as reflects the
manifestation of your Abyssal blood.
5TH LEVEL
FIENDISH RESISTANCE
FEAT 5
TIEFLING
Your connection to your fiendish forebears has granted you
one of their resistances as well. Choose one of the following
energy damage types: acid, cold, electricity, fire, or sonic. You
gain resistance 5 to that damage type.
Though you can choose any of these, the damage type
typically matches a fiend associated with your bloodline.
For instance, a hellspawn might choose resistance to fire,
or a pitborn with a vrock ancestor might choose resistance
to electricity.
MALICIOUS BANE
FEAT 5
TIEFLING
Whether your heart is pure or corrupt, you can call forth a
malediction upon your foes. You can cast bane once per day as
a 1st-level divine innate spell.
SKILLFUL TAIL
FEAT 5
TIEFLING
You’ve always had a tail, but with practice, you’ve learned to
use it for more than signaling your mood. You can perform
simple Interact actions with your tail such as opening an
unlocked door. Your tail can’t perform actions that require
fingers or significant manual dexterity, including any action
that would require a check to accomplish, and you can’t use
it to hold items.
9TH LEVEL
DAEMON MAGIC
FEAT 9
TIEFLING
Prerequisites Grimspawn
The magic of Abaddon runs through your blood, and you can
wield that power. You can cast death knell and false life each
once per day as 2nd-level divine innate spells.
DEMON MAGIC
FEAT 9
TIEFLING
Prerequisites Pitborn
You can channel the power of the Abyss through your
heritage, producing terrible tangible effects. You can cast
paranoia and shatter each once per day as 2nd-level divine
innate spells.
Advanced Player's Guide
40
40
