Martial Artist
You have trained in the martial arts, making your unarmed
strikes lethal. You seek neither mysticism nor enlightenment,
and you don’t view this training as some greater path to
wisdom. Yours is the way of the fist striking flesh, the hand
turning aside the blade, and the devastating kick taking
your enemy down. Your training is focused and practical,
and since you have turned every part of your body into a
weapon, you never find yourself without one. While you
might have learned your techniques in a dojo or school
focused on training the body, you might just as easily have
learned them in street brawls and bar fights, combining
instincts with intense athleticism for a deadly combination.
Additional Feats: 4th Brawling Focus (Core Rulebook
160), Crane Stance (Core Rulebook 158), Dragon
Stance (Core Rulebook 158), Gorilla Stance (page 128),
Mountain Stance (Core Rulebook 159), Stumbling Stance
(page 128), Tiger Stance (Core Rulebook 159), Wolf Stance
(Core Rulebook 159); 8th Crane Flutter (Core Rulebook
161), Dragon Roar (Core Rulebook 161), Gorilla Pound
(page 129), Mountain Stronghold (Core Rulebook 161),
Stumbling Feint (page 129), Tiger Slash (Core Rulebook
161), Wolf Drag (Core Rulebook 162); 16th Mountain
Quake (Core Rulebook 164)
MARTIAL ARTIST DEDICATION
FEAT 2
ARCHETYPE
DEDICATION
You have trained to use your fists as deadly weapons. The
damage die for your fist unarmed attacks becomes 1d6
instead of 1d4. You don’t take the –2 circumstance penalty for
making a lethal attack with your nonlethal unarmed attacks.
Whenever you gain a class feature that grants you expert
or greater proficiency in certain weapons, you also gain that
proficiency rank in all unarmed attacks.
Special You can’t select another dedication feat until you
have gained two other feats from the martial artist archetype.
FOLLOW-UP STRIKE [one-action]
FEAT 6
ARCHETYPE
FLOURISH
Prerequisites Martial Artist Dedication
Requirements Your last action was a missed Strike with a
melee unarmed attack.
You have trained to use all parts of your body as a weapon,
and when you miss with an attack, you can usually continue
the attack with a different body part and still deal damage.
Make another Strike with a melee unarmed attack, using the
same multiple attack penalty as for the missed Strike, if any.
GRIEVOUS BLOW [two-actions]
FEAT 8
ARCHETYPE
FLOURISH
Prerequisites Martial Artist Dedication
You know how to deliver focused, powerful blows that bypass
your enemies’ resistances. Make an unarmed melee Strike.
This counts as two attacks when calculating your multiple
attack penalty. If this Strike hits, you deal two extra weapon
damage dice. If you are at least 18th level, increase this to
three extra weapon damage dice.
This attack also ignores an amount of resistance to
physical damage, or to a specific physical damage
type, equal to your level.
PATH OF IRON [three-actions]
FEAT 14
ARCHETYPE
FLOURISH
Prerequisites Martial Artist Dedication
Frequency once per minute
With a burst of effort, you weave a path through
your enemies, striking each in turn as you move
past them. You Stride; this movement doesn’t
trigger reactions. You can Strike up to three
times at any point during your movement,
each against a different enemy. Each
attack counts toward your multiple
attack penalty, but your multiple
attack penalty doesn’t increase
until you have made all
your attacks.
Advanced Player's Guide
182
182
