When you make an Opportune Riposte, roll twice on the
attack roll and take the better result.
18TH LEVEL
INCREDIBLE LUCK
FEAT 18
FORTUNE
SWASHBUCKLER
Prerequisites Charmed Life
You always seem to bounce back from the worst. When you use
Charmed Life, roll the save twice (including the +2 circumstance
bonus from Charmed Life) and use the better result.
LETHAL FINISHER [one-action]
FEAT 18
DEATH
FINISHER
SWASHBUCKLER
Prerequisites precise strike 6d6
You stab your foe in a vital organ, possibly killing them
outright. Make a Strike. On a success, you forego your precise
strike damage from the finisher. Instead, your target takes
additional precision damage based on a Fortitude save against
your class DC. If your Strike was a critical hit, the target’s
saving throw outcome is one degree worse.
Critical Success You deal 6 precision damage.
Success You deal 6d6 precision damage.
Failure You deal 12d6 precision damage.
Critical Failure You deal 18d6 precision damage.
PARRY AND RIPOSTE
FEAT 18
SWASHBUCKLER
Prerequisites Opportune Riposte
Your parries and finishers allow you to riposte with the
slightest provocation. You can use Opportune Riposte against
an enemy who fails at a Strike against you (not just critically
fails), provided you have both damaged that creature with a
finisher on your last turn and currently have a circumstance
bonus to AC from the parry weapon trait, Dueling Parry, or
Twin Parry.
20TH LEVEL
INEXHAUSTIBLE COUNTERMOVES
FEAT 20
SWASHBUCKLER
You can react whenever a foe leaves a gap in their
defenses. At the start of each enemy’s turn, you gain an
extra reaction you can use only during that turn to perform
an Opportune Riposte, or an Attack of Opportunity if you
have that reaction.
PANACHE PARAGON
FEAT 20
SWASHBUCKLER
You find opportunities to perform stylish feats in the
moments between others’ heartbeats and eye blinks. You are
permanently quickened. You can use the extra action only
to Tumble Through or perform the skill action listed in your
swashbuckler’s style as one that allows you to gain panache,
or other actions that would allow you to gain panache at the
GM’s discretion.
You stylishly leap and deliver a powerful finisher. Make a
Leap, High Jump, or Long Jump and attempt one single-action
finisher at any point during your jump; the finisher can’t be
one that includes other movement, such as Mobile Finisher.
Immediately after the finisher, you fall to the ground if you’re
in the air, even if you haven’t reached the maximum distance
of your jump. If the distance you fall is no more than the height
of your jump, you take no damage and land upright. When
attempting a High Jump or Long Jump during a Flamboyant
Leap, determine the DC using the Long Jump DCs, and increase
the maximum distance to double your Speed, rather than just
your Speed.
IMPOSSIBLE RIPOSTE
FEAT 14
SWASHBUCKLER
Prerequisites Opportune Riposte
Your ripostes can deflect attacks back at their source. You can
use Opportune Riposte with a trigger of “A foe outside of your
reach critically fails an attack roll against you” in addition to
its usual trigger. When you use Opportune Riposte with this
new trigger against a ranged attack, your Strike deflects some
of the triggering effect back toward its source. Compare the
result of your attack roll to the AC of the triggering foe. On
a hit, you deal the normal amount of damage for your Strike,
but the damage type changes to that of the triggering attack.
For instance, if you used Opportune Riposte to deflect a ray of
frost, your Strike would deal cold damage instead of its normal
damage type.
PERFECT FINISHER [one-action]
FEAT 14
FINISHER
FORTUNE
SWASHBUCKLER
You focus your panache into an impeccable assault. Make a
Strike, rolling the attack roll twice and using the better result.
TWINNED DEFENSE [one-action]
FEAT 14
STANCE
SWASHBUCKLER
Prerequisites Twin Parry
Requirements You wield two melee weapons, one in each hand.
You’re always ready to use your off-hand weapon to interfere
with attacks against you. While you are in this stance, you
constantly gain the benefits of the Twin Parry action.
16TH LEVEL
DEADLY GRACE
FEAT 16
SWASHBUCKLER
Your graceful attacks are especially powerful. When you
score a critical hit with an agile or finesse melee weapon
that has the deadly trait, you double the number of dice
from that trait. When you wield an agile or finesse melee
weapon that doesn’t have the deadly trait, it gains the
deadly d8 trait instead.
FELICITOUS RIPOSTE
FEAT 16
FORTUNE
SWASHBUCKLER
You take advantage of your foe’s openings with uncanny odds.
Classes
2
93
93
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Archetypes
Feats
Spells
items
glossary
& index
