1ST LEVEL
EMPATHETIC PLEA [reaction]
FEAT 1
AUDITORY
EMOTION
GNOME
MENTAL
VISUAL
Prerequisites trained in Diplomacy
Trigger You are attacked by a creature that
you haven’t yet acted hostile toward.
You must use this reaction before the
creature rolls its attack.
The way you cringe or use those puppy-
dog eyes you’ve been practicing elicits
an empathetic response in the attacker.
Attempt a Diplomacy check against your
attacker’s Will DC.
Critical Success The creature pulls its attack, wasting its
action, and can’t use hostile actions against you
until the beginning of its next turn.
Success The creature takes a –2 circumstance
penalty to damage on the triggering Strike
and all its Strikes against you until the beginning
of its next turn. The penalty is –4 if you’re an expert in
Diplomacy, –6 if you’re a master, and –8 if you’re legendary.
Failure The creature’s attack is unaffected, and the creature is
temporarily immune to your Empathic Pleas for 24 hours.
RAZZLE-DAZZLE [free-action]
FEAT 1
GNOME
Frequency once per hour
Trigger You blind or dazzle a creature.
You’ve spent considerable time practicing the manipulation
of light, weaponizing your blade’s reflection or bolstering the
luminosity of magical displays to unconventional heights.
Extend the duration of the blinded or dazzled condition you
give the target by 1 round.
5TH LEVEL
PROJECT PERSONA [one-action]
FEAT 5
CONCENTRATE
GNOME
ILLUSION
PRIMAL
VISUAL
Where others etch their armor to serve as a conduit for their
imaginations, your vivid mind and bold personality allow you to
project a more fitting persona over your lackluster armor. You
change the shape and appearance of your armor to appear as
ordinary or fine clothes of your imagining. The armor’s statistics
don’t change. This effect lasts as long as you remain conscious
and are wearing the armor. A creature can disbelieve the illusion
by Seeking or touching your armor. The DC equals your Will DC.
9TH LEVEL
CAUTIOUS CURIOSITY
FEAT 9
GNOME
Prerequisites at least one arcane or occult innate spell gained
from a gnome heritage or gnome ancestry feat
You’ve learned a few magical techniques for getting
yourself both into and out of trouble unnoticed.
You gain misdirection and silence as 2nd-level
arcane or occult innate spells. The tradition of
these spells must match the tradition you
use for your gnome ancestry options.
You can cast each spell once per day
and can target only yourself.
LIFE LEAP [one-action]
FEAT 9
GNOME
MOVE
NECROMANCY
TELEPORTATION
Requirements You must be adjacent to a living
creature.
You phase through a space that a living creature
occupies in a flash, spontaneously appearing
on the opposite side of it in a vibrant display
of colorful light. You move from your
current location to another location that’s
still adjacent to the same living creature,
but on the opposite side or corner of the creature’s space. To
determine whether a position is valid, use the same rules as
for flanking: a line through the center of the two spaces must
pass through opposite sides or corners of the creature’s space.
You pass through the creature’s life force, appearing in
the selected location; this doesn’t trigger reactions based on
movement. You must be able to see your destination, and you
can’t move farther than your Speed would allow.
13TH LEVEL
INSTINCTIVE OBFUSCATION [reaction]
FEAT 13
GNOME
ILLUSION
VISUAL
Prerequisites at least one arcane or occult innate spell gained
from a gnome heritage or gnome ancestry feat
Frequency once per day
Trigger You are attacked by a foe.
The magic within you manifests as a natural reaction to
threats. You gain the effects of mirror image but with two
images instead of three. The tradition of this action matches
the tradition of your gnome ancestry options.
17TH LEVEL
HOMEWARD BOUND
FEAT 17
GNOME
Frequency twice per week
The connection between you and the First World resonates
within your body stronger than it does for most gnomes,
allowing you to cross the threshold between the Material
Plane and the First World. You gain plane shift as a primal
innate spell. You can cast it twice per week. This can be used
only to travel back and forth between the First World and the
Material Plane. Due to your body’s natural resonance, you can
act as the spell focus, and you don’t require a tuning fork.
Gnome Ancestry Feats
Advanced Player's Guide
44
44
