Spellcasting archetypes always grant the ability to cast
cantrips in their dedication, and then they have a basic
spellcasting feat, an expert spellcasting feat, and a master
spellcasting feat. These feats share their name with the
archetype; for instance, the witch’s master spellcasting
feat is called Master Witch Spellcasting. All spell slots
you gain from spellcasting archetypes are subject to
the restrictions within the archetype. For instance, the
eldritch archer archetype allows you to pick a spell list
when you take its dedication feat. If you pick arcane
spells, the archetype then grants you spell slots you can
use only to cast arcane spells from your eldritch archer
repertoire, even if you are a sorcerer with occult spells in
your sorcerer repertoire.
Basic Spellcasting Feat: Usually available at 4th level,
these feats grant a 1st-level spell slot. At 6th level, they
grant you a 2nd-level spell slot, and if you have a spell
repertoire, you can select one spell from your repertoire
as a signature spell. At 8th level, they grant you a
3rd-level spell slot. Archetypes refer to these benefits as
the “basic spellcasting benefits.”
Expert Spellcasting Feat: Typically taken at 12th
level, these feats make you an expert in spell attack rolls
and DCs of the appropriate magical tradition and grant
you a 4th-level spell slot. If you have a spell repertoire,
you can select a second spell from your repertoire as a
signature spell. At 14th level, they grant you a 5th-level
spell slot, and at 16th level, they grant you a 6th-level
spell slot. Archetypes refer to these benefits as the
“expert spellcasting benefits.”
Master Spellcasting Feat: Usually found at 18th level,
these feats make you a master in spell attack rolls and
DCs of the appropriate magical tradition and grant
you a 7th-level spell slot. If you have a spell repertoire,
you can select a third spell from your repertoire as a
signature spell. At 20th level, they grant you an 8th-level
spell slot. Archetypes refer to these benefits as the
“master spellcasting benefits.”
ALCHEMICAL ARCHETYPES
Some archetypes give you abilities to use alchemy
in a similar manner to an alchemist and say that you
get the basic alchemy benefits. This means you get the
Alchemical Crafting feat, infused reagents (a pool of
reagents usable to make alchemical items), and advanced
alchemy (allowing you to make alchemical items during
your daily preparations without the normal cost or time
expenditure). The individual archetype might impose
special restrictions or benefits, or adjust the number of
reagents you get or your advanced alchemy level. The
rules for these are in the Core Rulebook: Alchemical
Crafting on page 258, and rules for infused reagents and
advanced alchemy are on page 72.
If you gain infused reagents from more than one
source, you use the highest number of reagents to
determine your pool rather than adding them together.
For instance, at 2nd level an alchemist with a +4
Intelligence modifier would normally get six batches of
infused reagents per day from the class, and a character
with the Herbalist Dedication feat would normally get
two batches. A character who is both an alchemist and
an herbalist has six batches—the higher number from
alchemist—but is able to use them for abilities in the
class or the archetype. Your advanced alchemy level
always depends on which ability you’re using. In the
example above, the herbalist’s advanced alchemy level
for their herbalist abilities is 1st, though it’s 2nd for
alchemist abilities.
TEMPORARY ITEMS
Several archetypes allow you to prepare temporary items.
Much like the infused items created by alchemists, these
temporary items last only a short time before becoming
useless. Examples include temporary scrolls created by
the scroll trickster and temporary weapons, armor, or
adventuring gear created by the scrounger.
Temporary items are clearly not up to the same
quality as other items, so they typically can’t be sold. If
an ability doesn’t list how long a temporary item lasts,
the item lasts until the next time you make your daily
preparations. Any effect created by a temporary item
also ends at that time if it hasn’t already (unless it’s a
permanent effect).
KEY TERMS
You’ll see these terms within this chapter’s archetypes.
Flourish: Actions with this trait are special techniques
that require too much exertion for you to perform frequently.
You can use only 1 action with the flourish trait per turn.
Metamagic: Actions with the metamagic trait tweak
the properties of your spells. These actions usually come
from metamagic feats. You must use the metamagic action
directly before Casting the Spell you want to alter. If you
use any action (including free actions and reactions) other
than Cast a Spell directly after, you waste the benefits of
the metamagic action. Any additional effects added by a
metamagic action are part of the spell’s effect, not of the
metamagic action itself.
Open: These maneuvers work only as the first salvo in
the attacks you make on your turn. You can use an action
with the open trait only if you haven’t used an action with
the attack or open trait yet this turn.
Stance: A stance is a general combat strategy that
you enter by using an action with the stance trait, and
you remain in that stance for some time. A stance lasts
until you get knocked out, until its requirements (if any)
are violated, until the encounter ends, or until you enter a
new stance, whichever comes first. After you use an action
with the stance trait, you can’t use another one for 1 round.
You can enter or be in a stance only in encounter mode.
Advanced Player's Guide
150
150
