At 7th level, you can use skill increases to become a
master in a skill in which you’re already an expert, and
at 15th level, you can use them to become legendary in a
skill in which you’re already a master.
GENERAL FEATS
3RD
At 3rd level and every 4 levels thereafter, you gain a
general feat.
KEEN RECOLLECTION
3RD
You can recall pertinent facts on topics that aren’t your
specialty. Your proficiency bonus to untrained skill checks
to Recall Knowledge is equal to your level instead of +0.
SKILLFUL LESSONS
3RD
At 3rd level and every odd-numbered level thereafter, you
gain a skill feat. This feat must be for an Intelligence-,
Wisdom-, or Charisma-based skill, or for the skill you
gained from your methodology.
ABILITY BOOSTS
5TH
At 5th level and every 5 levels thereafter, you boost four
different ability scores. You can use these ability boosts to
increase your ability scores above 18. Boosting an ability
score increases it by 1 if it’s already 18 or above, or by 2
if it starts out below 18.
ANCESTRY FEATS
5TH
In addition to the ancestry feat you started with, you gain
an ancestry feat at 5th level and every 4 levels thereafter.
WEAPON EXPERTISE
5TH
You’ve dedicated yourself to learning the intricacies of
your weapons. Your proficiency ranks for simple weapons,
martial weapons, and unarmed attacks increase to expert.
VIGILANT SENSES
7TH
Through your adventures, you’ve developed keen
awareness and attention to detail. Your proficiency rank
in Perception increases to master.
WEAPON SPECIALIZATION
7TH
You can inflict greater injuries with the weapons you know
best. You deal 2 additional damage with weapons and
unarmed attacks in which you are an expert. This damage
increases to 3 if you’re a master and 4 if you’re legendary.
GREAT FORTITUDE
9TH
Your physique is incredibly hardy. Your proficiency rank
for Fortitude saves increases to expert.
INVESTIGATOR EXPERTISE
9TH
You’ve refined your investigative techniques to an
exceptional degree. Your circumstance bonus from Pursue
a Lead increases to +2. Your proficiency rank for your
investigator class DC increases to expert.
DEDUCTIVE IMPROVISATION
11TH
You use your skills at deduction to perform whatever task
is necessary to solve the case. You can attempt any check
that requires you to be trained in a skill, even if you’re
untrained in it; you can attempt any check that requires
you to have expert proficiency in a skill so long as you’re
trained in it; and you can attempt any check that requires
you to have master proficiency in a skill as long as you
have expert proficiency in it.
RESOLVE
11TH
You’ve steeled your mind with resolve. Your proficiency
rank for Will saves increases to master. When you roll a
success on a Will save, you get a critical success instead.
INCREDIBLE SENSES
13TH
You notice things that are almost impossible for an
ordinary person to detect. Your proficiency rank for
Perception increases to legendary.
LIGHT ARMOR EXPERTISE
13TH
You’ve learned how to dodge while wearing light or
no armor. Your proficiency ranks for light armor and
unarmored defense increase to expert.
WEAPON MASTERY
13TH
You fully understand your weapons. Your proficiency
ranks for simple weapons, martial weapons, and unarmed
attacks increase to master.
EVASION
15TH
You’ve learned to move quickly to avoid explosions, a
dragon’s breath, and worse. Your proficiency rank for
Reflex saves increases to master. When you roll a success
on a Reflex save, you get a critical success instead.
GREATER WEAPON SPECIALIZATION
15TH
Your damage from weapon specialization increases to 4
with weapons and unarmed attacks in which you’re an
expert, 6 if you’re a master, and 8 if you’re legendary.
GREATER RESOLVE
17TH
Your unbelievable training grants you mental resiliency.
Your proficiency rank for Will saves increases to
legendary. When you roll a success on a Will save, you get
a critical success. When you roll a critical failure on a Will
save, you get a failure instead. When you fail a Will save
against a damaging effect, you take half damage.
LIGHT ARMOR MASTERY
19TH
Your skill with light armor improves, increasing your
ability to dodge blows. Your proficiency ranks for light
armor and unarmored defense increase to master.
MASTER DETECTIVE
19TH
As a master detective, you can solve any case and find all the
Classes
2
59
59
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Archetypes
Feats
Spells
items
glossary
& index
