first Strike you make against the creature this round, not any
subsequent attacks.
When you make this substitution, you can also add your
Intelligence modifier to your attack roll instead of your
Strength or Dexterity modifier, provided your Strike uses an
agile or finesse melee weapon, an agile or finesse unarmed
attack, a ranged weapon (which must be agile or finesse if it’s
a melee weapon with the thrown trait), or a sap.
If you’re aware that the creature you choose is the subject of
a lead you’re pursuing, you can use this ability as a free action.
METHODOLOGY
Your studies have made you savvy in many areas,
but one in particular drew your intense interest.
Choose a methodology. The methodologies
presented in this book are as follows.
AlchemicAl ScienceS
Your methodology emphasizes chemical and
alchemical analysis, collecting information from
unusual particles and fluids found on the scene. You
possess enough alchemical know-how to whip up a
few tinctures to help you with your cases.
You’re trained in Crafting and gain the Alchemical
Crafting skill feat (Core Rulebook 258). In addition,
you gain a standard formula book for free and learn the
formulas for two additional common 1st-level alchemical
items, which must be elixirs or tools. Each time
you gain a level, you learn the formula for one
common alchemical elixir or alchemical tool
of any level of item you can create.
During your daily preparations, you can create
a number of versatile vials—alchemical concoctions
that can quickly be turned into elixirs and tools—
equal to your Intelligence modifier. You can use the Quick
Tincture action to turn one of these vials into an elixir or
alchemical tool for which you know the formula.
QUICK TINCTURE [one-action]
INVESTIGATOR
MANIPULATE
Cost 1 versatile vial
Requirements You know the formula for the alchemical
item you’re creating, you are holding or wearing
alchemist’s tools, and you have a free hand.
You quickly brew up a short-lived tincture. You
create a single alchemical elixir or tool of your
level or lower without having to spend the normal
monetary cost in alchemical reagents or needing to
attempt a Crafting check. This item has the infused trait,
but it remains potent only until the end of the current turn.
empiriciSm
Everything comes down to data. Calculating statistics,
running numbers, and using inductive reasoning allows
you to determine the most likely outcome of any scenario,
and anything out of place draws your keen attention.
You are trained in one Intelligence-based skill of your
choice. You gain the That’s Odd investigator feat (page
60), and you gain the Expeditious Inspection free action.
EXPEDITIOUS INSPECTION [free-action]
INVESTIGATOR
Frequency once per 10 minutes
You observe and assess your surroundings with great speed.
You Recall Knowledge, Seek, or Sense Motive.
Classes
2
57
57
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Archetypes
Feats
Spells
items
glossary
& index
