TABLE 5–1: RITUALS BY LEVEL
Level
Ritual
Heartbond
2
Reincarnate
3
Unseen custodians
3
Rest eternal
4
Simulacrum
4
Astral projection
5
Heroes’ feast
5
Ward domain
6
Teleportation circle
7
Word of recall
7
Create demiplane
8
Clone
9
Fantastic facade
9
ASTRAL PROJECTION
RITUAL 5
UNCOMMON
DIVINATION
Cast 1 hour; Cost one jacinth worth a total value of the target’s
level (minimum 1) × 5 gp, for each target; Secondary Casters 2
Primary Check Arcana or Occultism (master); Secondary
Checks Arcana or Occultism (whichever isn’t used for the
primary check), Survival
Range touch; Targets yourself and up to 5 willing creatures
Duration see text
You project the targets’ spiritual essences into the Astral Plane,
leaving their inanimate physical forms behind. These astral
forms can be used to explore the Astral Plane indefinitely, while
the targets’ bodies remain safely in stasis on the plane where
the ritual was cast (where they remain unconscious and can’t
be awoken normally). The casters must be in physical contact
with one another in a circle for the duration of the casting, and
all targets must be selected from these casters.
A target’s astral form is a duplicate of the target and everything
they’re carrying; anything that happens to a duplicate item
happens to the original as well. For instance, if you use, spend,
destroy, lose, or give away an item’s duplicate, the original vanishes
from your possession. For the duration of the ritual, any of the
targets can spend a single action to Dismiss their astral form and
immediately return to their physical body. As the primary caster,
when you Dismiss your astral form, you can also Dismiss all the
other targets’ astral forms as part of the same action, returning
all targets to their physical forms simultaneously. While in the
Astral Plane, the other targets are unable to navigate without
you, and if they become separated from you, they must wait for
your return or Dismiss their own astral forms. When the ritual
ends, the targets’ astral forms vanish.
A target’s astral form and corresponding physical form are
linked by an incorporeal silver cord, which is visible only in the
Astral Plane. This nearly unbreakable cord serves as a conduit
and safety line; if it is severed, the target’s astral and physical
forms are both immediately slain. If the ritual is interrupted by
an external force, such as dispel magic being cast on a target’s
physical or astral form, the target is immediately and harmlessly
returned to their physical body. If a target’s astral form is slain,
the silver cord immediately rips them back to their physical
body; the strain requires them to attempt a Fortitude save with
the same DC as the ritual’s primary check. On a failure, the
creature dies; on a success, they become clumsy 2, drained 2,
doomed 2, and enfeebled 2 for 1 week; these conditions can’t be
removed or reduced by any means until the week has passed. A
target’s physical body remains in suspended animation for the
duration of the ritual, but if it is destroyed, they die and their
astral form also vanishes.
This ritual only projects a portion of the targets’
consciousnesses onto the Astral Plane. To travel physically
to the Astral Plane (to reach the Outer Planes, for example)
requires spells such as plane shift.
Critical Success All targets are able to navigate independently
in the Astral Plane. Each target’s silver cord is stronger than
usual, providing them a +4 circumstance bonus to their
Fortitude save to avoid dying if their astral form dies.
Success You successfully project the targets.
Failure You fail to project the targets.
Critical Failure The process of separating the targets’ spirits
from their bodies is complicated, and something goes
catastrophically wrong. All casters become doomed 1, are
immediately reduced to 0 Hit Points, and begin dying.
CLONE
RITUAL 9
RARE
NECROMANCY
Cast 7 days; Cost rare laboratory supplies and reagents worth
the target’s level (minimum 1) × 100 gp; Secondary Casters 3
Primary Check Crafting (legendary); Secondary Checks
Arcana, Occultism, Medicine
Range 10 feet; Targets 1 living creature up to 20th level
You remove 1 cubic inch of flesh from the target, who must be
present throughout the ritual and can be one of the casters.
You then use that flesh to grow a duplicate of the target’s
physical form that will house the target’s soul upon death.
This duplicate is physically identical to the original creature.
In order to perform the ritual, you need an expanded
alchemist’s lab (Core Rulebook 288) or a superior set of
equipment. Once the ritual is successfully completed, the
duplicate grows within the laboratory equipment for 2d4
months. While direct involvement isn’t required during this
period of growth, you must prevent any interference or
interruption or the ritual fails. When the duplicate is complete,
the original creature’s soul enters it as soon as their original
body dies, or immediately if the creature died during the
RITUALS
Rituals take much longer to cast than most spells and can be performed by anyone who
is skilled enough, not just spellcasters. The rules for casting rituals appear on page 408
of the Core Rulebook.
Advanced Player's Guide
240
240
