Horizon Walker
Many long for the open road, but you prefer the trackless
wild. You can find safe passage through the most inhospitable
terrain in the world—icecaps, deserts, and similar environs
are where you’re comfortable. Your talents open untrod
paths for you and help guide others through the wilderness.
Additional Feats: 10th Blind-Fight (Core Rulebook
173), Terrain Master (Core Rulebook 174); 12th Warden’s
Step (Core Rulebook 175).
HORIZON WALKER DEDICATION
FEAT 2
ARCHETYPE
DEDICATION
Prerequisites trained in Survival
You’ve mastered travel within a specific type of terrain. You
gain the Favored Terrain feat (Core Rulebook 171). When in
your favored terrain, you gain a +10-foot circumstance bonus
to your travel Speed. When other creatures Follow the Expert
with you as a guide in your favored terrain, they gain both the
ability to ignore non-magical difficult terrain for the purpose
of their travel Speed and the bonus to travel Speed.
Special You can’t select another dedication feat until you have
gained two other feats from the horizon walker archetype.
ACCLIMATIZATION
FEAT 4
ARCHETYPE
Prerequisites Horizon
Walker Dedication
Your time spent in the hostile parts of the world
has inured you to extreme climates. In your favored terrain,
you gain resistance equal to half your level to all environmental
damage and are affected by temperature effects as though
they were one step less severe (incredible heat or cold becomes
extreme, extreme heat or cold becomes severe, and so on).
When other creatures Follow the Expert with you as a guide in
your favored terrain, they too treat temperature effects as one
step less severe.
SURE FOOT
FEAT 4
ARCHETYPE
SKILL
Prerequisites Horizon Walker Dedication, expert in Acrobatics
and Athletics
You know the secrets of moving in your favored terrain. You
gain a +2 circumstance bonus to skill checks to move within
your favored terrain, such as Acrobatics checks to Balance
on ice, Athletics checks to Swim in rough water, Acrobatics
checks to Fly in windy conditions, and so forth.
PERPETUAL SCOUT
FEAT 6
ARCHETYPE
Prerequisites Horizon Walker Dedication
You spot anything out of place in the areas you know
best. While in your favored terrain, you always gain
the benefits of the Scout exploration activity,
even if you are performing another exploration
activity. If you’re legendary in Survival, you
gain these benefits in any terrain.
MAGICAL ADAPTATION
FEAT 10
ARCHETYPE
Prerequisites Horizon Walker Dedication
When an obstacle bars your path, you pull a trick from your
sleeve to overcome it. You can cast darkvision, spider climb,
and 4th-level water breathing as innate primal spells, each
once per day.
WILD STRIDER
FEAT 12
ARCHETYPE
Prerequisites Horizon Walker Dedication
Natural obstacles pose no obstacle to you. You gain the
ranger’s wild stride class feature. This allows you to ignore
the effects of all non-magical difficult terrain, treat greater
difficult terrain as merely difficult terrain, and gives you
an additional benefit from Favored Terrain based on
the terrain.
Archetypes
3
177
177
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Archetypes
Feats
Spells
items
glossary
& Index
