PLANAR SCIONS
Countless legends tell of mortals and immortals entwined, and of the children born
to those lovers. These children, known as planar scions, are mortals who inherit the
supernatural essence of another plane, which manifests through their distinctive physical
features and otherworldly powers. There are as many types of planar scions as there
are creatures in the Great Beyond, but this section presents rules for three: the celestial
aasimars, psychopomp-infused duskwalkers, and fiend-blooded tieflings.
Aasimar
Born with the power of benevolent celestial entities,
aasimars are thought to be supremely blessed with strength
of will, extraordinary beauty, and innate magical gifts. But
many aasimars find that these perceived talents—whether
they actually have them or not—set them apart from their
friends and family, fostering loneliness in themselves and
jealousy in others. Aasimars with a positive outlook face
these challenges by serving their communities, populating
the environment with kindness or artwork, or simply
supporting those who are less fortunate. Some aasimars
hold a more hostile worldview, however, and risk falling
into resentment, despair, or even the temptations of evil.
Even then, the stereotypes surrounding an aasimar cling
close, causing others to view them as tragic figures in need
of redemption.
The powers and physical appearances passed down
from celestial beings vary according to an aasimar’s
lineage. Those who descend from archons are sometimes
known as lawbringers, while those who possess angelic
blood are called angelkin, and those related to azatas are
referred to as musetouched.
If you want a character brimming with celestial power,
unique physical characteristics and the potential for
strong faith, you should play an aasimar.
YOU MIGHT...
• Possess a strong sense of fashion, favor exquisitely
crafted tools, or carry yourself with instinctual grace.
• Feel a strong kinship with outcasts, orphans, or others
who have been misunderstood or marginalized.
• Have a beloved pet or a close relationship with a
sibling or childhood friend.
OTHERS PROBABLY...
• Assume you are a supernatural messenger from beyond
or whole-heartedly enjoy your supernatural legacy.
• Treat you with worship or reverence, but distance
you by putting you on a pedestal.
• Think you can provide simple and free supernatural
solutions for all their problems.
PHYSICAL DESCRIPTION
An aasimar’s physical appearance depends as much upon
the features of their parents as it does upon the nature of
their celestial heritage. While an aasimar is recognizably
a member of their humanoid ancestry, they always bear
a few physical traits that set them apart, such as glowing
eyes, a faint halo of light above their head, feathers for
hair, antennae on the brow, a metallic sheen to the skin,
lack of a belly button, a strangely musical voice, or a
naturally pleasing floral scent. It’s a common stereotype
that all aasimars are handsome or beautiful—another
assumption aasimars face throughout their lives.
SOCIETY
Aasimars are too widely dispersed in most regions to create
societies of their own, and they instead tend to assimilate
into the society and culture of their mortal parents. They
thrive in societies that hold freedom, civility, and justice as
virtues. Whether due to inborn charm and confidence or
others’ tendency to ascribe greater weight to their words,
aasimars often find themselves in positions of leadership,
even when they don’t seek out such roles, and they must
take care that their actions and words don’t unduly
influence others. When aasimars gather in numbers large
enough to develop their own societies, they tend to be
tightly knit but open and friendly to visitors, yet swift in
their justice against proven enemies.
ALIGNMENT AND RELIGION
An aasimar’s celestial nature doesn’t force goodness or
faith into their life—each aasimar is free to form their own
personality and beliefs. In many cases, these beliefs are
shaped by the nature of their upbringing, their parents, and
the society in which they were raised. Most aasimars are
good, whether because society tends to accept, foster, and
support aasimars, or because the influence of the celestial
planes is enough to subtly encourage them down such
paths. Good faiths are more likely to draw an aasimar’s
attention, particularly those with portfolios associated
with celestial concerns, such as Desna, Erastil, or Sarenrae.
Those who choose lives of evil tend to be particularly cruel
or sadistic, almost as if they feel the need to work that
much harder to justify and pursue their life choices.
AASIMAR (UNCOMMON HERITAGE)
You descend from celestials or were touched by the
celestial realms, gaining an air of awe and grace, as
well as features distinctive to your celestial forebears.
Advanced Player's Guide
34
34
