negatively impact living creatures. Once lit, the incense burns
for 1 minute, and it can’t be extinguished.
OIL OF OBJECT ANIMATION
ITEM 8+
UNCOMMON
CONSUMABLE
MAGICAL
OIL
TRANSMUTATION
Usage held in 2 hands; Bulk —
Activate [two-actions] Interact
This fine golden oil comes in a small blue canister. Carefully
spreading the oil over an object turns it into an animated
object (Bestiary 20) of the same type. For example, sprinkling
it on a statue makes an animated statue. If the animated
object’s level would be greater than 3, the oil struggles to
animate it and ultimately fails.
This animated object has the minion trait, meaning it can use
2 actions when you Command it. You can issue a Command for
the current turn as part of the activation. The object remains
animated for 1 minute before falling inert. As usual, you can
have a maximum of four minions under your control.
Type oil of object animation; Level 8; Price 85 gp
Type greater oil of object animation; Level 16; Price 1,400 gp
You can animate an object with a level of 11 or lower.
OIL OF REVELATION
ITEM 5
CONSUMABLE
EVOCATION
MAGICAL
OIL
Price 25 gp
Usage held in 2 hands; Bulk L
Activate [one-action] Interact
This bright oil, first created by humans as a tool to help them
fight in darkness, holds flecks of tiny gemstones in suspension
and smells like a struck tindertwig.
The first time a weapon coated with this oil damages a
creature, the wound glows with light for 1 minute. If the creature
is invisible, the light’s position means it is merely hidden to
creatures that would otherwise be unable to see it, rather than
undetected. The light also negates the concealed condition due
to lighting conditions. If the coated weapon doesn’t damage a
creature within 1 hour, the oil sloughs off and loses its power.
OIL OF UNLIFE
ITEM 1+
CONSUMABLE
MAGICAL
NECROMANCY
NEGATIVE
OIL
Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk L
Activate [one-action] Interact
This thin, black liquid imparts a bone-deep chill while
rapidly repairing an undead creature’s physical or
spiritual form. When you dash oil of unlife onto an
undead creature, or a living creature with negative
healing, the oil absorbs quickly into its body, and the
creature regains the listed number of Hit Points.
You can pour oil of unlife on an incorporeal undead;
in this case, the creature absorbs the oil into itself.
Type minor; Level 1; Price 4 gp
The oil restores 1d8 Hit Points.
Type lesser; Level 3; Price 12 gp
The oil restores 2d8+5 Hit Points.
Type moderate; Level 6; Price 50 gp
The oil restores 3d8+10 Hit Points.
Type greater; Level 12; Price 400 gp
The oil restores 6d8+20 Hit Points.
Type major; Level 18; Price 5,000 gp
The oil restores 8d8+30 Hit Points.
POTION OF DISGUISE
ITEM 5+
UNCOMMON
CONSUMABLE
MAGICAL
POLYMORPH
POTION
TRANSMUTATION
Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk L
Activate [one-action] Interact
Upon imbibing this potion, you take on the appearance of a
specific type of creature for 2d12 hours. The type of creature is
determined when the potion is created. For example, you might
have a potion of elf disguise or potion of frog disguise. Drinking the
potion doesn’t impart the knowledge of how long the effect lasts;
the GM rolls the duration in secret.
The disguise doesn’t change your traits or statistics, nor does
it give you any of the special abilities of the creature you’re
imitating. It might affect what items you can hold or wear (for
example, your new form might lack opposable thumbs). The
potion shrinks you down to a minimum of size Small, or maintains
your size if the creature is your size or larger. For example, if you
are Medium and drink a potion of fire giant disguise, you’ll take on
the appearance of a fire giant but remain Medium. The creature
has to be of a specific kind, such as “leopard” or “lion” rather than
just “cat,” or “fire giant” or “ogre” rather than just “giant,” but the
potion can’t cause you to mimic a specific individual creature.
The effects of this potion use the same rules as the Impersonate
activity of Deception. Onlookers always assume you’re the
chosen type of creature unless they’re actively Seeking. You gain
a +4 status bonus to your Deception DC against such Perception
checks and add your level even if untrained.
Type lesser; Level 5; Price 30 gp; Craft Requirements Initial
raw materials must include a bit of blood, hair, or flesh of
the creature the potion will allow the drinker to imitate.
Type moderate; Level 8; Price 100 gp; Craft Requirements
Initial raw materials must include a bit of blood, hair, or flesh
of the creature the potion will allow the drinker to imitate.
The potion can increase your size if the creature is larger
than you, to a maximum of Large, and it can shrink you to
a creature of size Tiny. This doesn’t change any of your
statistics, with the exception of reducing your reach to 0
feet as a Tiny creature.
Type greater; Level 11; Price 300 gp
While drinking a greater potion of disguise, if you picture
the specific form you want to transform into, the potion
will change you into that form. You can attempt to
Impersonate a specific individual, though you still
need to roll Deception.
POTION OF EXPEDITIOUS RETREAT
ITEM 1
CONSUMABLE
MAGICAL
POTION
TRANSMUTATION
Price 3 gp
Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk L
Activate [one-action] Interact
The stopper for a potion of expeditious retreat is crafted to
Advanced Player's Guide
258
258
