You can communicate telepathically with your animal
companions within 100 feet. If you’re legendary in Nature, you
can communicate telepathically with your animal companions
anywhere on the planet.
BEASTMASTER’S CALL [one-action]
FEAT 12
ARCHETYPE
AUDITORY
CONCENTRATE
PRIMAL
Prerequisites Beastmaster Dedication, Call Companion
Frequency once per turn
You quickly call in a primal projection of a non-active
companion to provide the companion’s support benefit. The
projection arrives in an unoccupied square of your choice
within 30 feet of you, grants you its support benefit, and then
disappears on your next turn. The projection has the same AC
and saving throw modifiers as the real companion, and if it
would take any damage before your next turn, it disappears
and the support benefit ends immediately.
SPECIALIZED BEASTMASTER COMPANION
FEAT 14
ARCHETYPE
Prerequisites Incredible Beastmaster Companion
Your nimble and savage animal companions become
cunning enough to become specialized. Each companion
gains one specialization of your choice (Core Rulebook 217,
choose separately).
Special You can select this feat more than once. Each time,
add a different specialization to your nimble and savage
companions. Your nimble and savage companions can have up
to three specializations each.
LEAD THE PACK
FEAT 16
UNCOMMON
ARCHETYPE
Prerequisites Mature Beastmaster Companion, you have
multiple animal companions
You can have up to two animal companions active at once.
However, when you do, it’s slightly more difficult to Command
them. If you don’t Command either of your companions, one
of the two (your choice) can still use 1 action on your turn
to Stride or Strike, as per Mature Beastmaster Companion,
but not both. When you Command an Animal, either choose
one of the companions to take 2 actions, as normal, or else
both companions can take 1 action to Stride or Strike.
Either way, you can’t Command an Animal to make either
companion act again until your next turn.
BEASTMASTER FOCUS SPELLS
BEASTMASTER TRANCE
FOCUS 3
ARCHETYPE
CONCENTRATE
DIVINATION
MENTAL
Cast [three-actions] somatic, verbal
Range 1 mile; Targets one of your animal companions you
can perceive
Duration sustained up to 1 minute
You enter a magical trance that allows you to perceive
through the senses of the target companion. You attempt
Perception checks using your own Perception, but you
have any special senses the target has, such as low-light
vision or darkvision. This spell grants no special method of
communication with the chosen animal, so it follows any
instructions you gave it before you entered the trance and,
failing that, it does as it wishes.
For the duration of the trance, your own senses are
muted, though you can still communicate. This lack
of awareness makes you flat-footed. You can’t take
actions with the attack or move traits.
Heightened (6th) Increase the range to 100 miles
and the duration to sustained up to 10 minutes. The
target can hear you through the spell, allowing you to
Command the Animal or use other actions that have the
auditory trait.
Heightened (8th) Increase the range to planetary and the
duration to sustained up to 1 hour. You can communicate
telepathically with the target for the duration of the trance.
Archetypes
3
161
161
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Archetypes
Feats
Spells
items
glossary
& Index
