RARITY
Uncommon
HIT POINTS
10
SIZE
Medium
SPEED
25 feet
ABILITY BOOSTS
Strength
Free
LANGUAGES
Common
Orcish
Additional languages equal to your
Intelligence modifier (if it’s positive).
Choose from Goblin, Jotun, Terran,
Undercommon, and any other
languages to which you have access
(such as the languages prevalent in
your region).
TRAITS
Orc
Humanoid
DARKVISION
You can see in darkness and dim light
just as well as you can see in bright
light, though your vision in darkness is
in black and white.
the hold stronger, and scars are signs of victories won or hardships survived.
Similarly, many orcs consider large, jutting tusks to be more attractive than
smaller tusks, since the former make more effective weapons. Many orcs also
find tattoos to be attractive, particularly large or painful ones that cover a
significant amount of skin.
SOCIETY
Most orc communities define themselves through two things: pain and glory.
Each earns respect in near equal measure, so long as the pain is borne with
stoicism. An orc with many scars who walks uncomplaining with a broken leg
draws as much admiration as one who wins a great victory on the battlefield.
Power in an orc hold comes from strength or family lineage. The structure
tends to be feudal, with weaker orcs working at the behest of the strong. The
Hold of Belkzen is the largest such society, and power changes hands there
quickly. One mighty orc dying in battle can shake up an entire power structure,
leading to squabbling and duels to decide control. Many orcs who tire of being
subservient split off to form their own warbands, traveling to new territory.
Young orcs are typically raised by the entire community. Indeed, it would
be almost impossible for orcs to raise their young any other way, since twins,
triplets, and even quadruplets are quite common in orc families, as are deaths
among orcs in their child-rearing years. Many orc holds conduct ceremonies
when a young orc comes of age, typically around their tenth or eleventh
birthday, during which the new adults are told what their role in the hold will
be. For communities that practice ritual scarification or tattooing, this is often
when the young orcs receive their first hold-scar or tattoo as well.
Orcs fear very little, but most distrust magic. Magic is seen as a tool that
bypasses the physical and allows the weak to contend with the strong, a belief
that runs at odds with orc values. While they respect the physical might of
Gorumite warpriests, and even druids who take on the forms of great beasts,
they find arcane and occult magic questionable at best and unethical on the
whole. All but the most depraved orc communities see necromancy as a foul art
that steals glory from the dead, and their growing struggles against the undead
have given them newfound common ground with their humanoid neighbors.
ALIGNMENT AND RELIGION
A common orc saying is, “You are the scars that shape you.” Violent, chaotic
lives in violent, chaotic lands mean that most orcs tend heavily toward chaotic
alignments. Gorum, Lamashtu, and Rovagug are all commonly worshiped
among orc communities, though less violent holds worship nature deities like
Gozreh or gods like Sarenrae, whose tenets of fire, redemption, and glory all
hold some appeal to orc sensibilities.
While there are orc deities, their worship is surprisingly uncommon among
orcs. Orcs believe that if a creature has a face and a name, it can be killed, and
so their own deities are targets, rather than objects of reverence. Some orc holds
teach that the greatest members of the hold can earn a chance to challenge the orc
deities for a place amid the pantheon. Most orcs don’t waste their dying moments
praising the divine or praying for a place in the afterlife, but spitting a blood-
flecked warning at their deities, promising a new challenger through broken teeth.
NAMES
Orcs have a harsh, guttural language, and their naming conventions are no
exception. Many orc names are simply the Orcish word for a particularly
desirable trait, such as great strength, height, or ferocity. Orcs commonly
use either their hold name or a name referencing a particularly memorable
accomplishment as their surname.
Ancestries & Backgrounds
1
1717
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Archetypes
Feats
Spells
items
glossary
& index
