SPELLSCALE KOBOLD
A trace of draconic magic flows through your veins.
Choose one cantrip from the arcane spell list (Core
Rulebook 307). You can Cast this Spell as an arcane
innate spell at will. A cantrip is heightened to a spell level
equal to half your level rounded up. You gain the trained
proficiency rank in arcane spell attack rolls and spell
DCs, and your key spellcasting ability is Charisma.
STRONGJAW KOBOLD
Your bloodline is noted for their powerful jaws and sharp
teeth. You gain a jaws unarmed attack that deals 1d6
piercing damage. Your jaws are in the brawling group and
have the finesse and unarmed traits.
VENOMTAIL KOBOLD
A vestigial spur in your tail secretes one dose of deadly
venom each day. You gain the Tail Toxin action.
TAIL TOXIN [one-action]
KOBOLD
POISON
Frequency once per day
Requirements You are wielding a piercing or slashing weapon.
You apply your tail’s venom to a piercing or slashing weapon.
If your next Strike with that weapon before the end of your
next turn hits and deals damage, you deal persistent poison
damage equal to your level to the target.
Ancestry Feats
At 1st level, you gain one ancestry feat, and you gain an
additional ancestry feat every 4 levels thereafter (at 5th,
9th, 13th, and 17th levels). As a kobold, you select from
among the following ancestry feats.
1ST LEVEL
CRINGE [reaction]
FEAT 1
EMOTION
KOBOLD
MENTAL
VISUAL
Trigger A creature you are aware of critically succeeds on a
Strike against you and would deal damage to you.
With pitiful posturing, you cause your foe to pull back a deadly
attack. The attacking creature takes a circumstance penalty to
the damage of the triggering Strike equal to your level + 2. This
penalty applies after doubling the damage for a critical hit. The
attacker is then immune to your Cringe for 24 hours.
DRAGON’S PRESENCE
FEAT 1
KOBOLD
As a member of dragonkind, you project unflappable confidence
(that collapses catastrophically against the deadliest foes).
When you roll a success on a saving throw against a fear
effect, you get a critical success instead. When you roll a failure
against a fear effect, you get a critical failure instead.
In addition, when you attempt to Demoralize a foe of
your level or lower, you gain a +1 circumstance bonus to the
Intimidation check.
KOBOLD BREATH [two-actions]
FEAT 1
ARCANE
EVOCATION
KOBOLD
You channel your draconic exemplar’s power into a gout of
energy that manifests as a 30-foot line or a 15-foot cone,
dealing 1d4 damage. Each creature in the area must attempt a
basic saving throw against the higher of your class DC or spell
DC. You can’t use this ability again for 1d4 rounds.
At 3rd level and every 2 levels thereafter, the damage
increases by 1d4. The shape of the breath, the damage type,
and the saving throw match those of your draconic exemplar
(see Table 1–1). This ability has the trait associated with the
type of damage it deals.
KOBOLD LORE
FEAT 1
KOBOLD
You attentively learned key kobold survival strategies and
mythology from your elders. You gain the trained proficiency
rank in Stealth and Thievery. If you would automatically
become trained in one of those skills (from your background
or class, for example), you instead become trained in a skill of
your choice. You also become trained in Kobold Lore.
SCAMPER [one-action]
FEAT 1
KOBOLD
Requirements You are adjacent to at least one enemy.
You instinctively know how to flee danger. You Stride up to
your Speed, with a +5-foot status bonus to your Speed, and
you gain a +2 circumstance bonus to AC against reactions
triggered by this movement. You must end this movement in a
space that’s not adjacent to any enemy.
SNARE SETTER
FEAT 1
KOBOLD
Prerequisites trained in Crafting
You are adept at the time-honored kobold art of trap making.
You gain the trained proficiency in Crafting. If you were already
trained in Crafting, you instead become trained in a skill of
your choice. You gain access to all uncommon kobold snares.
You gain the Snare Crafting feat, though when choosing your
formulas for that feat, you can also choose from uncommon
kobold snares, as well as common snares.
5TH LEVEL
ALLY’S SHELTER [reaction]
FEAT 5
FORTUNE
KOBOLD
Frequency once per day
Trigger You attempt a saving throw while adjacent to one or
more allies, but you haven’t rolled yet.
In stressful circumstances, you find strength in your allies’
example. Roll the save using an adjacent ally’s modifier for
that type of saving throw instead of your own.
GROVEL [one-action]
FEAT 5
AUDITORY
CONCENTRATE
EMOTION
KOBOLD
MENTAL
Prerequisites trained in Deception
Advanced Player's Guide
1414
