penalty an enemy would take had you succeeded. This ends
after 1 minute or if you issue another Bon Mot and succeed.
CARAVAN LEADER
FEAT 11
GENERAL
Prerequisites Constitution 18, Pick Up the Pace
You know how to get the most effort out of your allies on
the road. When Hustling in a group during exploration mode,
your group can Hustle for as long as the member who could
Hustle longest on their own, plus an additional 20 minutes
beyond that.
CONCEALING LEGERDEMAIN
FEAT 1
GENERAL
SKILL
Prerequisites trained in Thievery
Rather than hide an object somewhere the inspectors won’t
search, you’re skilled at keeping the object on the move so
it’s never where they look. When you Conceal an Object of
light Bulk or less, you can use Thievery instead of Stealth for
your checks and for the DC of an active searcher’s Perception
check. You roll the check only once, but you must continue to
use actions to Conceal an Object throughout the process.
CONSULT THE SPIRITS
FEAT 7
GENERAL
SECRET
SKILL
Prerequisites master in Nature, Occultism, or Religion
Frequency once per day
You have learned rites or meditations that enable you to
perceive minor, invisible spirits within a place. Choose
Nature, Occultism, or Religion when you select this feat.
Nature allows you to contact the spirits of nature that
form leshies, who are born of pure life essence rather than
spiritual energy and can answer questions about natural
features like the location of nearby water or plant life.
Religion reveals the presence of angelic, demonic, or other
spirits in service to divine beings, who provide information
about sources of powerful positive or negative energy, sacred
or profane influences, or the presence of undead. Occultism
allows you to contact lingering spirits, psychic echoes of the
departed dead, and spirits from beyond reality, who tell you
about things like strange auras, effects, or the presence of
unnatural occult beings.
Spend 10 minutes and attempt a check to Recall Knowledge
with the chosen skill; the DC is determined by the GM (usually
a very high DC for the level of the highest-level creature you
might encounter in the area). If you’re legendary in the chosen
skill, you can use this feat once per hour, instead of only once
per day, but you can’t use it again on any area that overlaps a
previous area.
Critical Success The spirits reveal themselves to you and
have a helpful attitude toward you. Only you can perceive
these spirits. They answer three simple questions about
the environment within 100 feet of you, depending on the
skill you chose and thus the type of spirits you contact.
Their answers are almost always a single word, and their
knowledge is limited to within their area of interest.
Success As with a critical success, but the spirits are indifferent
to you and answer only one question.
Failure You are unable to contact the spirits of this place.
Critical Failure You contact one or more malevolent spirits.
They are hostile toward you, though they may not
immediately appear so. They answer up to three questions
but give you information that is harmful to you in some
way, as determined by the GM.
Special You can select this feat multiple times, each
time picking a different skill in which you have the master
proficiency rank. You can use this feat with each skill once per
day (or once per hour, if you’re legendary).
CRAFTER’S APPRAISAL
FEAT 1
GENERAL
SKILL
Prerequisites trained in Crafting
Your knowledge of items’ construction allows you to discern
their magical effects as well. You can use Crafting instead of
a skill associated with a magic tradition to Identify Magic on
magic items, though not on any other sorts of magic.
CRIMINAL CONNECTIONS
FEAT 2
UNCOMMON
GENERAL
SKILL
Prerequisites expert in Society, Streetwise
You have dealings with a variety of unsavory characters,
which you can leverage to trade favors or meet powerful
people. When you’re in an area where you have connections
(typically a settlement where you’ve spent downtime building
connections or possibly another area in the same nation), you
can attempt a Society check to arrange a meeting with an
important criminal, such as a thieves’ guild leader, or ask for
a favor in exchange for a later favor of your contact’s choice.
The GM decides the DC based on the difficulty of the favor and
the figure’s prominence.
DECEPTIVE WORSHIP
FEAT 1
GENERAL
SKILL
Prerequisites trained in Occultism
Members of your cult frequently pass themselves off as
worshippers of other religions. You can use Occultism instead
of Deception to Impersonate a typical worshipper of another
faith or to Lie specifically to claim you are a member of
the faith you are Impersonating. You still need to use the
Deception skill to Impersonate a specific worshipper or to
perform other deceptive actions, such as attempting to Lie
about any other matter.
DISCREET INQUIRY
FEAT 2
GENERAL
SKILL
Prerequisites expert in Deception or Diplomacy
You are subtle in your efforts to learn the things you need
to know. When Gathering Information, you can hide the true
subject of your inquiry among other topics of little interest to
you without increasing the difficulty of the check or taking
more time to Gather Information. Anyone trying to Gather
Information to determine if someone else was asking around
Advanced Player's Guide
204
204
