are among their number. Bolstering your athletic and
martial abilities with mystical talents, you achieve
rare heights with the bow or crossbow—transforming
arrows or bolts into eldritch ammunition, sending
arrows zig-zagging nearly unerringly to their target,
and manifesting arrows that can deliver spells or even
instant death.
While having some spellcasting ability increases your
potential flexibility and power as an eldritch archer,
you might learn the secrets of these arts without being
independently skilled in spellcasting, instead learning
the magic of the bow for its own sake.
Additional Feats: 20th Impossible Volley (Core
Rulebook 153)
ELDRITCH ARCHER DEDICATION
FEAT 6
ARCHETYPE
DEDICATION
MAGICAL
Prerequisites expert in at least one type of bow
You blend magic with your archery, leading to
powerful results.
If you don’t already cast spells from spell slots, you learn to
cast spontaneous spells and gain the Cast a Spell activity. You
gain a spell repertoire with one cantrip of your choice, from
a spell list of your choice. You choose this cantrip from the
common spells on your chosen spell list or from other spells to
which you have access on that list. This cantrip must require
a spell attack roll. You’re trained in spell attack rolls and spell
DCs for that tradition. Your key spellcasting ability for these
spells is Charisma.
If you already cast spells from spell slots, you learn one
additional cantrip from that tradition. If you’re a prepared
caster, you can prepare this spell in addition to your usual
cantrips per day; if you’re a spontaneous caster, you add this
cantrip to your spell repertoire.
You also gain Eldritch Shot.
Eldritch Shot [three-actions] Requirements You are wielding a bow;
Effect You Cast a Spell that takes 1 or 2 actions to cast
and requires a spell attack roll. The effects of the spell do
not occur immediately but are imbued into the bow you’re
wielding. Make a Strike with that bow. Your spell flies with
the ammunition, using your attack roll result to determine
the effects of both the Strike and the spell. This counts
as two attacks for your multiple attack penalty, but you
don’t apply the penalty until after you’ve completed
both attacks.
Special You can’t select another dedication feat until you have
gained two other feats from the eldritch archer archetype.
BASIC ELDRITCH ARCHER SPELLCASTING
FEAT 8
ARCHETYPE
Prerequisites Eldritch Archer Dedication
You gain the basic spellcasting benefits (page 150). Each time
you gain a spell slot of a new level from this archetype, add a
spell of the appropriate spell level to your repertoire, either a
common spell of your chosen tradition or another spell of that
tradition you have learned or discovered.
Eldritch Archer
While many archers see their craft as an art form as
much as a means of battle, a small number of archers
seek to perfect their skills through magic, and you
Advanced Player's Guide
172
172
