Rogue’s Racket
ELDRITCH TRICKSTER
When it comes to a big heist, every rogue worth their salt
knows that magic can throw meticulous plans into chaos,
whether in the form of arcane wards or pesky divinations.
You dabble in magic just enough to help handle these
problems by jury-rigging spells and throwing a bit of
your own magic into the mix. You might be a solitary
thief, performing burglaries that can’t be explained by
skill alone, or a specialist called in by other rogues to
deal with magical security measures. You might even be
on the up-and-up, hired to test magical defenses or even
build them yourself.
Choose a multiclass archetype that has a basic, expert,
and master spellcasting feat. You gain that archetype’s
dedication feat as a bonus feat even though you don’t
meet its level prerequisite, though you must meet its
other prerequisites. For you, the Magical Trickster rogue
feat (Core Rulebook 185) has a prerequisite of 2nd level
instead of 4th level. You can choose the spellcasting
ability score for the multiclass archetype you chose as
your key ability score.
MASTERMIND
Where others might use sleight of hand or a silver tongue
to achieve their objectives, you rely on your intellect to
craft intricate schemes. You likely view your operations
as a chess game, always planning 10 steps ahead where
others might plan three. You might be a detective
determined to solve crimes or a spymaster in the service
of a powerful family or nation. If you operate outside the
law, you might be an aspiring crime lord or information
broker, excellent at directing others toward suitable jobs.
If you successfully identify a creature using Recall
Knowledge, that creature is flat-footed against your
attacks until the start of your next turn; if you critically
succeed, it’s flat-footed against your attacks for 1 minute.
You’re trained in Society and one of the following skills
of your choice: Arcana, Nature, Occultism, or Religion.
You can choose Intelligence as your key ability score.
Rogue Feats
1ST LEVEL
OVEREXTENDING FEINT
FEAT 1
ROGUE
Prerequisites trained in Deception
When you trick a foe, instead of catching them off guard,
you goad them into overextending their next attack. On
a successful Feint, you can use the following success and
critical success effects instead of any other effects that would
occur when you Feint. You can choose a different effect each
time you Feint against a given foe.
Critical Success The target takes a –2 circumstance penalty to
all attack rolls against you before the end of its next turn.
Success The target takes a –2 circumstance penalty to its next
attack roll against you before the end of its next turn.
PLANT EVIDENCE [one-action]
FEAT 1
ROGUE
Prerequisites Pickpocket
You can put a single item you’re holding of light or negligible
Bulk onto a person without them noticing by succeeding at
a Thievery check against their Perception DC. If you have
the ruffian racket, you can do this as a free action when you
successfully Shove a target.
TUMBLE BEHIND
FEAT 1
ROGUE
You tumble under and behind your foe to catch them off guard.
When you successfully Tumble Through, the foe whose space
you passed through is flat-footed against the next attack you
make before the end of your turn.
2ND LEVEL
CLEVER GAMBIT [reaction]
FEAT 2
ROGUE
Prerequisites mastermind racket
Trigger Your Strike critically hits and deals damage to a
creature you’ve identified with Recall Knowledge.
Your battle tactics are aided by your assessment of your foes’
capabilities, allowing you to instantly adjust your movements
to maximum advantage. You Step or Stride; this movement
doesn’t trigger reactions from the triggering creature.
STRONG ARM
FEAT 2
ROGUE
When you Strike with a thrown weapon, the weapon’s range
increment increases 10 feet.
UNDERHANDED ASSAULT [two-actions]
FEAT 2
ROGUE
Prerequisites trained in Stealth
You capitalize on the distraction provided by an ally. You Sneak
up to a foe adjacent to one of your allies. You can roll against
ROGUE
This section presents two new rogue’s rackets, as well as feats that allow
rogues to further scheme and connive to undermine their foes.
Advanced Player's Guide
134
134
