Celebrity
You’re a special personality... and you know it. You’re not
merely comfortable in the spotlight, you crave it. While
the traditional celebrity is a musician or another type of
performer, you could be known for any occupation.
CELEBRITY DEDICATION
FEAT 2
ARCHETYPE
DEDICATION
The more people you have looking at you, the more content
you are, and you take every opportunity to show up others
when their performances are less than perfect. You gain
the Upstage reaction. In addition, when you Earn Income, if
the level of the task is higher than your level, you gain a +1
circumstance bonus to your check to Earn Income.
Upstage [reaction] Trigger A foe attempts a skill check and doesn’t get
a critical success; Effect After your foe has tried their best,
you show everyone how it’s really done. Attempt a check
using the same skill that triggered this reaction.
Critical Success You gain a +1 status bonus to attack rolls,
Perception checks, saving throws, and skill checks until
the end of your next turn.
Success As critical success, except you gain the benefits
only if the triggering creature failed their skill check.
Special You can’t select another dedication feat until you
have gained two other feats from the celebrity archetype.
NEVER TIRE [reaction]
FEAT 4
ARCHETYPE
Prerequisites Celebrity Dedication
Trigger You would gain the fatigued condition.
Requirements You are observed by at least three creatures
who aren’t foes.
As long as you have an audience, you can continue to perform.
Indeed, you must—you have an obligation to your fans! You
delay the effects of the fatigued condition for 1 minute or until
you are no longer observed by the required creatures, whichever
comes first. If the fatigued condition has a duration, the duration
begins to elapse only after the delay. You can’t further delay or
prevent the fatigued condition after this ability ends.
MESMERIZING GAZE [two-actions]
FEAT 6
ARCHETYPE
EMOTION
ENCHANTMENT
MENTAL
VISUAL
Prerequisites Celebrity Dedication
When you meet someone’s gaze, they are unable to look away.
Choose one target creature. That creature must succeed at a
Will save or be fascinated until the end of your next turn; the
DC for this save is equal to your class DC or spell DC, whichever
is higher. If the creature succeeds at its save or its fascination
ends due to a hostile action, it becomes temporarily immune
to your Mesmerizing Gaze for 1 day.
When you select this feat, it gains either the arcane or
occult trait; once you make this choice, you can’t change it.
COMMAND ATTENTION [one-action]
FEAT 10
ARCHETYPE
AUDITORY
EMOTION
ENCHANTMENT
MENTAL
VISUAL
Prerequisites Celebrity Dedication
You command the attention of all around you with style,
ensuring their gaze falls only upon you until the end of your
next turn. When creatures within 30 feet of you attempt saving
throws against other visual effects, they use the outcome for one
degree of success better than the result they rolled. An enemy
within the area attempting to use a visual effect that involves
focusing its attention on a particular creature (such as a medusa’s
Focus Gaze) must succeed at a Will save against your class DC
or spell DC, whichever is higher, in order to target any creature
except you. Allies in the area can attempt to Hide even if they
don’t have cover, as you are continually providing a distraction.
Advanced Player's Guide
166
166
