cleric Feats
1ST LEVEL
PREMONITION OF AVOIDANCE [reaction]
FEAT 1
CLERIC
Trigger You attempt a saving throw against a hazard, but you
haven’t rolled yet.
Your deity grants you limited foresight, warning you of dangers
an instant before they occur. You gain a +2 circumstance
bonus to the triggering saving throw.
VILE DESECRATION
FEAT 1
CLERIC
Prerequisites evil alignment
You combine unholy might with negative energy to damage
angels, archons, and other self-righteous denizens of the
Outer Planes. When you cast a harm spell, you can change the
damage you deal to celestial creatures to evil damage instead
of negative damage.
2ND LEVEL
RAPID RESPONSE [reaction]
FEAT 2
CLERIC
Trigger An ally is reduced to 0 Hit Points.
You work quickly and efficiently in times of danger to deliver
needed assistance. You Stride towards the triggering ally.
You gain a +10-foot circumstance bonus to your Speed
during this movement.
4TH LEVEL
RADIANT INFUSION [one-action]
FEAT 4
CLERIC
CONCENTRATE
METAMAGIC
Prerequisites good alignment, healing font
You pour invigorating positive energy into a living ally. If the
next action you use is to cast heal to restore Hit Points to a
single living creature, the target deals an additional 1d6 positive
damage with its melee weapons and unarmed attacks until the
end of its next turn. If the heal spell is at least 5th level, this
damage increases to 2d6, or 3d6 if the spell is at least 8th level.
6TH LEVEL
MAGIC HANDS
FEAT 6
CLERIC
Prerequisites Healing Hands
The blessing of your deity heightens your healing ability,
making your mundane healing work as if by magic. When you
succeed at a Medicine check to Treat Wounds, your action
gains the divine trait and you heal the maximum amount for
the 2d8 (or 4d8 on a critical success). If you have an ability
that adds additional dice to your Treat Wounds, you still roll
those normally.
8TH LEVEL
MARTYR [one-action]
FEAT 8
CLERIC
METAMAGIC
Prerequisites divine font
You go to extreme lengths to support your allies, even when it
means bringing harm to yourself. If your next action is to cast
harm or heal from your healing or harmful font to restore Hit
Points to a single ally, you can channel your own vitality along
with the spell. You lose 1d8 Hit Points per level of the spell,
which can’t be reduced or mitigated in any way, and your ally
regains an equal number of Hit Points.
SURGING FOCUS [free-action]
FEAT 8
CLERIC
Frequency once per day
Trigger An ally you can see falls to 0 Hit Points.
When an ally you can see falls in battle, your fight or flight
response triggers a surge in your deity’s might within you. You
instantly regain 1 Focus Point.
10TH LEVEL
SHARED AVOIDANCE
FEAT 10
CLERIC
Prerequisites Premonition of Avoidance
You can project your premonitions of danger to your allies.
When you use Premonition of Avoidance, allies within 15
feet of you who are rolling the same saving throw against
the same hazard also gain a +2 circumstance bonus to their
saving throws.
SHIELD OF FAITH
FEAT 10
CLERIC
Prerequisites Domain Initiate
Residual energy from your domain spells bolsters your defenses.
When you spend a Focus Point to cast a domain spell, you gain
a +1 status bonus to your AC until the start of your next turn.
THROUGH SPELL [one-action]
FEAT 10
CLERIC
CONCENTRATE
METAMAGIC
Spells you cast can transform briefly into vital essence,
CLERIC
From infusing allies with powerful energies to performing minor miracles,
this section provides feats for clerics of any alignment, deity, or doctrine.
Advanced Player's Guide
122
122
