Craft Requirements Supply one casting of all listed levels of
all listed spells, plus one casting of shillelagh.
STAFF OF PROVIDENCE
ITEM 6+
DIVINATION
MAGICAL
STAFF
Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk 1
A large, stylized symbol of an eye adorns the top of this wooden
staff, representing the watchful eye of the divine powers. The
bearer of the staff can guide and protect, seeing bounties and
tragedies that could befall them in the future. When wielding
this staff, you gain a +1 item bonus on Survival checks to Sense
Direction or Subsist, and to Religion checks to Recall Knowledge.
Activate Cast a Spell; Effect You expend a number of charges
from the staff to cast a spell from its list.
Type staff of providence; Level 6; Price 230 gp
• Cantrip guidance, light
• 1st bless, create water
• 2nd augury, create food, see invisibility, status
Type greater staff of providence; Level 10; Price 900 gp
• 3rd safe passage (page 224), wanderer’s guide
• 4th remove curse, spell immunity, status
Type major staff of providence; Level 14; Price 4,100 gp
• 5th prying eye, see invisibility, spell immunity
• 6rd spell immunity, scintillating safeguard (page 224),
true seeing
Type true staff of providence; Level 20; Price 64,000 gp
• 7th energy aegis, spell immunity
• 8rd divine inspiration, spell immunity
• 9th foresight, overwhelming presence, spell immunity
Craft Requirements Supply one casting of all listed levels of
all listed spells.
URN OF ASHES
ITEM 9
MAGICAL
NECROMANCY
NEGATIVE
Price 700 gp
Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk —
This sealed pewter urn contains the
ashes of a benevolent ancestor, with a
sliver of lingering spirit that strives to
protect you.
Activate [reaction] envision; Trigger You would
become doomed or your doomed value
would
increase;
Requirements The
ashes aren’t doomed; Effect The ashes
in the urn intervene, taking the doomed
condition in your place, and you don’t gain
or increase the value of your own doomed
condition. Each night when you get a full
night’s rest, you can reduce your own
doomed condition or that of the urn, but
not both.
Activate [one-action] envision, Interact
(attack);
Frequency once per round; Effect The urn
shoots a bolt of negative energy at a foe
within 30 feet. Attempt a spell attack roll
against the target’s AC, using a modifier
of +15 or your own spell attack roll modifier, whichever is
higher. On a success, the bolt deals 4d4 negative damage
(doubled on a critical success).
VICTORY PLATE
ITEM 9+
UNCOMMON
ABJURATION
INVESTED
MAGICAL
Usage worn armor; Bulk 4
The metal plates of this +1 resilient full plate are covered by a
bright tabard featuring a distinctive coat of arms divided into
four fields. This insignia magically records your recent victories,
displaying one triumph in each field of the coat of arms, allowing
you to call upon those victories for aid in future battles.
Activate [free-action] envision; Trigger You kill or destroy a creature of
a level equal to or greater than your victory plate (adjusted
as usual if you add fundamental runes to victory plate). This
creature must have one of the traits listed in the second
activation; Effect You direct the armor to commemorate
your victory. The coat of arms on the armor’s tabard shifts
to incorporate heraldry related to the slain creature, and
the victory is recorded within the tabard. If you have
already recorded four victories, choose one to replace with
the new victory.
Activate [two-actions] envision, Interact; Frequency once per hour; Effect
You touch one of the tabard’s four fields representing
one of your victories and recall your triumph over that
creature. That creature vanishes from the tabard, and for
1 minute, you gain resistance 5 to a damage type based
on the creature’s trait (you gain resistance to only one
type, even if the creature has more than one trait that
could apply):
• Aberration or Fey mental
• Celestial good
• Construct poison
• Dragon or Elemental one energy type that
matches one of the dragon’s or elemental’s
traits
•
Fiend evil
• Ooze precision, and the resistance is 10
• Undead negative
Type victory plate; Level 9; Price 675 gp
Type greater victory plate; Level 15; Price
5,500 gp
The armor is a +2 greater resilient full plate. You
can use the second activation once per minute
instead of once per hour, and the resistance
it grants is 10, or 20 for the ooze’s resistance
against precision damage.
WALKING CAULDRON
ITEM 1
INVESTED
MAGICAL
TRANSMUTATION
Price 12 gp
Bulk 4
This iron cauldron stands upon sturdy iron crow’s
feet. A walking cauldron has a land Speed of 25
feet and can be used as a suitable tool to Craft
potions, oils, or other liquids.
As a single action, which has the auditory
Advanced Player's Guide
264
264
