PAIZO INC.
Creative Directors • James Jacobs and Robert G. McCreary
Director of Game Design • Jason Bulmahn
Director of Visual Design • Sarah E. Robinson
Managing Developers • Adam Daigle and Amanda Hamon
Organized Play Lead Developer • Linda Zayas-Palmer
Developers • James Case, Eleanor Ferron, Jason Keeley, Luis Loza, Ron Lundeen, Patrick Renie,
Michael Sayre, and Jason Tondro
Starfinder Lead Designer • Joe Pasini
Starfinder Senior Developer • John Compton
Starfinder Society Developer • Thurston Hillman
Design Manager • Mark Seifter
Pathfinder Lead Designer • Logan Bonner
Designer • Lyz Liddell
Managing Editor • Judy Bauer
Senior Editor • Leo Glass
Editors • Patrick Hurley, Avi Kool, Kieran Newton, and Lu Pellazar
Managing Art Director • Sonja Morris
Art Directors • Kent Hamilton and Adam Vick
Senior Graphic Designer • Emily Crowell
Graphic Designer • Tony Barnett
Director of Brand Strategy • Mark Moreland
Paizo CEO • Lisa Stevens
Chief Creative Officer • Erik Mona
Chief Financial Officer • John Parrish
Chief Operations Officer • Jeffrey Alvarez
Chief Technical Officer • Vic Wertz
Director of Project Management • Glenn Elliott
Project Coordinator • Michael Nzazi
Director of Sales • Pierce Watters
Sales Associate • Cosmo Eisele
Vice President of Marketing & Licensing • Jim Butler
Director of Licensing • John Feil
Public Relations Manager • Aaron Shanks
Social Media Producer • Payton Smith
Customer Service & Community Manager • Sara Marie
Operations Manager • Will Chase
Organized Play Manager • Tonya Woldridge
Organized Play Associate • Alex Speidel
Accountant • William Jorenby
Accounting & AP Specialist • Eric Powell
Finance Operations Specialist • B. Scott Keim
Human Resources Generalist • Devinne Caples
Director of Technology • Raimi Kong
Web Content Manager • Maryssa Lagervall
Senior Software Developer • Gary Teter
Webstore Coordinator • Katina Davis
Customer Service Team • Joan Hong, Virginia Jordan, Samantha Phelan, and Diego Valdez
Warehouse Team • Mika Hawkins, Heather Payne, Jeff Strand, and Kevin Underwood
Website Team • Brian Bauman, Robert Brandenburg, Whitney Chatterjee, Erik Keith,
Josh Thornton, and Andrew White
OPEN GAME LICENSE Version 1.0a
The following text is the property of Wizards of the Coast, Inc. and is Copyright 2000 Wizards of the Coast, Inc.
(“Wizards”). All Rights Reserved.
1. Definitions: (a) “Contributors” means the copyright and/or trademark owners who have contributed Open Game
Content; (b) “Derivative Material” means copyrighted material including derivative works and translations (including
into other computer languages), potation, modification, correction, addition, extension, upgrade, improvement,
compilation, abridgment or other form in which an existing work may be recast, transformed or adapted; (c)
“Distribute” means to reproduce, license, rent, lease, sell, broadcast, publicly display, transmit or otherwise distribute;
(d) “Open Game Content” means the game mechanic and includes the methods, procedures, processes and routines
to the extent such content does not embody the Product Identity and is an enhancement over the prior art and any
additional content clearly identified as Open Game Content by the Contributor, and means any work covered by this
License, including translations and derivative works under copyright law, but specifically excludes Product Identity.
(e) “Product Identity” means product and product line names, logos and identifying marks including trade dress;
artifacts, creatures, characters, stories, storylines, plots, thematic elements, dialogue, incidents, language, artwork,
symbols, designs, depictions, likenesses, formats, poses, concepts, themes and graphic, photographic and other visual
or audio representations; names and descriptions of characters, spells, enchantments, personalities, teams, personas,
likenesses and special abilities; places, locations, environments, creatures, equipment, magical or supernatural abilities
or effects, logos, symbols, or graphic designs; and any other trademark or registered trademark clearly identified as
Product identity by the owner of the Product Identity, and which specifically excludes the Open Game Content; (f)
“Trademark” means the logos, names, mark, sign, motto, designs that are used by a Contributor to identify itself or
its products or the associated products contributed to the Open Game License by the Contributor (g) “Use”, “Used”
or “Using” means to use, Distribute, copy, edit, format, modify, translate and otherwise create Derivative Material of
Open Game Content. (h) “You” or “Your” means the licensee in terms of this agreement.
2. The License: This License applies to any Open Game Content that contains a notice indicating that the Open
Game Content may only be Used under and in terms of this License. You must affix such a notice to any Open Game
Content that you Use. No terms may be added to or subtracted from this License except as described by the License
itself. No other terms or conditions may be applied to any Open Game Content distributed using this License.
3. Offer and Acceptance: By Using the Open Game Content You indicate Your acceptance of the terms of this License.
4. Grant and Consideration: In consideration for agreeing to use this License, the Contributors grant You a perpetual,
worldwide, royalty-free, non-exclusive license with the exact terms of this License to Use, the Open Game Content.
5. Representation of Authority to Contribute: If You are contributing original material as Open Game Content,
You represent that Your Contributions are Your original creation and/or You have sufficient rights to grant the rights
conveyed by this License.
6. Notice of License Copyright: You must update the COPYRIGHT NOTICE portion of this License to include the
exact text of the COPYRIGHT NOTICE of any Open Game Content You are copying, modifying or distributing, and You
must add the title, the copyright date, and the copyright holder’s name to the COPYRIGHT NOTICE of any original
Open Game Content you Distribute.
7. Use of Product Identity: You agree not to Use any Product Identity, including as an indication as to
compatibility, except as expressly licensed in another, independent Agreement with the owner of each element of
that Product Identity. You agree not to indicate compatibility or co-adaptability with any Trademark or Registered
Trademark in conjunction with a work containing Open Game Content except as expressly licensed in another,
independent Agreement with the owner of such Trademark or Registered Trademark. The use of any Product Identity
in Open Game Content does not constitute a challenge to the ownership of that Product Identity. The owner of any
Product Identity used in Open Game Content shall retain all rights, title and interest in and to that Product Identity.
8. Identification: If you distribute Open Game Content You must clearly indicate which portions of the work that
you are distributing are Open Game Content.
9. Updating the License: Wizards or its designated Agents may publish updated versions of this License. You
may use any authorized version of this License to copy, modify and distribute any Open Game Content originally
distributed under any version of this License.
10. Copy of this License: You MUST include a copy of this License with every copy of the Open Game Content
You distribute.
11. Use of Contributor Credits: You may not market or advertise the Open Game Content using the name of any
Contributor unless You have written permission from the Contributor to do so.
12. Inability to Comply: If it is impossible for You to comply with any of the terms of this License with respect to
some or all of the Open Game Content due to statute, judicial order, or governmental regulation then You may not Use
any Open Game Material so affected.
13. Termination: This License will terminate automatically if You fail to comply with all terms herein and fail to
cure such breach within 30 days of becoming aware of the breach. All sublicenses shall survive the termination of
this License.
14. Reformation: If any provision of this License is held to be unenforceable, such provision shall be reformed only
to the extent necessary to make it enforceable.
15. COPYRIGHT NOTICE
Open Game License v 1.0a © 2000, Wizards of the Coast, Inc.
System Reference Document © 2000, Wizards of the Coast, Inc; Authors: Jonathan Tweet, Monte Cook, Skip
Williams, based on material by E. Gary Gygax and Dave Arneson.
Pathfinder Core Rulebook (Second Edition) © 2019, Paizo Inc.; Authors: Logan Bonner, Jason Bulmahn, Stephen
Radney-MacFarland, and Mark Seifter.
Genie, Marid from the Tome of Horrors Complete © 2011, Necromancer Games, Inc., published and distributed by
Frog God Games; Author: Scott Greene, based on original material by Gary Gygax.
Pathfinder Advanced Player’s Guide © 2020, Paizo Inc.; Authors: Amirali Attar Olyaee, Alexander Augunas, Kate
Baker, Brian Bauman, Logan Bonner, Carlos Cabrera, James Case, Jessica Catalan, John Compton, Paris Crenshaw, Jesse
Decker, Fabby Garza Marroquín, Steven Hammond, Sasha Laranoa Harving, Joan Hong, Nicolas Hornyak, Vanessa
Hoskins, James Jacobs, Erik Keith, Lyz Liddell, Luis Loza, Ron Lundeen, Patchen Mortimer, Dennis Muldoon, Stephen
Radney-MacFarland, Jessica Redekop, Mikhail Rekun, Alex Riggs, David N. Ross, Michael Sayre, Mark Seifter, Kendra
Leigh Speedling, Jason Tondro, Clark Valentine, and Andrew White.
choices give access to uncommon options, and the GM can choose to
allow access for anyone. CR 13
undead (trait) Once living, these creatures were infused after death with
negative energy and soul-corrupting evil magic. When reduced to 0
Hit Points, an undead creature is destroyed. Undead creatures are
damaged by positive energy and are healed by negative energy, and
don’t benefit from healing effects.
unique (trait) A rules element with this trait is one-of-a-kind. CR 13
until the next time you make your daily preparations A spell with this
duration lasts until you next prepare, and you can extend it by leaving
its spell slot open. CR 305
versatile (weapon trait) A versatile weapon can be used to deal a different
type of damage than that listed in the Damage entry. This trait
indicates the alternate damage type. For instance, a piercing weapon
that is versatile S can be used to deal piercing or slashing damage. You
choose the damage type each time you make an attack.
versatile heritage Versatile heritages can be selected by characters of
nearly any ancestry in place of a heritage specific to a single ancestry.
28–29
vigilante (trait) Using actions and abilities with the vigilante trait while
in your social identity risks exposing you as a vigilante. 196–197
visual (trait) A visual effect can affect only creatures that can see it.
This applies only to visible parts of the effect, as determined by
the GM.
wand (trait) A wand contains a single spell which you can cast once per
day. 265, CR 597–598
water (trait) Effects with the water trait either manipulate or conjure
water. Those that manipulate water have no effect in an area without
water. Creatures with this trait consist primarily of water or have a
magical connection to the element.
weakness Increases damage you take of a certain type. CR 453
weapon 248, CR 278–286

magical weapons 261–265, CR 599–602

runes 260, CR 580–585
witch (class) 94–105

hex spells 237–239

multiclass archetype 154
witch (trait) This trait indicates abilities from the witch class.
wizard (class) 142–143, CR 202–213

arcane spell list 212, CR 307–309
wizard (trait) This indicates abilities from the wizard class.
worn item (magic item) 260–264, CR 603–617
This product is compliant with the Open Game License (OGL) and is suitable for use with the Pathfinder Roleplaying
Game (Second Edition).
Product Identity: The following items are hereby identified as Product Identity, as defined in the Open Game License
version 1.0a, Section 1(e), and are not Open Game Content: All trademarks, registered trademarks, proper nouns
(characters, deities, locations, etc., as well as all adjectives, names, titles, and descriptive terms derived from proper
nouns), artworks, characters, dialogue, locations, organizations, plots, storylines, and trade dress. (Elements that have
previously been designated as Open Game Content, or are exclusively derived from previous Open Game Content, or
that are in the public domain are not included in this declaration.)
Open Game Content: Except for material designated as Product Identity, the game mechanics of this Paizo game
product are Open Game Content, as defined in the Open Game License version 1.0a, Section 1(d). No portion of this work
other than the material designated as Open Game Content may be reproduced in any form without written permission.
Pathfinder Advanced Player’s Guide © 2020, Paizo Inc. Paizo, the Paizo golem logo, Pathfinder, the Pathfinder logo,
Pathfinder Society, Starfinder, and the Starfinder logo are registered trademarks of Paizo Inc.; the Pathfinder P logo,
Pathfinder Accessories, Pathfinder Adventure Card Game, Pathfinder Adventure Card Society, Pathfinder Adventure
Path, Pathfinder Adventures, Pathfinder Battles, Pathfinder Cards, Pathfinder Combat Pad, Pathfinder Flip-Mat,
Pathfinder Flip-Tiles, Pathfinder Legends, Pathfinder Lost Omens, Pathfinder Pawns, Pathfinder Roleplaying Game,
Pathfinder Tales, Starfinder Adventure Path, Starfinder Combat Pad, Starfinder Flip-Mat, Starfinder Pawns, Starfinder
Roleplaying Game, and Starfinder Society are trademarks of Paizo Inc.
Printed in China.
Glossary & Index
271
271
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Archetypes
Feats
Spells
items
glossary
& Index
