that ends its turn adjacent to you must attempt a Will save; this
is a mental, visual effect.
Success The creature is unaffected.
Failure The creature is dazzled until the end of its next turn.
Critical Failure The creature is confused and dazzled until the
end of its next turn.
BLINDING FURY
SPELL 6
CURSE
EMOTION
ENCHANTMENT
INCAPACITATION
MENTAL
Traditions divine, occult, primal
Cast [reaction] verbal; Trigger A creature damages you.
Range 60 feet; Targets the triggering creature
Saving Throw Will; Duration varies
You curse the target with your outrage at being attacked. The
effect is determined by the target’s Will save.
Critical Success The target is unaffected.
Success The target can’t observe you until the end of its turn,
and if you’re currently observed by it, you become hidden to it.
Failure As success, and for 1 minute, every time the target
damages you, it can’t observe you until the end of its turn.
Critical Failure As success, and for an unlimited duration, the
first time each round the target damages a creature, it can’t
observe that creature until the end of its turn. If it damages
several creatures at once, the creature it can’t perceive is
chosen randomly among those creatures.
BLISTER
SPELL 5
NECROMANCY
Traditions arcane, occult, primal
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal
Range 60 feet; Targets 1 creature
Saving Throw Fortitude; Duration 1 minute
You point at a target in range, and its skin grows searing
blisters filled with caustic fluid. The target must attempt a
Fortitude save.
Critical Success The target is unaffected.
Success The target grows one blister. You can spend a single
action, which has the concentrate trait, to pop a blister. The
target and each creature in a 15-foot cone originating from
the target takes 7d6 acid damage (basic Fortitude save).
You choose the direction of the cone, which can’t include
the target. When no blisters are left, the spell ends.
Failure As success, but the target grows two blisters.
Critical Failure As success, but the target grows four blisters.
Heightened (+1) The damage of a popped blister increases by 1d6.
BLISTERING INVECTIVE
SPELL 2
AUDITORY
EMOTION
ENCHANTMENT
FEAR
MENTAL
Traditions occult
Cast [two-actions] verbal, somatic
Range 30 feet; Targets 1 creature
Saving Throw Will
A heap of insults and invectives spew from your mouth—
words so devastating your foes burn from the intensity of
your diatribe. Your words deal 2d6 persistent fire damage,
and the target must attempt a Will save. If the target doesn’t
understand the language or you’re not speaking a language, it
gains a +4 circumstance bonus to its save.
Critical Success The target is unaffected.
Success The target takes half the persistent fire damage.
Failure The target becomes frightened 1 and takes the full
persistent fire damage.
Critical Failure The target becomes frightened 2 and takes
double the persistent fire damage.
Heightened (+2) You can target two additional creatures, and
the persistent damage increases by 2d6.
BLOOD VENDETTA
SPELL 2
CURSE
NECROMANCY
Traditions arcane, divine, occult
Cast [reaction] verbal; Trigger A creature deals piercing, slashing, or
persistent bleed damage to you; Requirements You can bleed.
Range 30 feet; Targets the triggering creature
Saving Throw Will; Duration varies
You curse the target, punishing it for having the audacity to
spill your blood. The target takes 2d6 persistent bleed damage
and must attempt a Will save.
Critical Success The target is unaffected.
Success The target takes half the persistent bleed damage.
Failure The target takes the full persistent bleed damage. Until
the bleeding stops, the target has weakness 1 to piercing
and slashing damage.
Critical Failure As failure, but the target takes double the
persistent bleed damage.
Heightened (+2) The persistent bleed damage increases by 2d6.
CHAMELEON COAT
SPELL 5
ILLUSION
Traditions primal
Cast [three-actions] material, somatic, verbal
Range 15 feet; Targets up to 8 creatures
Duration 10 minutes
You shift the colors of the targets’ outermost layer of clothing
and gear to be closer to their environment when they remain
still. Creatures affected by the spell gain a +3 status bonus to
Stealth checks to Hide. The changed color granted by the spell
always shifts to match the environment, even if there are drastic
changes. If any piece of gear or clothing affected by the spell is
removed from a creature, the spell ends for that creature.
Heightened (6th) If a creature affected by this spell rolls a
critical failure on its Stealth check to Sneak within 30 feet
of a creature that would spot it, it instead only fails its
check, as the spell mildly hypnotizes the spotter.
Heightened (8th) As 6th level, and the status bonus is +4.
CHARITABLE URGE
SPELL 2
ENCHANTMENT
INCAPACITATION
MENTAL
Traditions arcane, divine, occult
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal
Range 30 feet; Targets 1 creature
Saving Throw Will; Duration varies
You speak on the virtue of charity, compelling the target to
Advanced Player's Guide
216
216
