TABLE 2–6: WITCH ADVANCEMENT
Your
Level Class Features
1
Ancestry and background, initial proficiencies,


patron, familiar, witch spellcasting, hexes
2
Skill feat, witch feat
3
2nd-level spells, general feat, skill increase
4
Skill feat, witch feat
5
3rd-level spells, ability boosts, ancestry feat,


magical fortitude, skill increase
6
Familiar ability, skill feat, witch feat
7
4th-level spells, expert spellcaster, general feat, skill

increase
8
Skill feat, witch feat
9
5th-level spells, ancestry feat, lightning reflexes,


skill increase
10
Ability boosts, skill feat, witch feat
11
6th-level spells, alertness, general feat, skill


increase, weapon expertise
12
Familiar ability, skill feat, witch feat
13
7th-level spells, ancestry feat, defensive robes, skill

increase, weapon specialization
14
Skill feat, witch feat
15
8th-level spells, ability boosts, general feat, master

spellcaster, skill increase
16
Skill feat, witch feat
17
9th-level spells, ancestry feat, resolve, skill increase
18
Familiar ability, skill feat, witch feat
19
General feat, legendary spellcaster, patron’s gift,


skill increase
20
Ability boosts, skill feat, witch feat
Class Features
You gain these abilities as a witch. Abilities gained at
higher levels list the requisite levels next to their names.
ANCESTRY AND BACKGROUND
In addition to the class features you gain at 1st level, you
have the benefits of your selected ancestry and background.
INITIAL PROFICIENCIES
At 1st level, you gain a number of proficiencies that
represent your basic training, noted at the start of this class.
PATRON
You weren’t born with the power to cast spells, nor have
you spent years in devotion to tomes, deities, or mystical
secrets. Your power comes through a potent being that has
chosen you as their vessel to carry forth some agenda in
the world. This entity is typically mysterious and distant,
revealing little of their identity and motivations, and they
grant you spells and other magical powers through a
familiar, which serves as a conduit for their power.
A patron might be a deity or demigod, a coven of
powerful hags, a fey lord, an archdevil, or a similarly
powerful entity, or perhaps multiple such figures working
in tandem. As you gain more of your patron’s power, you
might learn more about who or what they are—certain
combinations of themes and lessons suggest particular
patrons or agendas—but patrons empower witches for
their own secretive reasons, which they rarely reveal in full.
At 1st level, choose your patron’s theme, which determines
your spellcasting tradition, a skill, a special cantrip you
gain, and a spell added to your familiar. The patron themes
presented in this book are found on page 99.
FAMILIAR
Your patron has sent you a familiar, a mystical creature
that teaches you and facilitates your spells. This familiar
follows the rules beginning on page 217 of the Core
Rulebook, though as it’s a direct conduit between you and
your patron, it’s more powerful than other familiars. Your
familiar gains an extra familiar ability, and gains another
extra ability at 6th, 12th, and 18th levels.
Your familiar is the source and repository of the spells
your patron has bestowed upon you, and you must
commune with your familiar to prepare your spells
each day using your witch spellcasting (see below).
Your familiar starts off knowing 10 cantrips, five 1st-
level spells, and one additional spell determined by your
patron’s theme. You choose these spells from the common
spells of the tradition determined by your patron or from
other spells of that tradition you gain access to.
Each time you gain a level, your patron teaches your
familiar two new spells of any level you can cast, chosen
from common spells of your tradition or others you gain
access to. Feats can also grant your familiar additional spells.
Your familiar can learn new spells independently of your
patron. It can learn any spell on your tradition’s spell list
by physically consuming a scroll of that spell in a process
that takes 1 hour. You can use the Learn a Spell exploration
activity to prepare a special written version of a spell,
which your familiar can consume as if it were a scroll. You
and your familiar can use the Learn a Spell activity to teach
your familiar a spell from another witch’s familiar. Both
familiars must be present for the entirety of the activity, the
spell must be on your spellcasting tradition’s spell list, and
you must pay the usual cost for that activity, typically in
the form of an offering to the other familiar’s patron. You
can’t prepare spells from another witch’s familiar.
If your familiar dies, your patron replaces it during
your next daily preparations. The new familiar might be
a duplicate or reincarnation of your former familiar or a
new entity altogether, but it knows the same spells your
former familiar knew regardless. Your familiar’s death
doesn’t affect any spells you have already prepared.
WITCH SPELLCASTING
Using your familiar as a conduit, your patron provides
you the power to cast spells. You can cast spells using
the Cast a Spell activity, and you can supply material,
somatic, and verbal components when casting spells.
Advanced Player's Guide
96
96
