Kobolds are resourceful survivors whose snare-guarded
warrens and opportunistic scavenging have cast them
as villains to most other humanoids, with their draconic
reverence lending them a reputation as mere minions and
nuisances. Yet some kobolds have emerged from their
secluded warrens seeking the relative safety of surface
settlements, the lucrative prospects of the adventuring
life, or validating awe from followers of their own.
If you want a character with oversized confidence,
deadly cunning, and the ancient power of dragons flowing
through their veins, you should play a kobold.
YOU MIGHT...
• Take pride in your draconic connections, whether you
believe dragons are your ancestors or simply patrons.
• Analyze your surroundings, always looking for
ambushes, advantageous terrain, and escape routes.
KOBOLD
Every kobold knows that their slight frame belies true, mighty draconic power. They are
ingenious crafters and devoted allies within their warrens, but those who trespass into their
territory find them to be inspired skirmishers, especially when they have the backing of
a draconic sorcerer or true dragon overlord. However, these reptilian opportunists prove
happy to cooperate with other humanoids when it’s to their benefit, combining caution
and cunning to make their fortunes in the wider world.
• Naturally observe, adopt, and respect group dynamics,
whether as leader, subordinate, or equal.
OTHERS PROBABLY...
• Assume that you are cowardly and won’t stick around
in the face of danger.
• Appreciate your ingenuity and resourcefulness,
especially when it comes to building defenses.
• Consider your claims of draconic power to be
overblown, delusional, or endearing.
PHYSICAL DESCRIPTION
Kobolds are short (about 3 feet tall) reptilian humanoids
with slender bodies and long tails. They often boast distant
draconic ancestry, and every kobold displays one or more
draconic features, such as stout horns, razor-sharp teeth,
or—more rarely—vestigial wings or draconic breath. They
mature quickly, reaching adulthood by about 12 years and
living to about 60.
The color of a kobold’s scales can vary widely. Most
often, they mimic the hues of chromatic or metallic
dragons, with a mix of slightly darker or lighter scales that
create a mottled appearance. The scales of newly hatched
kobolds often reflect the community’s draconic exemplar
(page 13), whether that’s the dragon they currently serve
or the dragon type from which they’re descended.
SOCIETY
Kobolds have an ingrained cautiousness that keeps
them alive. They’re secretive or subservient around
powerful creatures to avoid becoming victims.
This meekness fades once kobolds secure either a
formidable patron (like a dragon) or a potent source
of supernatural power (like an artifact or
sorcerous leader). They often achieve
an unshakable fervor and loyalty to
their new cause or leader. However,
kobolds are infamous for sensing a
proverbial sinking ship, and once
their source of power fails
or seems doomed, their
morale breaks swiftly.
Whether led by a
dragon or not, kobolds
almost
always
identify
themselves with a type of
Advanced Player's Guide
1212
