This golden candle bears the symbol of a specific deity
emblazoned on its surface, surrounded by the iconography of
that deity’s faith. Once lit, this candle burns for 1 hour, and it
can’t be extinguished.
Characters who cast divine spells and worship the
deity emblazoned on the candle can perform their daily
preparations within 10 feet of the lit candle to gain two
additional spell slots for the day, each at half the highest
spell level the character can cast (for example, 4th level
slots if the caster can cast 8th-level spells). Prepared casters
must prepare spells in these spell slots as they do for all
their other spell slots.
A caster’s additional spell slots from the candle are lost the
next time that caster performs their daily preparations.
No one can benefit from more than one candle of
invocation in a day, but multiple characters can
benefit from a single candle’s effects.
CANDLE OF REVEALING
ITEM 7
CONSUMABLE
DIVINATION
MAGICAL
Price 60 gp
Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk —
Activate [one-action] Interact
When lit, this black candle’s eerie blue flame reveals
the presence of invisible creatures. Within a 10-foot
radius of the lit candle, creatures don’t benefit from the
invisible condition. Their bodies are outlined, not fully
visible, so they are concealed. Once lit, the candle burns
for 1 minute, after which the effect ends. If extinguished,
it can’t be relit.
CORROSIVE AMMUNITION
ITEM 7
CONSUMABLE
EVOCATION
MAGICAL
Price 70 gp
Ammunition any
Activate [one-action] Interact
This peculiar ammunition is coated in yellow dust that leaves
a stain on anything it touches. When activated corrosive
ammunition hits a target, it dissolves across the target’s
armor. The armor takes 1d8 persistent acid damage that
ignores the armor’s Hardness; if the target isn’t wearing
armor, it takes the acid damage instead. This damage occurs
at the end of the target’s turns.
The creature can end this effect by
spending an Interact action to wipe off
the corrosive dust, and otherwise the effect
ends once the armor becomes broken.
DUST OF CORPSE ANIMATION ITEM 8+
UNCOMMON
CONSUMABLE
MAGICAL
NECROMANCY
Usage held in 2 hands; Bulk —
Activate [two-actions] Interact
This black pouch contains what
appears to be fine bone dust.
Pouring the dust in a special
pattern over a corpse turns it
into an undead creature. The type of undead created depends
on the condition of the corpse, resulting in either a skeleton or
a zombie (Bestiary 298 and 340, respectively). If the undead’s
level would be greater than 3, the dust fails to animate it. The
body must be of an appropriate size and type for the undead
you wish to create—for example, you must sprinkle the dust
on a horse’s skeleton to animate a skeletal horse. If more than
one undead in the level range is appropriate, such as skeletal
guard or skeletal champion for a Medium humanoid skeleton,
you choose.
The animated undead has the minion trait, meaning it
can use 2 actions when you Command it. You can issue a
Command for the current turn as part of the activation.
The undead creature remains animated for 1 minute before
collapsing back into its corpse form. As usual, you can
have a maximum of four minions under your control.
Type dust of corpse animation; Level 8; Price 100 gp
Type greater dust of corpse animation; Level 16; Price
1,500 gp
You can animate an undead with a level of 11 or lower.
FREEZING AMMUNITION
ITEM 5
COLD
CONSUMABLE
EVOCATION
MAGICAL
Price 25 gp
Ammunition any
Activate [one-action] Interact
This chilly ammunition is dark blue and cold to the touch.
When activated freezing ammunition hits a target, the
target must succeed at a DC 19 Fortitude save or be
slowed 1 for 1 round by the intense cold (slowed 1 for 1
minute on a critical failure).
GECKO POTION
ITEM 1
CONSUMABLE
MAGICAL
POTION
TRANSMUTATION
Price 3 gp
Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk L
Activate [one-action] Interact
A gecko potion is a sticky, tawny brown liquid with flecks
of sand suspended in it. For 5 minutes after drinking this
potion, your fingertips sprout thousands of microscopic,
bristled hairs that cling to objects, granting you a +1 item
bonus to Climb and Palm an Object, and to your Reflex DC
against Disarm attempts.
INCENSE OF DISTILLED DEATH
ITEM 12
CONSUMABLE
MAGICAL
NECROMANCY
NEGATIVE
Price 350 gp
Usage held in 1 hands; Bulk —
Activate [one-action] Interact
This black incense smells of fresh earth and
ash. You activate the incense by lighting it,
whereupon it fills a 10-foot emanation with oily
smoke and potent negative energy. Undead
creatures, including incorporeal undead, gain
fast healing 4 while in the area; though this
healing comes from negative energy, it doesn’t
Items
6
257
257
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Archetypes
Feats
Spells
items
glossary
& Index
