CATFOLK
Curious and gregarious wanderers, catfolk combine features of felines and humanoids in
both appearance and temperament. They enjoy learning new things, collecting new tales
and trinkets, and ensuring their loved ones are safe and happy. Catfolk view themselves as
chosen guardians of natural places in the world and are often recklessly brave, even in the
face of overwhelming opposition.
Catfolk are outgoing, active humanoids who delight in
discovery, whether of hidden ruins or a comfortable place
to nap. They are exceptionally social, both within their
tight-knit communities and with other creatures they meet.
Remarkably brave, catfolk see themselves as guardians
of the world against forces that would assail it, and they
believe that strong communities, breadth of experience, and
continual self-improvement aid them in this fight.
Catfolk have fast reflexes and are even able to twist
themselves in the air while falling to land on their feet. As
quick as these reflexes are, catfolk have quicker tempers,
shifting from effusive glee to aggrieved fury in an instant.
Like mundane felines, catfolk involuntarily purr when
pleased and growl when surprised or angry.
If you want a character who is curious, brave, friendly,
and nimble in body and mind, you should play a catfolk.
YOU MIGHT...
• Demonstrate genuine interest by asking a lot of
enthusiastic questions.
• Avoid interpersonal conflict by giving someone a
cold shoulder or by simply leaving the area.
• Carefully scout a target or problem before
striking at it quickly.
OTHERS PROBABLY...
• Think you monopolize conversations
with
your
incessant
queries
or
opinions.
•  Consider you haughty or prideful.
•  Ascribe more emotion than you
feel to your involuntary purrs or
growling.
PHYSICAL DESCRIPTION
Although all catfolk walk upright and
have soft fur, a long tail, large ears, and
vertical pupils, they show at least as much
variety as ordinary felines. Catfolk have
nimble fingers with short claws that are usually
retractable. Most catfolk take great pride in maintaining
their appearance and rarely suffer the indignity of being
wet or dirty if they can avoid it.
Catfolk mature quickly and are able to walk at only
a few months old, but they otherwise start their careers
at roughly the same age as humans do and live to be
60 or 70 years of age. Catfolk are rarely taller than the
Advanced Player's Guide
8
