TENGU
Tengus are a gregarious and resourceful people that have spread far and wide from their
ancestral home in Tian Xia, collecting and combining whatever innovations and traditions
they happen across with those from their own long history.
Tengus are survivalists and conversationalists, equally at
home living off the wilderness and finding a niche in dense
cities. They accumulate knowledge, tools, and companions,
adding them to their collection as they travel.
The tengu diaspora has spread across Golarion in search
of a better life, bringing their skill with blade crafting to
lands far from their home. In maritime regions, tengus
notably work as fishers, blacksmiths, and “jinx eaters”—
members of ships’ crews who are believed, accurately
or otherwise, to absorb misfortune. Having lived in a
variety of conditions and locations, tengus tend to be
nonjudgmental, especially with regard to social station,
though their willingness to associate with lawbreakers has
often led some to look at them with suspicion.
If you want to play a character hailing from a rich
history of artisanship and tradition, but who happily
picks up new practices, companions, words, and items as
needed, you should play a tengu.
YOU MIGHT...
• Be gregarious and eager to find a flock of your own.
• Voraciously absorb the practices of those around you,
sometimes even forgetting where they came from.
• Be willing to take on any task or job, no matter
what others think.
OTHERS PROBABLY...
• Look to you as a source of eclectic skills and
knowledge, especially relating to languages.
•  Get confused by your simultaneous respect for and
disregard of tradition.
•  Have trouble reading your expressions or regard
you with suspicion and superstition.
PHYSICAL DESCRIPTION
Tengus have many avian characteristics. Their faces
are tipped with sharp beaks and their scaled forearms
and lower legs end in talons. As closed footwear
tends to fit poorly unless custom made, many
tengus wear open sandals or simply go barefoot.
Tengus are rarely more than 5 feet tall, and they
are even lighter than their smaller frames would
suggest, as they have hollow bones. A small number
of tengus have vestigial wings incapable of true flight.
Tengus hatch from eggs and are featherless for their first
year of life, during which they rarely leave home. They
soon grow a downy gray coat, which is replaced by a dark
covering of adult feathers by the time they come of age at
around 15 years. Tengus use their shed feathers in a variety
of tools, from simple writing quills to magical fans to focus
their ancestral magic. Many tengus modify their appearance
by dyeing patterns into their feathers or talons, which
amplifies their body language and has the added benefit of
aiding other humanoids in understanding their expressions.
SOCIETY
Tengus are extremely social, banding together in extended
communities with many families living in adjacent houses
Advanced Player's Guide
24
24
