RARITY
Uncommon
HIT POINTS
6
SIZE
Small
SPEED
25 feet
ABILITY BOOSTS
Dexterity
Intelligence
Free
ABILITY FLAW
Strength
LANGUAGES
Common
Ysoki
Additional languages equal to your
Intelligence modifier (if it’s positive).
Choose from Aklo, Draconic, Dwarven,
Gnoll, Gnomish, Goblin, Halfling,
Orcish, Undercommon, or any other
languages to which you have access
(such as the languages prevalent in
your region).
TRAITS
Humanoid
Ratfolk
LOW-LIGHT VISION
You can see in dim light as though it
were bright light, and you ignore the
concealed condition due to dim light.
at differentiating between bad actors and those who are simply acting out of
ignorance, modeling good behavior and slowly working to reverse generations
of discrimination for those willing to learn. They are always on the lookout
for members of other ancestries who don’t judge them for their appearance,
embracing these individuals as true friends and welcoming them into their
communities. But they also can quickly spot determined bigots prone to violence
and steer clear of such individuals, minimizing any opportunity for tragedy.
ALIGNMENT AND RELIGION
Ysoki care more about their family than abstract concepts of good and evil.
Their warrens might be chaotic dens filled with hoarded knickknacks, but they
also obey strict social codes. Most ysoki are neutral.
Though ysoki revere their ancestors and tend to acknowledge whatever
deity is prevalent in their local area, Lao Shu Po has a special role in ysoki
culture. Grandmother Rat, as she is sometimes known, embodies many things
that are otherwise antithetical to ratfolk—she urges followers to put their own
interests above others, and she encourages deceit and trickery. To most ysoki,
Grandmother Rat accomplishes all those things ratfolk need done, but which no
reasonable ratfolk would wish to do. For more information about Lao Shu Po,
see page 132 of Lost Omens Gods and Magic.
NAMES
Every ysoki family has perhaps two dozen names that have been passed down
from generation to generation, sometimes with minor alterations or alternative
nicknames. A grandfather might be Grivver, for example, while his daughter
goes by Griva and her son is simply Griv. Ratfolk are often assigned nicknames
and sobriquets by humanoids they interact with, but most ysoki find these
names distasteful and endure them only when outside ysoki communities.
Sample NameS
Barnan, Chikis, Chonan, Deto, Jass, Jix, Knagi, Kubi, Lolo, Ninnec, Nos, Rak,
Renzi, Skigim, Tali, Zess
Ratfolk Heritages
Ysoki are native to underground regions, but they are a highly adaptable
ancestry that has been found in almost every environment. Choose one of the
following ratfolk heritages at 1st level.
DEEP RAT
Your ancestors lived deeper underground than other ratfolk, granting you the
ability to see in the dark. You gain darkvision.
DESERT RAT
You are native to arid plains and likely grew up traveling the roads. You have
a leaner build than other ratfolk, with longer limbs and short fur. If you have
both hands free, you can increase your Speed to 30 feet as you run on all fours.
In addition, environmental heat effects are one step less extreme for you, and
you can go 10 times as long as normal before you are affected by starvation or
thirst. However, unless you wear protective gear or take shelter, environmental
cold effects are one step more extreme for you.
LONGSNOUT RAT
The long snouts that run in your family give you a keener sense of smell than
most ratfolk. You gain imprecise scent with a range of 30 feet. This means you
can use your sense of smell to determine a creature’s location, as explained
on page 465 of the Core Rulebook. The GM will usually double the range if
Ancestries & Backgrounds
1
2121
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Archetypes
Feats
Spells
items
glossary
& index
