Step twice and then Strike. The Strike must be made with the
sword required by Peafowl Stance.
PREVAILING POSITION [reaction]
LEVEL 10
MONK
Prerequisites at least one stance feat
Trigger You are targeted by an attack or attempt a Reflex
saving throw against a damaging effect, and you are in a
stance.
Your willingness to flow from one stance to another lets you
sacrifice their benefits to better protect yourself. You leave
the stance you were in, gaining a +4 circumstance bonus
to the triggering saving throw or to your AC against the
triggering attack.
12TH LEVEL
DODGING ROLL [reaction]
LEVEL 12
MONK
Prerequisites master in Acrobatics
Trigger You take damage from an area effect that allows a
Reflex save.
You dodge a blow at the last possible moment. You Step and
gain resistance to all damage equal to your level against the
triggering effect. If your Step moves you out of the triggering
effect’s area, this resistance is instead equal to your level
plus your Dexterity modifier.
FOCUSED SHOT [one-action]
FEAT 12
CONCENTRATE
MONK
Prerequisites Monastic Archer Stance
Requirements You are in Monastic Archer Stance.
You achieve a state of perfect calm before unleashing your
attack, opening your mind to the minute movements of the
world around you to increase your accuracy. Make a ranged
weapon Strike against a target within your weapon’s first
range increment. This Strike ignores the target’s concealed
condition and all cover.
OVERWHELMING BREATH [one-action]
LEVEL 12
CONCENTRATE
METAMAGIC
MONK
Prerequisites ki spells
You control your breathing and align it with your ki,
exhaling with controlled force in order to overcome your
opponent’s resistance. If you use your next action to Cast
a Spell that has the monk trait and no duration, the spell
and any Strikes you make as a result of casting it ignore an
amount of the target’s resistance to physical damage equal
to your level.
14TH LEVEL
FORM LOCK [one-action]
FEAT 14
ATTACK
MONK
Requirements You have a foe grabbed or restrained.
Your ability to control your own ki empowers you to pressure
other creatures into resuming their true forms. Attempt an
Athletics check to counteract a polymorph effect currently
affecting your target. If the target is somehow under the effect
of multiple polymorph effects, you can choose which one to
attempt to counteract, or the GM chooses randomly if the
separate effects aren’t obvious. The target is then temporarily
immune for 1 day.
SHADOW’S WEB
FEAT 14
MONK
Prerequisites ki spells
Requirements You are in Clinging Shadows Initiate.
You launch a wave of shadowy ki outward from your body,
damaging your opponents and potentially binding them
in place. You gain the shadow’s web ki spell (page 229).
Increase the number of Focus Points in your focus pool by 1.
WHIRLING BLADE STANCE [one-action]
FEAT 14
MONK
STANCE
Prerequisites Monastic Weaponry
You enter a mindful stance that creates a deep connection
between you and your monk weapons, allowing you to
manipulate them with your ki even at a distance. All melee
monk weapons you wield with the finesse trait gain the
thrown 10 feet trait (unless they already have the thrown trait
with a greater range).
Once you’ve made a thrown Strike with such a weapon,
you can use the precision of your throw to make additional
strikes with it, even from a distance. Start from the space of
the previous Strike’s target to determine the range increment
and whether the new target has cover. At the end of your turn,
the thrown weapon flies directly back to you in a straight line.
If a solid barrier blocks its path, it falls to the ground after
hitting the barrier.
16TH LEVEL
FLINGING BLOW [two-actions]
FEAT 16
MONK
You take a moment to center yourself, then unleash a
powerful blow that sends your target tumbling away. Make
an unarmed Strike. If you hit, the target must succeed at a
Fortitude save against your class DC or be pushed up to 10
feet directly away from you (or 20 feet, on a critical failure)
and fall prone. If another creature or physical object would
prevent this movement, both your target and the blocking
creature or object take 1d6 bludgeoning damage per 5 feet
of movement that was prevented.
MEDUSA’S WRATH
FEAT 16
MONK
Prerequisites ki spells
You learn a monstrous ki technique that infuses your blows
with the petrifying power of a medusa’s gaze. You gain the
medusa’s wrath ki spell (page 229). Increase the number of
Focus Points in your focus pool by 1.
Advanced Player's Guide
130
130
