Golarion is home to a variety of versatile heritages. Some
are born to unusual creatures or arise through specific
mundane or supernatural circumstances. Many, however,
result from an infusion of extraplanar energy, whether
through direct parentage, more distant ancestors, or
simply direct exposure to the quintessence of that plane.
These individuals are known as planar scions.
Because the circumstances that give rise to versatile
heritages aren’t limited to a single ancestry, a versatile
heritage can be chosen by a character of nearly any
ancestry. Some versatile heritages are more common
among some ancestries than others, and some might list
additional restrictions specific to that heritage. Your GM
may place other restrictions on which ancestries can use
a given versatile heritage based on the story and setting.
Playing a Versatile
Heritage
To play a character with a versatile heritage, first select
your ancestry, just like you would for any character. You
gain Hit Points, size, Speed, ability boosts and ability flaws,
languages, traits, and other abilities from that ancestry.
Then, instead of choosing a heritage from those normally
available to that ancestry, apply your chosen versatile
heritage. You gain all the features from your versatile
heritage, some of which might modify or replace statistics,
abilities, or traits from your ancestry.
Since a versatile heritage is a heritage, you can have
only one, and you can’t have any other heritage in
addition to your versatile heritage.
Sometimes a versatile heritage might give you an
ability that conflicts with an ability from your ancestry.
In these cases, you choose which of the conflicting
abilities your character has.
When selecting ancestry feats, you can choose from
those available to your ancestry as well as those
specific to your versatile heritage.
LINEAGE FEATS
Some ancestry feats within a versatile heritage have
the lineage trait. These feats specify a physiological
lineage your character has—such as the type of hag
that birthed a changeling character, or the type of fiend
that influenced a tiefling’s birth. You can have only one
lineage feat; you can select such a feat only at 1st level,
and you can’t retrain into or out of this feat.
VERSATILE HERITAGES
The peoples of Golarion are many, and they have a long history of intermingling. The
inevitable offspring of these mixed unions share physiological features with both their
parents, manifesting as a specific heritage. The most common of these by far are the half-elf
and half-orc human ancestries. Some individuals, however, are born under far stranger
circumstances, such as a monstrous, undead, or extraplanar parent, a powerful curse, or an
incursion of extraplanar energies. As these circumstances aren’t unique to a single ancestry,
these heritages—called versatile heritages—are likewise shared by many ancestries.
Advanced Player's Guide
28
28
