Sorcerer Feats
At each level that you gain a sorcerer feat, you can
select one of the following feats. You must satisfy any
prerequisites before taking the feat.
1ST LEVEL
ANCESTRAL BLOOD MAGIC
FEAT 1
SORCERER
The magic of your bloodline mixes with that of your
ancestry. You gain your blood magic effect when you cast a
non-cantrip spell you gained from a heritage or an ancestry
feat, in addition to the normal circumstances that trigger
your blood magic.
2ND LEVEL
ANOINT ALLY [one-action]
FEAT 2
MANIPULATE
SORCERER
You forge a mystical connection with an ally using your
body as a focus, allowing them to benefit from your magic.
You place a blood rune on an adjacent ally that lasts for 1
minute. When you would gain a blood magic effect, you can
forgo it, granting it to your ally instead. You can anoint only
one ally at a time; if you place another rune, your previous
designation ends.
ENTREAT WITH FOREBEARS
FEAT 2
SORCERER
Prerequisites a bloodline that corresponds with a creature
trait
Something about your presence causes creatures of your
bloodline to, consciously or not, recognize you as one of
their own, and you become inured to their tricks. You gain
a +1 circumstance bonus to Diplomacy, Deception, and
Intimidation checks when interacting with creatures that
have the trait corresponding to your bloodline, and you gain
a +1 circumstance bonus to Perception and saving throws
against such creatures. For example, an aberrant bloodline
sorcerer would gain this benefit against creatures with the
aberration trait. The GM is the final arbiter of which creatures
match your bloodline.
4TH LEVEL
ELABORATE FLOURISH [one-action]
FEAT 4
CONCENTRATE
MANIPULATE
METAMAGIC
SORCERER
You embellish your spellcasting with entrancing flourishes
and grand pronouncements, making it harder to identify or
counter. If the next action you use is to Cast a Spell, creatures
with the ability to Cast that Spell don’t automatically
know what the spell is. In addition, creatures that witness
your spellcasting take a –2 circumstance penalty to
checks to identify the spell with Recall Knowledge and
checks to counteract the spell during its casting (such as
with Counterspell).
SPLIT SHOT [one-action]
FEAT 4
CONCENTRATE
METAMAGIC
SORCERER
You fragment a ranged spell into a pair of smaller shots. If your
next action is to Cast a Spell without a duration that requires
an attack roll against a single target and has no effect beyond
dealing damage, you roll a single attack roll and compare the
result to the AC of two targets within the spell’s range. The
spell deals only half its usual damage to each target. This
counts as one attack for your multiple attack penalty.
6TH LEVEL
DIVERTING VORTEX [one-action]
FEAT 6
SORCERER
Requirements Your most recent action was to cast a non-
cantrip spell.
You transfer vestiges of magical energy to the air around you,
creating a vortex that deflects ranged attacks. Until the start
of your next turn, you gain a +1 status bonus to AC against
ranged weapon attacks and physical ranged unarmed attacks.
ENERGETIC RESONANCE [reaction]
FEAT 6
ABJURATION
SORCERER
Trigger You would take acid, cold, electricity, fire, or sonic
damage from a spell.
Requirements You have an unexpended spell slot of a level
equal to or higher than the triggering spell.
Your blood resonates with magical energy, mitigating the
effects of harmful spells. Expend one of your spell slots of a
level equal to or higher than that of the triggering spell. You
gain resistance to one of the triggering effect’s damage types
equal to twice the expended spell slot’s level.
SPELL RELAY [reaction]
FEAT 6
CONCENTRATE
SORCERER
Trigger An ally Casts a Spell and you are within that spell’s
range.
You open the power in your blood to your ally’s spellcasting,
using your magic to boost their range. Your ally can use you
as the point of origin for their spell, calculating range and
cover from your space instead of their own.
8TH LEVEL
SAFEGUARDED SPELL [one-action]
FEAT 8
CONCENTRATE
METAMAGIC
SORCERER
You bring the magical wavelengths of your spell into sync
with the ones produced by your own body. If the next action
you take is to Cast a Spell with an area, you aren’t affected
by the spell even if you are within the area.
SOULSIGHT
FEAT 8
SORCERER
Prerequisites bloodline that grants divine or occult spells
The spiritual essence in your blood has opened your senses
to the world beyond. You gain spiritsense as an imprecise
Classes
2
139
139
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Archetypes
Feats
Spells
items
glossary
& index
