by roughly 1 percent of the distance traveled, to a maximum
of 10 miles off target.
Failure The teleportation circle doesn’t function.
Critical Failure The teleportation circle is wildly inaccurate. It
leads to a random destination roughly the same distance
from the origin point, and the chances of some other
unusual mishap are much greater.
Heightened (9th) The cost increases to 2,000 gp, the duration
increases to 1 month, and the destination can be anywhere
on the same planet.
Heightened (10th) The cost increases to 10,000 gp, the
duration is unlimited, and the destination can be anywhere
on the same planet.
UNSEEN CUSTODIANS
RITUAL 3
UNCOMMON
CONJURATION
Cast 1 day; Cost rare oils, salts, and herbs worth a total value
of 15 gp; Secondary Casters 2
Primary Check Arcana or Occultism (expert); Secondary
Checks Arcana or Occultism (whichever isn’t used for the
primary check), Diplomacy
Area 100 feet × 100 feet, up to 20 feet high
Duration 1 year
You create a site-bound, long-lasting unseen servant spell
effect, forming entities of pure force to carry out basic tasks
at a fixed location.
Critical Success The ritual creates six unseen servants (Core
Rulebook 380). You don’t need to concentrate on them, and
they aren’t summoned minions. You can spend an action, which
has the concentrate trait, to command one to perform a basic
task; it continues to perform the task until commanded again.
Success As critical success, but the ritual creates three unseen
servants.
Failure The ritual fails to create any servants.
Critical Failure The ritual creates six unseen servants, but
these creatures are hostile and capable of making fist
Strikes with an attack bonus equal to your skill modifier
for the primary skill check, dealing 1d6 force damage. They
attack you and your allies and attempt to break objects
belonging to you and your allies within the area.
Heightened (6th) If destroyed, the unseen servants reform the
next morning. The cost increases to 30 gp.
WARD DOMAIN
RITUAL 6
UNCOMMON
ABJURATION
Cast 1 day; Cost rare incenses, oils, and powdered silver, worth
150 gp total; Secondary Casters 3
Primary Check Arcana, Nature, or Occultism (master);
Secondary Checks Lore (any), Survival, Thievery
Area 100 feet × 100 feet, up to 50 feet high
Duration 1 week
This ritual has long been used to guard the private sanctums of
powerful rulers, spellcasters, and other figures of import. You
and the other casters spend the casting time burning incense,
anointing doorframes, and drawing lines of powered silver
across entryways. The ritual creates the following magical
effects within the area; these effects are heightened to the level
of ward domain and remain throughout the duration.
All gates, doors, windows, and similar apertures in the area
(if any) are locked, with the effects of lock. In addition, you can
obscure up to six doors, doorways, or similar entrances within
the area with the effects of illusory object to appear as plain
walls. Scrying spells can’t perceive any stimuli from the area,
and ward domain attempts to counteract teleportation effects
into or out of the area, including attempts to summon creatures
into the area, using a modifier equal to the ritual’s save DC – 10.
A successful dispel magic used on a specific effect removes
only that effect (such as the lock effect on one window). A
successful disjunction ends the entire ritual.
Critical Success You create the effects described above, and
you protect an area twice as large.
Success You create the effects described above.
Failure The ritual has no effect.
Critical Failure The area becomes trapped and hostile to you
and your allies in a way you didn’t anticipate.
Heightened (+1) The ward covers an additional area 100 feet ×
100 feet, up to 50 feet high, which must be contiguous with
the original area.
WORD OF RECALL
RITUAL 7
RARE
CONJURATION
TELEPORTATION
Cast 7 days; Cost rare oils and powdered minerals worth
5,000 gp; Secondary Casters 2
Primary Check Arcana or Occultism (expert, the check has
the secret trait); Secondary Checks Arcana or Occultism
(whichever isn’t used for the primary check), Society
Range 20 feet; Targets Up to seven willing creatures of 14th
level or lower
Duration 1 year
You bind yourself and your allies to the specific safe location
where you perform the ritual. This allows the participants to
return later by simply speaking a word.
Success You form the connection with the designated
sanctuary. Any participant in the ritual can spend a single
action, which has the concentrate trait, to utter a word of
power you choose when you cast the spell. When they do,
all the participants can immediately return to the sanctuary
from any distance, as long as they are on the same plane
as the sanctuary. Each participant arrives in the position in
which they were standing during the casting of the ritual.
When the word is spoken, all other participants know it, and
each can choose whether or not to return to the sanctuary
at that time. The ritual then immediately ends.
Failure You fail to form the connection between the participants
and the sanctuary and are aware that the ritual has failed.
Critical Failure The ritual inadvertently forms a connection
with a location on another plane. The casters are unaware
of this misalignment. When the word is invoked, all ritual
participants are shifted to this extraplanar location.
Heightened (+1) The cost increases by 5,000 gp, the ritual
can target one more creature, and the maximum level of
creature it can target increases by 2.
Spells
5
245
245
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Archetypes
Feats
Spells
items
glossary
& Index
