JUNGLE CATFOLK
You’re descended from jungle stalkers and can move
swiftly through scrub and underbrush. You ignore
difficult terrain from undergrowth, and greater difficult
terrain from undergrowth is only difficult terrain for you.
NINE LIVES CATFOLK
Your family has always seemed to bounce back from
disaster, not through physical hardiness or specialized
skill, but from sheer luck. Other catfolk whisper that you
have nine lives. If you are reduced to 0 Hit Points by a
critical hit on an attack roll, you become dying 1 instead
of dying 2.
WINTER CATFOLK
You have a thick coat of fur that protects you from the
cold. You gain cold resistance equal to half your level
(minimum 1). You treat environmental cold effects
as if they were one step less extreme (incredible cold
becomes extreme, extreme cold becomes severe, and
so on).
Ancestry Feats
At 1st level, you gain one ancestry feat, and you gain an
additional ancestry feat every 4 levels thereafter (at 5th,
9th, 13th, and 17th level). As a catfolk, you select from
among the following ancestry feats.
1ST LEVEL
CAT’S LUCK [free-action]
FEAT 1
CATFOLK
FORTUNE
Frequency once per day
Trigger You fail a Reflex saving throw.
You instinctively twist away from danger. You can reroll the
triggering saving throw and use the better result.
CATFOLK LORE
FEAT 1
CATFOLK
Growing up among catfolk has taught you the traditional
values of freedom to travel, stewardship of the land, and quick
reactions when your curiosity lands you in trouble. You gain
the trained proficiency rank in Acrobatics and Survival. If you
would automatically become trained in one of those skills
(from your background or class, for example), you instead
become trained in a skill of your choice. You also become
trained in Catfolk Lore.
CATFOLK WEAPON FAMILIARITY
FEAT 1
CATFOLK
You favor weapons that you can use with quick, darting
slashes like a cat’s claws. You are trained with the hatchet,
kama, kukri, scimitar, and sickle. In addition, you gain access
to kama, kukris, and all uncommon catfolk weapons. For you,
martial catfolk weapons are simple weapons and advanced
catfolk weapons are martial weapons.
WELL-MET TRAVELER
FEAT 1
CATFOLK
You have seen people from so many walks of life in your
travels that you naturally adopt a pleasant and affable
demeanor when meeting others. You are trained in Diplomacy.
If you would automatically become trained in Diplomacy (from
your background or class, for example), you instead become
trained in a skill of your choice.
In addition, you gain the Hobnobber skill feat.
5TH LEVEL
CATFOLK WEAPON RAKE
FEAT 5
CATFOLK
Prerequisites Catfolk Weapon Familiarity
You know how to efficiently use weapons that rake across your
enemies. Whenever you critically hit using a catfolk weapon
or one of the weapons listed in Catfolk Weapon Familiarity,
you apply the weapon’s critical specialization effect.
CLIMBING CLAWS
FEAT 5
CATFOLK
You can extend your claws to aid you in climbing. You gain a
climb Speed of 10 feet.
EXPANDED LUCK
FEAT 5
CATFOLK
Prerequisites Cat’s Luck
You are luckier even than most catfolk. You can trigger Cat’s
Luck when you fail or critically fail a Fortitude or Will saving
throw in addition to Reflex saving throws. You still can use
Cat’s Luck only once per day.
LIGHT PAWS [two-actions]
FEAT 5
CATFOLK
You can balance on your toes to step carefully over obstructions.
You Stride and then Step, or Step and then Stride, ignoring
difficult terrain during this movement.
SPRINGING LEAPER
FEAT 5
CATFOLK
Prerequisites expert in Athletics
Your powerful legs allow you to make sudden and dramatic
leaps. You can Leap as a 2-action activity to double the
distance you can Leap vertically, or Leap as a 3-action
activity to triple the distance you can Leap vertically. You
don’t automatically fail Long Jumps for jumping in a different
direction than your Stride.
9TH LEVEL
AGGRAVATING SCRATCH
FEAT 9
CATFOLK
DISEASE
Prerequisites claw unarmed attack
Your claws carry an irritant that is harmless to you but can be
damaging to others. Your claw Strikes deal an additional 1d4
Advanced Player's Guide
1010
