Arcane Thesis
STAFF NEXUS
Your thesis maintains that early and intense adoption of
staves from the first days of study can create a symbiotic
bond between spellcaster and staff, allowing them to
create remarkable magic together. You’ve formed such a
connection with a makeshift staff you built, and you are
ready to infuse any staff you encounter with greater power.
You begin play with a makeshift staff of your own
invention. It contains one cantrip and one 1st-level spell,
both from your spellbook, but it gains no charges normally
during your preparations; you must expend a spell slot to
grant it charges in the same way you would add additional
charges to a normal staff (Core Rulebook 592). You can
Craft your makeshift staff into any other type of staff
for the new staff’s usual cost, adding the two spells you
originally chose to the staff you Craft.
At 8th level, you can expend two spells instead of one
when preparing your staff, adding additional charges
equal to the combined levels of the expended spells. At
16th level, you can expend up to a total of three spells to
add charges to the staff, adding additional charges equal to
the combined levels of all three spells.
Wizard Feats
1ST LEVEL
SPELLBOOK PRODIGY
FEAT 1
WIZARD
Prerequisites trained in Arcana
You are particularly adept at learning spells to add to your
spellbook. You can Learn a Spell in half the time it normally
takes. Further, when you roll a critical failure on your check to
Learn a Spell, you get a failure instead. When you roll a failure,
you can try again after 1 week.
2ND LEVEL
ENERGY ABLATION [one-action]
FEAT 2
METAMAGIC
WIZARD
When you cast energy spells, you retain some of that energy
as a protective barrier. If your next action is to Cast a Spell that
deals energy damage (Core Rulebook 452), whether or not it
successfully deals damage, you gain resistance to that type of
energy equal to the spell’s level (minimum 1) until the end of
your next turn. If the spell deals more than one type of energy
damage, choose one and gain resistance to that type.
NONLETHAL SPELL [one-action]
FEAT 2
MANIPULATE
METAMAGIC
WIZARD
You can alter offensive spells to be less deadly. If your next
action is to Cast a Spell that deals damage and doesn’t have the
death or negative trait, that spell gains the nonlethal trait.
4TH LEVEL
CALL BONDED ITEM [one-action]
FEAT 4
CONCENTRATE
CONJURATION
TELEPORTATION
WIZARD
Prerequisites arcane bond
You’re mystically connected to your bonded item and can call it
to your hand. If your bonded item is 1 Bulk or less, you teleport
your bonded item into your hand from up to 1 mile away.
6TH LEVEL
CONVINCING ILLUSION [reaction]
FEAT 6
ILLUSION
WIZARD
Prerequisites expert in Deception
Trigger A creature succeeded, but didn’t critically succeed,
at a Perception check or Will save to disbelieve an illusion
from a spell that you cast.
Requirements You are within 30 feet of the observer and
the illusion.
You use your deceptive skills to make your illusions seem
even more real. Attempt a Deception check against the
target’s Perception DC. If you succeed, the target fails to
disbelieve the illusion.
SPLIT SLOT
FEAT 6
WIZARD
You can prepare two spells in one slot, giving you the freedom
to choose the spell when you cast it. When you prepare your
spells for the day, you can choose one spell slot at least 1 level
lower than the highest-level spell you can cast and prepare
two spells in that slot. When you Cast a Spell from that slot,
choose which spell to cast. Once you’ve chosen, the unused
spell dissipates as though you hadn’t prepared it at all—for
example, it isn’t available for use with Drain Bonded Item.
8TH LEVEL
FORM RETENTION
FEAT 8
WIZARD
You have trained your mind and body to tolerate polymorph
magic for longer periods of time, so long as you prepare for the
change appropriately. When preparing a polymorph spell that
lasts 1 minute and grants a battle form, you can prepare the
WIZARD
In addition to new ways to manipulate magical energies, this section features
a new arcane thesis for wizards that wish to master the art of staff crafting.
Advanced Player's Guide
142
142
