At 1st level, you can prepare up to two 1st-level spells
and five cantrips each morning from the spells your familiar
knows. Prepared spells remain available to you until you
cast them or until you prepare your spells again. The
number of spells you can prepare is called your spell slots.
As you increase in level as a witch, your number of
spell slots and the highest level of spells you can cast from
spell slots increase, as shown in Table 2–7: Witch Spells
per Day on page 98.
Some of your spells require you to attempt a spell attack
roll to see how effective they are, or have your enemies
roll against your spell DC (typically by attempting a saving
throw). Since your key ability is Intelligence, your spell
attack rolls and spell DCs use your Intelligence modifier.
HeigHtening SpellS
When you get spell slots of 2nd level and higher, you can
fill those slots with stronger versions of lower-level spells.
This increases the spell’s level, heightening it to match the
spell slot. Many spells have specific improvements when
they are heightened to certain levels.
CantripS
A cantrip is a special type of spell that doesn’t use spell
slots. You can cast a cantrip at will, any number of times
per day. A cantrip is always automatically heightened
to half your level rounded up—this is
usually equal to the highest level of
spell you can cast as a witch. For
example, as a 1st-level witch, your
cantrips are 1st-level spells, and as
a 5th-level witch, your cantrips are
3rd-level spells.
HEXES
Your patron and familiar teach you
special spells called hexes. A
hex is a short-term effect drawn
directly from your patron’s
magic. As such, you can cast
only one hex each turn; attempts to
cast a second hex spell on that turn fail
and the spellcasting actions are lost.
Hexes are a type of focus spell.
It costs 1 Focus Point to cast a
focus spell, and you start with
a focus pool of 1 Focus Point. You
refill your focus pool during your daily
preparations, and you can regain 1 Focus
Point by spending 10 minutes using the
Refocus activity to commune with your familiar.
Focus spells are automatically heightened to
half your level rounded up. Focus spells don’t require
spell slots, and you can’t cast them using spell slots.
Certain feats can give you more focus spells and increase
the size of your focus pool, though your focus pool can
never hold more than 3 Focus Points. The full rules for
focus spells appear on page 300 of the Core Rulebook.
You learn the phase familiar hex (page 239), which you
can cast as a reaction to protect your familiar from harm.
You learn most other hexes from witch lessons (page 99).
Classes
2
97
97
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Archetypes
Feats
Spells
items
glossary
& index
