GEAR DESCRIPTIONS
Brass Ear: A brass ear is a short, flared tube with one end
narrow enough to comfortably fit against the ear canal.
When using a brass ear to listen through a door, window,
thin wall, or similar barrier, if the barrier would normally
increase the DC of your Perception check to hear sounds
on the other side, the DC increases by only half as much
as normal.
Concealed Sheath: This leather sheath is large enough to
hold an item of up to light Bulk and is typically used for
daggers, wands, thieves’ tools, and similar objects. You can
affix it to the inside of a boot, under a bracer or sleeve, or
in other inconspicuous locations to gain a +1 item bonus to
Stealth checks and DCs to hide or conceal the item within.
Detective’s Kit: This leather satchel contains empty
vials, a pair of tweezers, a supply of small linen cloths,
a set of brass calipers and a knotted string for measuring
distances, several pieces of chalk, a pen, and a blank
notebook for keeping notes. Every component of a
detective’s kit is of exceeding quality, and thus a detective’s
kit adds a +1 item bonus to checks to investigate a crime
scene, a clue, or similar details.
Dueling Cape: You can pull a dueling cape you’re
wearing from your shoulder and wrap it around your arm
with an Interact action. While wielding the dueling cape
this way, the cape uses that arm and hand, and you can’t
hold anything else in that hand. While you do so, you can
spend an action to hold it in a protective position, giving
you a +1 circumstance bonus to AC and to Deception
checks to Feint until the start of your next turn.
Net: You can use a net either on its own or attached to
a rope. When attached to a rope, you can use the net to
Grapple a Medium or smaller creature up to 10 feet away
(instead of only adjacent creatures). You can continue to
Grapple to keep your hold on the target so long as the
target remains within 10 feet and you continue to hold
the net. The grabbed creature gains a +2 circumstance
bonus to Escape unless you are adjacent to them, and
it can attempt a DC 16 Athletics check to Force Open
the net entirely. Once the target is no longer grabbed, the
net is unwieldy until refolded as a Concentrate action
that requires two hands; if used without being refolded,
Grapple checks made with the net take a –2 penalty.
When the net is unattached, you can attempt a ranged
attack roll against a Medium or smaller creature within
20 feet. On a hit, the target is flat-footed and takes a –10-
foot circumstance penalty to its Speeds until it Escapes,
and on a critical hit, it’s also immobilized until it Escapes.
The Escape DC is 16. A creature adjacent to the target
can Interact to remove the net.
Parrying Scabbard: You can draw this reinforced
sheath during the same Interact action you use to draw
the weapon it holds, wielding the weapon in one hand and
the scabbard in your other. A parrying scabbard can be
used for your defense much like a weapon with the parry
trait: you can spend an action to position it defensively,
gaining a +1 circumstance bonus to AC until the start of
your next turn. Parrying scabbards are available for any
sword that can be wielded in one hand.
Periscope: This is a 2-foot-long tube with two angled
mirrors, one at each end. When the mirrors are aligned
correctly, you can look around obstacles while remaining
behind cover. This doesn’t provide a sufficient line of
effect to target creatures around corners.
INVESTIGATOR
Price 9 gp, 2 sp; Bulk 3 Bulk, 5 light; Money
Leftover 5 gp, 8 sp
Armor studded leather armor
Weapons sap, short sword, crossbow with 20 bolts
Gear adventurer’s pack, crowbar
Options alchemist’s tools (3 gp), simple manacles (3 gp),
writing set (1 gp)
ORACLE
Price 5 gp, 5 sp, 2 cp; Bulk 3 Bulk, 3 light;
Money Leftover 9 gp, 4 sp, 8 cp
Armor studded leather armor
Weapons mace, sling with 20 sling bullets
Gear adventurer’s pack
Options steel shield (2 gp), healer’s tools (5 gp)
SWASHBUCKLER
Price 8 gp, 7 sp; Bulk 3 Bulk, 3 light; Money
Leftover 6 gp, 3 sp
Armor leather armor
Weapons hand crossbow with 20 bolts, rapier
Gear adventurer’s pack
Options buckler (1 gp), dueling cape (5 sp; see above), fine
clothing (2 gp), grappling hook (1 sp), main-gauche (5 sp)
WITCH
Price 2 gp, 3 sp, 2 cp; Bulk 2 Bulk, 6 light;
Money Leftover 12 gp, 6 sp, 8 cp
Weapons sickle, sling with 20 bullets, staff
Gear adventurer’s pack, explorer’s clothing, material
component pouch
Options cookware (1 gp), healer’s tools (5 gp)
Class Kits
If you want to quickly decide how to spend your starting money when playing a class from this book, start with one of
these kits. The Armor, Weapons, and Gear entries include the basics, and the Options entries suggest additional items
you might purchase with your leftover money to fit your character. Note than an adventurer’s pack, which is included
in each kit, is 1 Bulk and contains a backpack, a bedroll, 10 pieces of chalk, flint and steel, 50 feet of rope, 2 weeks’
rations, soap, 5 torches, and a waterskin.
Items
6
249
249
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Archetypes
Feats
Spells
items
glossary
& Index
