Vigilante
As a vigilante, you have two faces: a public persona, and
a secret identity that lets you hide your extralegal actions
from polite society. Your secret identity lets you adventure
and carry out clandestine missions while keeping the
civilians you care about safe. Whatever your purpose—
fighting crime, inciting rebellion, sowing chaos—your
vigilante identity makes you both hard to pin down and
a mysterious, intriguing subject of gossip.
Additional Feats: 4th Quick Draw (Pathfinder Core
Rulebook 172)
VIGILANTE DEDICATION
FEAT 2
UNCOMMON
ARCHETYPE
DEDICATION
Prerequisites trained in Deception
You have two identities, each with its own name, alignment,
and abilities. Your social identity is an upstanding member of
society, while your vigilante identity is a skilled and cunning
warrior. Neither of these identities is a false front; you really
are both of these people, and as such, your two identities can
be at most one alignment step from each other (for instance,
you could be neutral in one identity and neutral evil in the
other, but not chaotic evil in the other). If someone attempts
to discern your other identity, they must use a Seek action
to attempt a Perception check against your Deception DC,
as if you were using the Impersonate action. Your Deception
DC against such attempts is 20 + your proficiency modifier
instead of the normal DC. Unlike with Impersonate, you don’t
have to attempt a Deception check to interact with someone
to conceal your other identity—a check happens only if
someone else specifically tries to uncover your other identity.
Changing from one identity to the other takes 1 minute
and must be done out of sight from other creatures. As this
process involves both physical changes such as clothing and
makeup along with an altered state of mind, other effects
that change your appearance don’t reduce the time required
to change identities.
Your two identities are completely distinct. You have
your current identity’s alignment for effects that rely on
alignment, though you are eligible for abilities that require
a certain alignment (such as a cleric’s deity) only if both of
your identities qualify. Checks to Recall Knowledge about
one of your identities don’t reveal information about the
other unless the person attempting the check knows both
identities are the same person. Effects that detect you based
on your identity, such as the detect alignment spell, work
only if you are currently in the identity the effect is trying to
detect; otherwise, the effect fails as if the target didn’t exist.
To maintain the separation between your identities, some
of your abilities have one of two traits: social or vigilante.
You can use social feats only while in your social identity.
Your class feats and vigilante feats are associated with your
vigilante identity, and using them while in your social identity
risks exposing you as a vigilante. This means that if you were
particularly meek or inconspicuous before you took this feat,
your identity could be at greater risk of exposure. If your
identity is exposed to the public, you lose the benefits of
Vigilante Dedication to disguising yourself, but you can
otherwise use both social and vigilante abilities in either
identity unless they rely on your identity being a secret. You
can use feats that don’t have either trait regardless of your
current identity.
Special You can’t select another dedication feat until you
have gained two other feats from the vigilante archetype.
HIDDEN MAGIC
FEAT 4
ARCHETYPE
SKILL
Prerequisites expert in Arcana, Nature, Occultism, or Religion;
Vigilante Dedication
You’ve learned to hide the magical auras of your gear.
During your daily preparations, you carefully tweak any
or all of your magic items to appear non-magical. Objects
adjusted in this way remain so until your next preparations.
A spellcaster using detect magic or read aura must succeed
at a Perception check against your Deception DC to see
through your obfuscations.
MINION GUISE
FEAT 4
ARCHETYPE
SKILL
SOCIAL
Prerequisites animal companion or familiar, expert in
Deception, Vigilante Dedication
When you are in your social identity, you can also grant a
social identity to an animal companion, familiar, or other
minion you gained from a class feature. When changing
to your social identity, you also change your minion’s
appearance to that of a socially acceptable creature of its
type, such as grooming a wolf to appear as a large dog or
disguising a familiar to appear as an exotic pet. Commanding
your minion to use unusual magical or combat abilities it
gained from your class features or feats while in this social
identity risks exposing your vigilante identity.
SAFE HOUSE
FEAT 4
ARCHETYPE
Prerequisites Vigilante Dedication
You establish a safe house—a secure space in which to
hide your secrets from the outside world. This safe house
is roughly the size of a 10-foot cube. It’s in a location you
have access to, and it can be part of a larger building or
structure, like a hidden room or an underground cave. The
safe house protects objects and people inside it from magical
detection. This has the effects of nondetection, using your
Deception modifier for the counteract DC and half your level
rounded up for the counteract level. Setting up or moving
your safe house takes a week of downtime. The size of the
safe house expands to four 10-foot cubes if you’re an expert
in Deception, eight cubes if you’re a master, and 16 cubes if
you’re legendary.
SOCIAL PURVIEW
FEAT 4
ARCHETYPE
Prerequisites Vigilante Dedication
Advanced Player's Guide
196
196
