If you can cast a spell with the revelation trait that affects your
senses, such as see invisibility, while this spell is active, you gain
the benefit of the spell through the target’s senses instead of your
own. You can also speak through the target, with a voice much
like yours, though it takes on some of the timbre and character of
the target’s growls or squawks. You can use Command an Animal
on the target as part of Sustaining this Spell. You don’t need line
of sight or line of effect to your target when you Cast this Spell.
FINAL SACRIFICE
SPELL 2
EVOCATION
FIRE
Traditions arcane, divine, occult, primal
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal
Range 120 feet; Targets 1 creature with the minion trait that
you summoned or permanently control
You channel disruptive energies through the bond between
you and your minion, causing it to violently explode. The
target is immediately slain, and creatures within 20 feet of it
take 6d6 fire damage (basic Reflex save).
If the target has the cold or water trait, the spell instead
deals cold damage and gains the cold trait in place of the fire
trait. If used on a creature that isn’t mindless, this spell has
the evil trait. Attempting to cast this spell targeting a creature
that you temporarily seized control of, such as an undead
commanded by command undead, automatically fails and
breaks the controlling effect.
Heightened (+1) The damage increases by 2d6.
FORCE CAGE
SPELL 7
EVOCATION
FORCE
Traditions arcane, occult
Cast [three-actions] material, somatic, verbal
Range 30 feet; Area 1 cube 20 feet on each side
Saving Throw Reflex; Duration sustained up to 1 minute
You create an immobile, invisible prison of sheer force. The
cage is a 20-foot cube made of bands of force, each a half
inch thick and a half inch apart, that extend to the Ethereal
Plane. Each creature in the area where you create the cage
must attempt a Reflex save. If such a creature fails, it becomes
trapped inside the cage. If it succeeds, it’s pushed outside the
cage into a space of its choice. If a creature in the area is too
big to fit inside the prison, the spell automatically fails.
The cage has AC 10, Hardness 20, and 40 Hit Points, and
it’s immune to critical hits and precision damage. A creature
capable of passing through the space between the bars
(typically a Tiny creature) can leave; all others are confined
within. Attacks with a weapon too large to fit between
the bars can’t pass through the cage, and the bars provide
standard cover even against attacks that can pass through
the gaps. Spells and breath weapons can pass through the
cage uninhibited.
Force cage is immune to counteracting effects of its level
or lower, but it is automatically destroyed by a disintegrate
spell of any level, or by contact with a rod of cancellation (page
262) or sphere of annihilation (Gamemastery Guide 113).
Spells
5
219
219
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Archetypes
Feats
Spells
items
glossary
& index
