TANGLE OF BATTLE [reaction]
FEAT 10
BARBARIAN
RAGE
Trigger You critically hit an adjacent enemy.
Your incredibly vicious Strike pulls you right in close, giving
you the opportunity to grab your foe. Attempt to Grapple the
triggering enemy.
12TH LEVEL
EMBRACE THE PAIN [reaction]
FEAT 12
BARBARIAN
RAGE
Trigger A creature damages you with a melee attack.
Ignoring your pain, you reach out and grab the creature or
weapon that caused you harm. Attempt an Athletics check to
Grapple the triggering creature or to Disarm the creature of
the triggering weapon.
SUNDER SPELL [two-actions]
FEAT 12
ATTACK
BARBARIAN
CONCENTRATE
RAGE
Prerequisites superstition instinct
You draw upon your superstitious fury to destroy a spell. Make
a Strike with a melee weapon or an unarmed attack against
a creature, object, or a spell manifestation (such as the wall
created by wall of fire or the guardian from spiritual guardian).
If your Strike hits, you can attempt to counteract a single spell
or magical effect on the target. Your counteract level for this
attempt is equal to half your level rounded up, and you use the
result of your attack roll for the counteract check.
Whether or not you succeed at your Strike, the target
becomes temporarily immune to your Sunder Spell for 24 hours.
UNBALANCING SWEEP [three-actions]
FEAT 12
BARBARIAN
FLOURISH
OPEN
You make a great sweep about yourself, knocking creatures
off their feet and away from you. Choose up to three adjacent
foes and choose whether to Shove or Trip all three of them.
Whichever of the two options you choose, roll a separate
Athletics check against each foe, performing the same action
against each foe. Each attempt counts toward your multiple
attack penalty, but don’t increase your penalty until you
have made all the attempts.
14TH LEVEL
IMPALING THRUST [two-actions]
FEAT 14
BARBARIAN
RAGE
Requirements You are wielding a melee weapon that deals
piercing damage.
You impale your enemy and hold them in place with your
weapon. Make a melee Strike with the required weapon. If
the Strike hits and deals damage, your target is grabbed
until they successfully Escape, you attack with the required
weapon, or you Release the required weapon, whichever
comes first. When the target is no longer grabbed, they take
persistent bleed damage equal to the number of weapon
damage dice.
SUNDER ENCHANTMENT
FEAT 14
BARBARIAN
Prerequisites Sunder Spell
You can focus your superstition to break the magic of an
item, in addition to destroying freestanding spells and those
active on creatures. When you Sunder a Spell, you can
instead attempt to counteract either an unattended magic
item or one of your target’s magic items. If your counteract
attempt succeeds, the item becomes a mundane item of its
type for 10 minutes. If you target an artifact, an intelligent
item, or a particularly powerful item, your counteract
attempt automatically fails.
16TH LEVEL
FURIOUS VENGEANCE [reaction]
FEAT 16
BARBARIAN
RAGE
Prerequisites fury instinct
Trigger An enemy within your melee reach critically hits you
with a melee Strike.
Your enemy’s blow fuels your rage and provokes your
immediate retaliation. Make a melee Strike against the
triggering enemy.
PENETRATING PROJECTILE [two-actions]
FEAT 16
BARBARIAN
FLOURISH
RAGE
Requirements You are wielding a ranged or thrown weapon
that deals piercing damage.
Your projectiles are unhindered by flesh and bone. Make a
ranged Strike against each creature in a 30-foot line. These
attacks ignore lesser cover, cover, and greater cover granted
by creatures. Roll damage only once and apply it to each
creature you hit. Each attack counts toward your multiple
attack penalty, but don’t increase your penalty until you have
made all your attacks.
SHATTERING BLOWS
FEAT 16
BARBARIAN
RAGE
Your forceful blows shatter objects with ease. While you
are raging, your melee Strikes ignore 5 points of an object’s
Hardness. If you have the devastator class feature, you
instead ignore 10 points of an object’s Hardness.
20TH LEVEL
UNSTOPPABLE JUGGERNAUT
FEAT 20
BARBARIAN
You have become a brutal, unstoppable force of nature, able
to shrug off mortal wounds with ease. You gain resistance
equal to 3 + your Constitution modifier to all damage,
and your resistance from raging increases to 8 + your
Constitution modifier.
In addition, if you are reduced to 0 Hit Points while raging,
you can end your rage as a reaction to stay at 1 Hit Point. If
you do, you become wounded 2 (or increase your wounded
condition by 2 if you are already wounded).
Classes
2
111
111
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Archetypes
Feats
Spells
items
glossary
& index
