Fighter Feats
1ST LEVEL
COMBAT ASSESSMENT [one-action]
FEAT 1
FIGHTER
You make a telegraphed attack to learn about your foe. Make a
melee Strike. On a hit, you can immediately attempt a check to
Recall Knowledge about the target. On a critical hit, you gain a
+2 circumstance bonus to the check to Recall Knowledge. The
target is temporarily immune to Combat Assessment for 1 day.
2ND LEVEL
DRAGGING STRIKE [one-action]
FEAT 2
FIGHTER
PRESS
You aim your weapon to snag a foe’s armor, clothing, or flesh
to pull them closer. Make a melee Strike. If you hit a target
that is your size or smaller, that creature is flat-footed until the
end of your current turn, and you can move it 5 feet toward
you. When you move the creature, you can move the same
distance in the same direction as it, even if you’re adjacent to
the target. This movement doesn’t trigger reactions.
This Strike has the following failure effect.
Failure The target becomes flat-footed until the end of your
current turn.
REBOUNDING TOSS [two-actions]
FEAT 2
FIGHTER
FLOURISH
Requirements You are wielding a thrown weapon.
You bounce your weapon off one foe to strike another. Make
a ranged Strike with a thrown weapon. If this Strike hits,
the weapon rebounds toward an enemy within 10 feet of
the original target. Make an additional Strike against this
second target. Both attacks count toward your multiple attack
penalty, but the penalty doesn’t increase until after you’ve
made both attacks.
4TH LEVEL
BARRELING CHARGE [two-actions]
FEAT 4
FIGHTER
FLOURISH
Prerequisites trained in Athletics
You rush forward, moving enemies aside to reach your foe.
You Stride, attempting to move through your enemies’ spaces,
and make a melee Strike. Roll an Athletics check and compare
the result to the Fortitude DC of each creature whose space
you attempt to move through during your Stride, moving
through their space on a success but ending your movement
before entering their space on a failure. You can use Barreling
Charge to Burrow, Climb, Fly, or Swim instead of Stride if you
have the corresponding movement type.
PARTING SHOT [two-actions]
FEAT 4
FIGHTER
Requirements You are wielding a loaded ranged weapon or a
ranged weapon with reload 0.
You jump back and fire a quick shot that catches your opponent
off guard. You Step and then make a ranged Strike with the
required weapon. Your target is flat-footed against the attack.
6TH LEVEL
DAZING BLOW [one-action]
FEAT 6
FIGHTER
PRESS
Requirements You have a creature grabbed.
You pummel a held foe, hoping to stagger them. Make a melee
Strike against a creature you have grabbed. The weapon
damage from this Strike is bludgeoning damage. If the Strike
hits, the creature must attempt a Fortitude save against your
class DC; this is an incapacitation effect.
Critical Success The creature is unaffected.
Success The creature is stunned 1.
Failure The creature is stunned 2.
Critical Failure The creature is stunned 3.
RICOCHET STANCE [one-action]
FEAT 6
FIGHTER
STANCE
You adopt a stance designed to rebound your thrown weapons
back toward you. While you are in this stance, any thrown
weapons you use as part of a ranged Strike to deal bludgeoning
or slashing damage immediately return to your hand, enabling
you to use them for additional Strikes. You must be within
the weapon’s listed range increment and have a hand free to
catch the weapon. If you make a ranged Strike with a thrown
weapon outside of its listed range increment, it instead flies
back toward you a number of feet equal to its listed range
increment and then falls to the ground.
8TH LEVEL
DISORIENTING OPENING
FEAT 8
FIGHTER
Prerequisites Attack of Opportunity
You use your foes’ openings to expose even greater
weaknesses. When you hit a creature as part of an Attack of
Opportunity, that creature becomes flat-footed until the start
of your next turn.
FIGHTER
The feats on the following pages provide further options to help fighters size
up foes, deflect spells with a slash of their blade, or rend opponents to pieces.
Advanced Player's Guide
126
126
