Most surface-dwelling humanoids call ysoki “ratfolk” and
know them as a communal people who prefer cramped
conditions, with up to 100 individuals living in a given
house. If they can’t find homes in town, ysoki may instead
live in caves and cavern complexes, as these provide great
storage for the many and varied goods they bring back
from trading expeditions.
Ratfolk love to travel, and they can often be found on
the road in merchant caravans. They’re good with their
hands and have a keen eye for spotting anything out of the
ordinary, from threats to treasures. They’re also inveterate
hoarders; ysoki warrens are crammed full of unusual odds
and ends gathered by previous generations and stowed
away in preparation for some future emergency.
If you want a character who is smart, fast, well-traveled,
and adaptable, try playing a ysoki!
RATFOLK
Ysoki—as ratfolk call themselves—are a clever, adaptable, and fastidious ancestry who
happily crowd their large families into the smallest of living spaces.
YOU MIGHT...
• Have pride in your large extended family, and stay in
contact with everyone in it.
• Like to travel near and far in search of new
experiences, likely collecting trinkets along the way.
• Work well with others.
OTHERS PROBABLY...
• Mistake you for a wererat or another monster.
• Are surprised by your careful grooming and other
fastidious habits.
• Think you’re crowding them and invading their
personal space.
PHYSICAL DESCRIPTION
Ratfolk have whiskered snouts, large ears, and hairless
tails, and typically have red eyes and short brown or black
fur. A common ysoki is 4 feet tall and weighs around
80 pounds. Ratfolk vary considerably, however; even a
single family group can exhibit substantial variation in
hair color, eye color, or size.
Instinct
drives
ysoki
to
maintain
cleanliness, though this is also reinforced
through their strong social structures.
Other condescending humanoids often
presume ratfolk are dirty or diseased, but
in actuality, they are meticulous about
personal hygiene. Because their appearance
is often considered unnatural—and other
people mistake them for wererats—ysoki often
conceal their physical features with hoods,
gloves, shoes, long-sleeved tunics, robes, and
other layers of clothing when moving through
spaces dominated by other ancestries.
SOCIETY
Ysoki culture values cooperation and community.
Every ysoki learns—through communal games, social
occasions, and sports—to forge fast friendships and
connections with ysoki outside their family. You may
never know whose help you’re going to need, but when
you do, you’re going to need it now.
With a long tradition of working as traders and tinkers,
ysoki travel frequently from one town to another. Their
wagons are usually grouped into caravans of up to half a
dozen vehicles. Ysoki wagons are pulled by exceptionally
large giant rats; many ysoki can speak to such animals.
Discrimination against ysoki has shaped their culture,
prompting them to rely on each other and strengthening
their family and communal bonds. Ysoki are very good
Advanced Player's Guide
20
20
