Pirate
You live a life of freedom, taking by force and intimidation
all that you desire. You may be a privateer, raiding and
plundering on behalf of a particular nation or another
authority, or you may answer to no one but your own
capricious whims. Either way, you rely on intimidation,
wits, and combat prowess to take what you want from
those you deem less deserving.
Pirates have much in common with swashbucklers,
and many pirates have the swashbuckler class (page 82)
or archetype (page 153). Much like a swashbuckler’s
daring deeds, classic pirate maneuvers are often
showy feats intended to impress, intimidate, and gain
panache. For example, if you have the panache class
feature and your Acrobatics check for a Boarding
Assault exceeds the very hard DC for your level, you
would gain panache.
PIRATE DEDICATION
FEAT 2
ARCHETYPE
DEDICATION
Prerequisites trained in Intimidation
As a pirate, you sail the seas in search of enemy ships to
plunder. You become trained in Sailing Lore, or become
an expert in it if you were already trained. You ignore the
effects of difficult terrain or uneven ground caused by
a ship’s movement. Additionally, you gain the Boarding
Assault action.
Boarding Assault [two-actions] (flourish) Either Stride twice or
attempt an Acrobatics check (DC determined by the
GM, but usually DC 20) to swing on a rope up to twice
your Speed. If you boarded or disembarked from a boat
or similar vehicle during this movement, you can make a
melee Strike that deals one additional weapon damage die.
Special You can’t select another dedication feat until you
have gained two other feats from the pirate archetype.
PIRATE WEAPON TRAINING
FEAT 4
ARCHETYPE
Prerequisites Pirate Dedication
You’re particularly skilled at wielding traditional pirate
weapons. You become trained with the following weapons:
hatchet, rapier, scimitar, and whip. Whenever you gain a class
feature that grants you expert or greater proficiency with
a given weapon or weapons, you also gain that proficiency
rank for these weapons.
ROPE RUNNER
FEAT 4
ARCHETYPE
SKILL
Prerequisites trained in Acrobatics and Athletics, Pirate
Dedication
You run and climb across ropes and rigging almost as easily
as on the ground. You gain a climb Speed of 15 feet, but only
on ship’s rigging or similar ropes. Whenever you succeed at
an Athletics check to Climb a rope or an Acrobatics check
to Balance on a rope, you get a critical success instead. You
aren’t flat-footed while Climbing or Balancing on a rope.
WALK THE PLANK [two-actions]
FEAT 8
ARCHETYPE
Prerequisites Pirate Dedication
You frighten a foe into moving where you want them,
traditionally demanding they walk the plank. Attempt to
Demoralize an opponent; this check gains the incapacitation
trait. On a success, in addition to the normal effects, you can
also force the target to Stride up to its Speed. You choose the
path the target takes, and it does so as part of your Walk the
Plank action. You can’t force the target to move into a harmful
space (one where it will take damage, fall, provoke reactions,
or similar) unless the result of your check to Demoralize was a
critical success. The target then becomes temporarily immune
to Walk the Plank for 24 hours.
Archetypes
3
185
185
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Archetypes
Feats
Spells
items
glossary
& index
