Class Features
You gain the following abilities as a swashbuckler.
Abilities gained at higher levels list the level next to the
features’ names.
ANCESTRY AND BACKGROUND
In addition to the abilities provided by your class at 1st
level, you have the benefits of your selected ancestry
and background.
INITIAL PROFICIENCIES
At 1st level, you gain a number of proficiencies that
represent your basic training. These proficiencies are
noted at the start of this class.
PANACHE
You care as much about the way you accomplish something
as whether you actually accomplish it in the first place.
When you perform an action with particular bravado, you
can leverage this moment of verve to perform spectacular,
deadly maneuvers. This state of flair is called panache, and
you are either in a state of panache or you are not.
You gain panache by successfully performing the skill
check associated with specific actions that have a bit of
flair, including Tumble Through (Core Rulebook 240)
and additional actions determined by your swashbuckler’s
style (see below). At the GM’s discretion, after succeeding
at a check to perform a particularly daring action, such as
swinging on a chandelier or sliding down a drapery, you
also gain panache if your result is high enough (typically
the very hard DC for your level, but the GM can choose a
different threshold).
While you have panache, you gain a +5-foot status bonus
to your Speeds and gain a +1 circumstance bonus to checks
to Tumble Through or to take any actions that give you
panache due to your style. The precise strike class feature
(page 85) also causes you to deal extra precision damage
while you have panache. Powerful finisher actions, including
Confident Finisher (page 85), can be used only while you
have panache and cause you to lose your panache.
Normally, you gain and use panache only in combat
encounters; when an encounter ends, you lose panache.
SWASHBUCKLER’S STYLE
As a swashbuckler, you have your own distinctive style that
enables you to gracefully handle everyday events and life-
or-death situations alike. Choose a swashbuckler’s style.
This style determines the additional actions you use to gain
panache and makes you trained in the skill related to that
action. The styles presented in this book are as follows.
Battledancer
To you, a fight is a kind of performance art, and you
command your foes’ attention with mesmerizing motions.
You are trained in Performance and gain the Fascinating
Performance skill feat (Core Rulebook 261). You gain
panache during an encounter when the result of your
Performance check to Perform exceeds the Will DC of an
observing foe, even if the foe isn’t fascinated.
Braggart
You boast, taunt, and psychologically needle your foes.
You are trained in Intimidation. You gain panache
during an encounter whenever you successfully
Demoralize a foe.
Fencer
You move carefully, feinting and creating false openings to
lead your foes into inopportune attacks. You are trained
in Deception. You gain panache during an encounter
whenever you successfully Feint or Create a Diversion
against a foe.
gymnast
You reposition, maneuver, and bewilder your foes
TABLE 2–5: SWASHBUCKLER ADVANCEMENT
Your
Level Class Features
1
Ancestry and background, initial proficiencies,


panache, swashbuckler’s style, precise strike (2d6),

confident finisher, swashbuckler feat
2
Skill feat, swashbuckler feat
3
General feat, great fortitude, opportune riposte, skill

increase, stylish trick, vivacious speed +10 feet
4
Skill feat, swashbuckler feat
5
Ability boosts, ancestry feat, precise strike (3d6),

skill increase, weapon expertise
6
Skill feat, swashbuckler feat
7
Evasion, general feat, skill increase, stylish trick,


vivacious speed +15 feet, weapon specialization
8
Skill feat, swashbuckler feat
9
Ancestry feat, exemplary finisher, precise strike


(4d6), skill increase, swashbuckler expertise
10
Ability boosts, skill feat, swashbuckler feat
11
Continuous flair, general feat, skill increase, vigilant

senses, vivacious speed +20 feet
12
Skill feat, swashbuckler feat
13
Ancestry feat, improved evasion, light armor


expertise, precise strike (5d6), skill increase,


weapon mastery
14
Skill feat, swashbuckler feat
15
Ability boosts, general feat, greater weapon


specialization, keen flair, skill increase, stylish trick,

vivacious speed +25 feet
16
Skill feat, swashbuckler feat
17
Ancestry feat, precise strike (6d6), resolve, skill


increase
18
Skill feat, swashbuckler feat
19
Eternal confidence, general feat, light armor


mastery, skill increase, vivacious speed +30 feet
20
Ability boosts, skill feat, swashbuckler feat
Advanced Player's Guide
84
84
