creatures outside the storm concealed from those inside the
storm. Any creature that ends its turn in the storm takes 4
cold damage. If you Cast this Spell outdoors, you can create
two non-overlapping clouds instead of one.
Heightened (+2) The initial bludgeoning damage and cold
damage increase by 1d8 each, and the cold damage
creatures take at the end of their turns increases by 2.
ILL OMEN
SPELL 1
CURSE
DIVINATION
MISFORTUNE
Traditions occult
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal
Range 30 feet; Targets 1 creature
Duration 1 round
The target is struck with misfortune, which throws it off
balance. The target must attempt a Will save.
Success The target is unaffected.
Failure The first time during the duration that the target
attempts an attack roll or skill check, it must roll twice and
use the worse result.
Critical Failure Every time during the duration that the target
attempts an attack roll or skill check, it must roll twice and
use the worse result.
IMPALING SPIKE
SPELL 5
CONJURATION
Traditions arcane, primal
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal
Range 30 feet; Targets 1 creature
Saving Throw Reflex; Duration 1 minute
You conjure a spike that thrusts up from the earth beneath
a target creature, potentially impaling it. The spike is made
of cold iron and deals 8d6 piercing damage. The target must
attempt a Reflex save.
Critical Success The target dodges the spike and is unaffected.
Success The target is struck by the spike and takes half damage.
Failure The target is impaled through a leg or another
non-vital body part. The creature takes full damage and,
if it’s standing on solid ground, becomes immobilized. It
can attempt to Escape (the DC is your spell DC). While it
remains impaled, it takes damage from any weakness to
cold iron it has at the end of each of its turns.
Critical Failure As failure, but the creature is impaled through
a vital organ or its center of mass, taking double damage,
and it is flat-footed as long as it’s impaled.
Heightened (+1) The damage increases by 2d6.
IMPRINT MESSAGE
SPELL 1
DIVINATION
Traditions occult
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal
Range touch; Targets 1 object
You project psychic vibrations onto the target object,
imprinting it with a short message or emotional theme of your
design. This imprinted sensation is revealed to a creature who
casts object reading (page 222) on the target object, replacing
any emotional events the item was present for. If the object is
in the area of a retrocognition spell, the imprinted messages
appear as major events in the timeline, but they don’t interfere
with any other visions.
If the object is targeted with read aura of a higher spell
level than imprint message, the caster learns that the object
has been magically modified. When you Cast this Spell, any
prior vibrations placed on an object by previous castings of
imprint message fade.
INDESTRUCTIBILITY
SPELL 10
ABJURATION
Traditions arcane, divine, occult, primal
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal
Duration until the start of your next turn
You can’t be affected by anything unless you choose to be.
For the duration of the spell, you are immune to any effect
or damage that would harm you, excluding effects caused by
artifacts, deific power, and similarly powerful sources. You can
still be affected by anything you’re willing to have affect you.
INVISIBLE ITEM
SPELL 1
ILLUSION
Traditions arcane, occult
Cast [two-actions] material, somatic
Range touch; Targets 1 object
Duration 1 hour
You make the object invisible. This makes it undetected to
all creatures, though the creatures can attempt to find the
target, making it hidden to them instead if they succeed. If
the item is used as part of a hostile action, the spell ends after
that hostile action is completed. Making a weapon invisible
typically doesn’t give any advantage to the attack, except
that an invisible thrown weapon or piece of ammunition can
be used for an attack without necessarily giving information
about the attacker’s hiding place unless the weapon returns
to the attacker.
Heightened (3rd) The duration is until the next time you make
your daily preparations.
Heightened (7th) The duration is unlimited.
LIGHTNING STORM
SPELL 5
ELECTRICITY
EVOCATION
Traditions primal
Cast [three-actions] material, somatic, verbal
Range 120 feet; Area 5-foot burst
Saving Throw basic Reflex; Duration sustained up to 1 minute
You create a black, rumbling storm cloud and call down
one lightning bolt. The bolt is a vertical line from the storm
cloud to the ground below, dealing 4d12 electricity damage
to creatures in the spell’s area (basic Reflex save). The first
time you Sustain the Spell each round, you can call another
lightning bolt within the area. If you Cast this Spell outdoors,
you can create two non-overlapping clouds instead of one,
though you can still call down only one bolt per turn.
Heightened (+1) The damage of each bolt increases by 1d12.
Spells
5
221
221
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Archetypes
Feats
Spells
items
glossary
& index
