that affects targeted creatures or an area, you can turn that
spell’s effect back on its caster. When reflected, the spell
affects only the original caster, even if it’s an area spell or it
would normally affect more than one creature. The original
caster can attempt a save and use other defenses against the
reflected spell as normal.
RITES OF TRANSFIGURATION
FEAT 14
WITCH
You can adapt your patron’s power to transform other
creatures into forms more befitting their behavior or your
whims. Your familiar learns baleful polymorph, even if baleful
polymorph isn’t on your tradition’s spell list. By spending 10
minutes in communion with your familiar, you can replace
one spell of 6th level or higher you’ve prepared in one of
your witch spell slots with a baleful polymorph spell of the
same level.
16TH LEVEL
EFFORTLESS CONCENTRATION [free-action]
FEAT 16
WITCH
Trigger Your turn begins.
You maintain your active spells with hardly a thought. You
immediately gain the effects of a Sustain a Spell action, allowing
you to extend the duration of one of your active witch spells.
SIPHON POWER [free-action]
FEAT 16
WITCH
Frequency once per day
Requirements You haven’t acted yet on your turn.
You draw upon the reservoir of your patron’s magic that
resides within your familiar. During your turn, you can cast
one spell your familiar knows that was granted by your
patron’s theme or lessons without spending a spell slot to do
so (or even having it prepared). The spell must be at least 1
level lower than the highest-level spell you can cast.
Special This feat has the trait corresponding to the tradition
of spells you cast (arcane, divine, occult, or primal).
18TH LEVEL
HEX WELLSPRING
FEAT 18
WITCH
Prerequisites Hex Focus
Focus flows from your patron each time you commune with
your familiar. You can recover 3 Focus Points when you
Refocus instead of 1 if you have spent at least 3 Focus Points
since the last time you Refocused.
SPLIT HEX [one-action]
FEAT 18
CONCENTRATE
METAMAGIC
WITCH
You siphon some of the power from an offensive hex you
cast to direct it at a second target as well. If the next action
you use is to Cast a Spell to cast a harmful hex with a single
target, reduce its level by 2 (making it 2 levels lower than the
maximum spell level you can cast). If you do, you can select a
second target for that hex to affect.
20TH LEVEL
HEX MASTER
FEAT 20
WITCH
You embody the link to your patron so completely that you
can cast your hexes in rapid succession. You are no longer
limited to casting only a single hex each turn. In addition,
when you cast cackle to sustain a hex, you gain the effects of
Sustain a Spell for all your active hexes that have a duration
of sustained.
PATRON’S TRUTH
FEAT 20
WITCH
Prerequisites patron’s gift
You have mastered the greatest secrets of your patron’s magic
and learned a fundamental truth about your patron, even if
their identity still remains a mystery. You gain an additional
10th-level spell slot.
WITCH’S HUT
FEAT 20
WITCH
Your home is an animated structure that obeys your
commands. By performing a rite that takes 1 day, you create
an animated object from a hut, small house, covered wagon,
tent, or similar construction of up to Huge size.
The hut uses your AC, saving throw modifiers, and
Perception modifier and has 150 HP and Hardness 10. It has
the construct armor ability, meaning once it’s reduced to less
than half its Hit Points, or immediately upon being damaged
by a critical hit, its AC is reduced by 4 until it is repaired.
The hut can’t attack or attempt skill checks. You can give
the hut a command as a single action, which has the auditory
and concentrate traits; after 1 round of reconfiguring itself,
the hut then follows that command until you give it a
different command.
• Guard The hut watches for trespassers within 120 feet
using your Perception modifier and screams if it spots
any.
• Lock Each entrance to the hut is sealed with a lock spell.
• Move The hut gains a Speed of 60 feet, growing giant
bird or bone legs, if necessary, and follows an extremely
basic movement command you give it, such as “follow
me” or “move that direction.” While perfectly suitable for
overland travel, the hut’s broad movements and 1-round
delay on response time are too imprecise to predictably
direct in a combat encounter or other situation where
seconds and precise locations count.
• Hide The hut appears to be a normal, mundane object of
its type. This is a 10th-level illusion effect.
You can have only one hut at a time. If you animate a new
hut, your previous hut immediately reverts to its original,
mundane form. If you die, the hut continues following the last
order you gave it indefinitely.
Classes
2
105
105
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Archetypes
Feats
Spells
items
glossary
& index
