When you notice a creature with your Spiritual Sense,
you also learn its location, making it hidden to you if it had
been undetected.
STEADY SPELLCASTING
FEAT 6
ORACLE
Confident in your technique, you don’t easily lose your
concentration when you Cast a Spell. If another creature’s
reaction would disrupt your spellcasting action, attempt a DC
15 flat check. If you succeed, your action isn’t disrupted.
8TH LEVEL
DEBILITATING DICHOTOMY
FEAT 8
ORACLE
You can give others a glimpse of the impossible conflicts and
unchecked power that courses through your body. You learn
the debilitating dichotomy revelation spell (page 231). Increase
the number of Focus Points in your focus pool by 1.
READ DISASTER
FEAT 8
DIVINATION
EXPLORATION
ORACLE
PREDICTION
You spend 10 minutes and open yourself to the divine
mysteries of the world, peering into the most sinister portents
of the future. You gain the effects of augury, except you
learn only about the dangers ahead; any results of “weal” are
instead “nothing,” and results of “weal and woe” are instead
“woe.” If you are legendary in Religion, you take only 1 minute
to Read Disaster.
10TH LEVEL
ORACULAR WARNING [free-action]
FEAT 10
DIVINATION
DIVINE
ORACLE
Trigger You are about to roll initiative.
You have a flash of insight about impending danger related
to one ally, and you can shout or gesture to warn that ally of
the threat a moment before it materializes. One ally of your
choice can roll twice for initiative and use the better result;
this is a fortune effect. If you are legendary in Religion, you
receive two visions and can warn two allies, granting them
both this benefit.
You are momentarily thrown off by the divine insight,
however, and you must roll twice for your initiative roll
and use the worse result. This is a misfortune effect.
The two effects are tied together; if you would avoid the
misfortune effect for any reason, or if any of your allies
would negate their fortune effect, your Oracular Warning
does nothing. Depending on whether you use gestures
or call out, this action gains either the visual or auditory
trait, respectively.
QUICKENED CASTING [free-action]
FEAT 10
CONCENTRATE
METAMAGIC
ORACLE
Frequency once per day
If your next action is to cast an oracle cantrip or an oracle spell
that is at least 2 levels lower than the highest-level oracle
spell you can cast, reduce the number of actions to cast it by
1 (minimum 1 action).
SURGING MIGHT [one-action]
FEAT 10
MANIPULATE
METAMAGIC
ORACLE
With a complex gesture, you focus the divine power of your
spell to overcome enemies’ resistances. If the next action
you use is to Cast a Spell, the spell ignores an amount of
the target’s resistance equal to your level against all the
following types of damage: chaotic, evil, good, lawful,
negative, and positive. This applies to all damage the spell
deals, including persistent damage and damage caused by
an ongoing effect of the spell, such as the positive energy
within a field of life. This doesn’t cause the spell to ignore
immunities, only resistances.
12TH LEVEL
DOMAIN FLUENCY
FEAT 12
ORACLE
Prerequisites initial domain spell
You command a deep understanding of the divine domains
related to your mystery. Choose one of the domains associated
with your mystery for which you have an initial domain spell.
You gain an advanced domain spell from that domain, which
you cast as a revelation spell, causing it to gain the cursebound
trait. Increase the number of Focus Points in your focus pool
by 1.
GREATER REVELATION
FEAT 12
ORACLE
Prerequisites initial revelation spell
You learn a greater revelation spell associated with your
mystery. Increase the number of Focus Points in your focus
pool by 1.
MAGIC SENSE
FEAT 12
DETECTION
DIVINATION
DIVINE
ORACLE
You have a literal sixth sense for ambient magic in your
vicinity. You can sense the presence of magic auras as though
you were always using a 1st-level detect magic spell. This
detects magic in your field of vision only. When you Seek, you
gain the benefits of a 3rd-level detect magic spell on things
you see (in addition to the normal benefits of Seeking). You
can turn this sense off and on with a free action at the start or
the end of your turn.
14TH LEVEL
FORESTALL CURSE [one-action]
FEAT 14
CONCENTRATE
METAMAGIC
ORACLE
Frequency once per day
You’ve learned to forestall the effects of your curse somewhat.
If the next action you use is to cast a revelation spell, the
severity of your curse doesn’t increase.
Advanced Player's Guide
80
80
