Tough: Your familiar’s maximum Hit Points increase by
2 per level.
Valet: You can command your familiar to deliver you
items more efficiently. Your familiar doesn’t use its 2 actions
immediately upon your command. Instead, up to twice
before the end of your turn, you can have your familiar
Interact to retrieve an item of light or negligible Bulk you
are wearing and place it into one of your free hands. The
familiar can’t use this ability to retrieve stowed items. If the
familiar has a different number of actions, it can retrieve
one item for each action it has when commanded this way.
MASTER ABILITIES
Innate Surge: Once per day, you can draw upon your
familiar’s innate magic to replenish your own. You can cast
one innate spell gained from an ancestry feat that you have
already cast today. You must still Cast the Spell and meet
the spell’s other requirements.
Share Senses: Once every 10 minutes, you can use a single
action with the concentrate trait to project your senses into
your familiar. When you do, you lose all sensory information
from your own body, but can sense through your familiar’s
body for up to 1 minute. You can Dismiss this effect.
Specific Familiars
Most familiars are Tiny animals, though a few are unusual,
such as a leaf druid’s leshy familiar. Some familiars,
however, are more powerful creatures with unique abilities.
Any character can gain a specific familiar so long as they
already have a familiar with at least the required number
of abilities listed in the specific familiar’s stat block. Such
a familiar usually replaces an existing familiar, though in
some circumstances (such as for a witch) the familiar may
evolve or reveal its true form. In any case, this transition
from a normal familiar to a specific familiar requires no
downtime and has no cost. Once you’ve selected a specific
familiar, you can’t change it without losing your familiar—
this uses the same rules as if your familiar had died.
A specific familiar has several traits and abilities, as
listed in their stat block. The Granted Abilities entry lists
normal familiar and master abilities that familiar has. The
familiar also gains unique abilities listed below the Granted
Abilities entry. Much like a familiar that naturally has a
familiar ability (such as an owl with a fly Speed), you can
never swap out any of these granted or unique abilities. If
your familiar gains more abilities than are necessary for
that specific familiar, you can use the remaining abilities to
select familiar and master abilities as normal.
Statistics and abilities not listed in a specific familiar’s stat
block (such as modifiers, AC, Hit Points, and so forth) use
the normal familiar rules (Core Rulebook 217). These stat
blocks otherwise use the format from the Bestiary.
FAERIE DRAGON
These tiny, mischievous dragons make natural allies for
benevolent or capricious characters.
FAERIE DRAGON
DRAGON
Required Number of Abilities 6
Granted Abilities amphibious, darkvision, flier, manual dexterity,
speech, touch telepathy (page 146)
Breath Weapon [two-actions] (arcane, evocation, poison) Frequency
once per hour; Effect The faerie dragon breathes euphoric
gas in a 10-foot cone. Each creature in the area must
attempt a Fortitude save against your class DC or spell
DC, whichever is higher. A creature that fails its save is
stupefied 2 and slowed 1 for 1d4 rounds; on a critical failure,
the duration is 1 minute.
IMP
Imp familiars pretend to be subservient in order to trick
their masters into losing their souls to Hell.
IMP
LE
DEVIL
FIEND
Alignment An imp must be lawful evil.
Required Number of Abilities 8
Granted Abilities darkvision, flier, manual dexterity, resistance
(fire and poison, page 146), skilled (Deception, page 146),
speech, touch telepathy (page 146)
Imp Invisibility Once per hour, your imp familiar can cast 2nd-
level invisibility on itself as a divine innate spell.
Infernal Temptation [one-action] (concentrate, divine, enchantment,
evil, fortune) Frequency once per day; Effect The imp offers
a non-fiend within 15 feet a bargain, granting a boon of good
luck if the creature accepts. The boon lasts for 1 hour once
accepted. If the creature dies while the boon is in place,
its soul travels to Hell, where it is bound for eternity and
unable to be raised or resurrected except by wish or similar
magic. Once during the hour, the creature can roll an attack
roll or saving throw twice and use the higher result.
SPELLSLIME
These friendly, colorful oozes congeal from the essences
left over from casting spells. They are extremely loyal to
their masters. You can select a spellslime familiar only if
you can cast spells using spell slots.
SPELLSLIME
OOZE
Required Number of Abilities 4
Granted Abilities climber, darkvision, tough (see above)
Magic Scent Your spellslime familiar gains an imprecise sense
with a range of 30 feet that enables it to smell magic of the
same tradition as your own.
Ooze Defense Your spellslime familiar is easy to hit, but it
lacks weak points. It is immune to critical hits and precision
damage, but its AC is only 10 + your level (instead of an AC
equal to yours).
Slime Rejuvenation Your spellslime familiar gains the focused
rejuvenation ability (page 146), but it recovers 2 Hit Points
per level when you Refocus instead of 1.
Classes
2
147
147
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Archetypes
Feats
Spells
items
glossary
& index
