You open your mind to the metaphysical, enabling you to sense
nearby spirits. Even if you aren’t Searching, you get a check to
find haunts and spirits in the area. You gain a +1 status bonus
to the following checks regarding haunts or spirits: Perception
checks to Seek, attempts to Recall Knowledge, skill checks to
determine the reason for their existence, and skill checks to
disable a haunt. You also gain a +1 status bonus to AC and
saving throws against haunts and spirits.
Heightened (6th) The spell’s duration lasts until the next time
you make your daily preparations.
STRANGE GEOMETRY
SPELL 5
ILLUSION
Traditions occult
Cast [three-actions] material, somatic, verbal
Range 60 feet; Area 4 cubes, each 10 feet on a side
Saving Throw Will; Duration 1 minute
You cause the areas to appear to swell, bend, and break,
twisting together in a bizarre spatial geometry. The cubes of
the spell’s area can’t be adjacent to one another. A creature
must attempt a Will save if it’s in one of the cubes when you
Cast the Spell, or if it later enters one of the areas, with the
following effects. A creature interacting with the illusion can
also attempt a Will save to disbelieve the illusion, as normal.
Success The creature disbelieves the illusion.
Failure All terrain in the cubes is difficult terrain for the creature,
including the air if the creature is flying, walls if it’s climbing,
and so on. When the creature would exit one of the cubes,
it exits from one randomly determined by the GM. This is a
teleportation effect. It can exit from any edge of that cube it
chooses. When selecting a random cube, the GM excludes
any that don’t match the creature’s terrain; for instance, if
the creature were exiting along the ground, the GM would
exclude any cube that didn’t have an exit on the ground.
SUDDEN BLIGHT
SPELL 2
NECROMANCY
NEGATIVE
Traditions divine, primal
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal
Range 120 feet; Area 20-foot burst
Saving Throw basic Fortitude
You accelerate the processes of decay in the area. Each living
creature in the area takes 2d10 negative damage (basic
Fortitude save). A creature afflicted by a disease takes a –2
circumstance penalty to this save.
You can also direct the blight to rot all Small and Tiny
non-creature plants in the area, eliminating non-magical
undergrowth and any resulting difficult terrain, cover, and
concealment. Sudden blight attempts to counteract any
magical effect on the plants before withering them.
Heightened (+1) The damage increases by 1d10.
SUMMON INSTRUMENT
CANTRIP 1
CANTRIP
CONJURATION
Traditions divine, occult
Cast [three-actions] material, somatic, verbal
Duration 1 hour
You materialize a handheld musical instrument in your grasp.
The instrument is typical for its type, but it plays only for
you. The instrument vanishes when the spell ends. If you cast
summon instrument again, any instrument you previously
summoned disappears.
Heightened (5th) The instrument is instead a virtuoso
handheld instrument.
THOUGHTFUL GIFT
SPELL 1
CONJURATION
TELEPORTATION
Traditions arcane, divine, occult
Cast [one-action] somatic
Range 120 feet; Targets 1 willing creature
You teleport one object of light or negligible Bulk held in your
hand to the target. The object appears instantly in the target’s
hand, if they have a free hand, or at their feet if they don’t. The
target knows what object you are attempting to send them.
If the target is unconscious or refuses to accept your gift, or
if the spell would teleport a creature (even if the creature is
inside an extradimensional container), the spell fails.
Heightened (3rd) The spell’s range increases to 500 feet.
Heightened (5th) As 3rd level, and the object’s maximum Bulk
increases to 1. You can Cast the Spell with 3 actions instead
of 1; doing so increases the range to 1 mile and you don’t
need line of sight to the target, but you must be extremely
familiar with the target.
THREEFOLD ASPECT
SPELL 3
POLYMORPH
TRANSMUTATION
Traditions occult, primal
Cast 1 minute
Duration until the next time you make your daily preparations
This spell allows you to change between three versions of
yourself of different ages: a maiden (young adult), a mother
(adult), or a matriarch (elderly). Choose one when you Cast
the Spell. While the spell lasts, you can change the age to
any of the three or to your natural age with a single action,
which has the concentrate trait. Your form always looks like
you regardless of the age, and creatures who know you still
recognize you and can tell your age is different.
Threefold aspect alters your physical appearance and
personality to present an authentic version of yourself at
various ages. This grants you a +4 status bonus to Deception
checks to pass as the chosen age, and you can add your
level as a proficiency bonus to these checks even if you’re
untrained. Furthermore, unless a creature specifically uses a
Seek action or otherwise carefully examines you, it doesn’t get
a chance to notice that you aren’t at your true age. You can
Dismiss this spell.
TRANSMUTE ROCK AND MUD
SPELL 5
EARTH
TRANSMUTATION
Traditions arcane, primal
Cast [three-actions] material, somatic, verbal
Range 60 feet; Area 2 adjacent 10-foot cubes
Advanced Player's Guide
226
226
