that same spell. You lose your spell slot as if you had cast
the triggering spell. You then attempt to counteract the
triggering spell.
Special This feat has the trait corresponding to the tradition
of spells you cast (arcane, divine, primal, or occult).
REACH SPELL [one-action]
FEAT 1
CONCENTRATE
METAMAGIC
WITCH
You can extend the range of your spells. If the next action you
use is to Cast a Spell that has a range, increase that spell’s
range by 30 feet. As is standard for increasing spell ranges, if
the spell normally has a range of touch, you extend its range
to 30 feet.
WIDEN SPELL [one-action]
FEAT 1
CONCENTRATE
METAMAGIC
WITCH
You manipulate the energy of your spell, causing it to affect a
wider area. If the next action you use is to Cast a Spell that has
an area of a burst, cone, or line and doesn’t have a duration,
increase the area of that spell. Add 5 feet to the radius of a
burst that normally has a radius of at least 10 feet (a burst
with a smaller radius isn’t affected). Add 5 feet to the length
of a cone or line that is normally 15 feet long or smaller, and
add 10 feet to the length of a larger cone or line.
WORTWITCH
FEAT 1
WITCH
You have a particular affinity for leafy plants. Your patron
grants you a leshy familiar. If you already had a familiar,
this leshy replaces your previous familiar, as if your previous
familiar had been slain. In addition, you gain the ability to
see through leaves, vines, and other foliage. You don’t take
circumstance penalties to ranged spell attacks or Perception
checks caused by foliage, and your targeted attacks don’t
require a flat check to succeed against a target concealed only
by such vegetation.
2ND LEVEL
BASIC LESSON
FEAT 2
WITCH
Your patron grants you a special lesson, revealing a hidden
facet of its nature. Choose a basic lesson from the list on page
100. You gain its associated hex, and your familiar learns the
associated spell. Increase the number of Focus Points in your
focus pool by 1.
CANTRIP EXPANSION
FEAT 2
WITCH
Your patron recognizes your need for flexibility and versatility,
and grants you the power to prepare a wider range of simple
spells. You can prepare two additional cantrips each day.
CONCEAL SPELL [one-action]
FEAT 2
CONCENTRATE
MANIPULATE
METAMAGIC
WITCH
You can hide your magical gestures and incantations within
KEY TERMS
You’ll see these key terms in many witch class features.
Hex: A hex is a short-term effect generated on the fly
from your patron’s magic, requiring your familiar to draw
from your patron. As such, you can cast only one spell with
the hex trait each turn; attempts to cast a second hex spell
on the same turn fail and the spellcasting actions are lost.
Metamagic: Actions with the metamagic trait tweak
the properties of your spells. These actions usually come
from metamagic feats. You must use a metamagic action
directly before Casting the Spell you want to alter. If you
use any action (including free actions and reactions) other
than Cast a Spell directly after, you waste the benefits of
the metamagic action. Any additional effects added by a
metamagic action are part of the spell’s effect, not of the
metamagic action itself.
IN SERVICE TO THE UNKNOWN
A witch’s patron is a mysterious entity, rarely known or
understood even by the witch in that patron’s service.
The nature of the relationship between a witch and their
patron can serve as details for character development and
storytelling. When playing a witch, work with your GM to
determine the nature of your patron and how much of that
nature you know, both as a player and a character. There are
countless ways to handle a witch’s patron; the following are
just a few approaches you might take.
For a character who truly doesn’t know their patron,
you might have your GM choose your patron’s theme
and which lessons your witch learns, as the patron
determines what powers to bestow upon you as their
emissary—and these can provide clues to your patron’s
nature. You could instead give your GM a list of lessons
you’d like for your character and let the GM choose
between them, representing a negotiation between your
witch and the patron. In this case, you might choose your
patron’s theme to indicate which aspect of the patron
relates to your character, or let your GM choose the
theme. If you want to be fully in control of your abilities,
you can choose the lessons you most prefer and let the
GM tailor the identity of your patron accordingly.
Another approach is for you to craft the details of your
witch’s patron yourself. You can then provide those details
to the GM to incorporate into a larger narrative or to provide
additional flavor and roleplaying context for your character.
Your character might still remain ignorant of that patron’s
identity, even if you as a player know it. Perhaps your
character knows the nature of their patron but is cursed to
never reveal it to others. You might have willingly sworn
a pact to your patron but fear the repercussions should
others learn of that pact. Or perhaps you and your patron
are entirely forthcoming about your relationship.
Every witch is different, and no story is wrong so long
as it’s fun and engaging for everyone involved!
Classes
2
101
101
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Archetypes
Feats
Spells
items
glossary
& index
