about the topic in question must exceed your Deception DC
or the normal DC to Gather Information about your inquiries,
whichever is higher, or else they don’t learn of your efforts.
DISTRACTING PERFORMANCE
FEAT 2
GENERAL
SKILL
Prerequisites expert in Performance
Your performances are especially distracting, allowing your
allies to Sneak away with ease. When you Aid an ally who is
trying to Create a Diversion, instead of the usual effects of
Aid, you can roll a Performance check and use that result to
determine the outcome of the diversion, instead of the ally
rolling a Deception check.
DISTURBING KNOWLEDGE [two-actions]
FEAT 7
EMOTION
FEAR
GENERAL
MENTAL
SKILL
Prerequisites master in Occultism
You utter a litany of dreadful names, prophecies, and descriptions
of realms beyond mortal comprehension, drawn from your
study of forbidden tomes and scrolls. Even those who don’t
understand your language are unsettled by these dire secrets.
Attempt an Occultism check and compare the result to the Will
DC of an enemy within 30 feet, or to the Will DCs of any number
of enemies within 30 feet if you are legendary in Occultism.
Those creatures are temporarily immune for 24 hours.
Critical Success The target becomes confused for 1 round and
frightened 1.
Success The target becomes frightened 1.
Failure The target is unaffected.
Critical Failure You get overly caught up in your own words
and become frightened 1.
DOUBLESPEAK
FEAT 7
GENERAL
SKILL
Prerequisites master at Deception
You are skilled at saying one thing while meaning something
different. You disguise your true meaning behind other words
and phrases, relying on subtle emphasis and shared experience
to convey meaning that only your allies understand. Any
allies who have traveled alongside you for at least 1 full week
automatically discern your meaning. Other observers must
succeed at a Perception check against your Deception DC
to realize you are passing a secret message, and they must
critically succeed to understand the message itself.
EXHORT THE FAITHFUL
FEAT 2
GENERAL
SKILL
Prerequisites expert in Religion, follower of a specific religion
Your knowledge of the tenets of your faith gives you insight
into the best ways to get others of your faith to help you
or to follow your directions. When you Request something
of or Coerce members of your own faith, you can attempt a
Religion check instead of Diplomacy or Intimidation, and you
gain a +2 circumstance bonus to the check. On a critically
Feats
4
205
205
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Archetypes
Feats
Spells
items
glossary
& Index
