If the enemy continues to attack you each turn, the duration
continues to extend.
8TH LEVEL
GREATER CRUELTY
FEAT 8
UNCOMMON
CHAMPION
Prerequisites Cruelty
The extent of the corruption within you does more than
simply sap your foes’ strength, it devastates their minds and
reflexes. When you use Cruelty, choose whether you want to
make the creature enfeebled as normal, to make it clumsy 1
on a failed save (clumsy 2 on a critical failure), or to make it
stupefied 1 on a failed save (stupefied 2 on a critical failure).
SACRIFICE ARMOR [reaction]
FEAT 8
CHAMPION
Trigger You are hit by a Strike that deals physical damage.
With divine awareness, you twist your body to lessen the
impact of an attack. Reduce the damage you take by an
amount equal to twice your armor’s level. Your armor becomes
broken, reducing its Hit Points to its Broken Threshold. If
your armor was already damaged, it is destroyed instead.
SENSE GOOD
FEAT 8
UNCOMMON
CHAMPION
Prerequisites tenets of evil
The presence of goodness sickens you with its saccharine
self-righteousness. When in the presence of an aura of good
that is powerful or overwhelming (Core Rulebook 328), you
detect the aura, though you might not do so instantly, and
you can’t pinpoint the location. This acts as a vague sense,
similar to humans’ sense of smell. A good creature using a
disguise or otherwise trying to hide its presence attempts a
Deception check against your Perception DC to hide its aura
from you. If the creature succeeds at its Deception check, it
is then temporarily immune to your Sense Good for 1 day.
10TH LEVEL
ELUCIDATING MERCY
FEAT 10
CHAMPION
Prerequisites Mercy
Your mercy grants clarity to those around you just when they
need it most. When you use Mercy, you can instead attempt
a counteract check to remove the confused or stupefied
conditions, using the source of that condition to determine
the counteract level and DC. If the condition was caused
by an ongoing effect and you don’t remove that effect, the
condition returns at the end of your next turn.
LITANY OF SELF-INTEREST
FEAT 10
UNCOMMON
CHAMPION
Prerequisites devotion spells, tenets of evil
You compel a creature to act toward its own ends rather
than consider others. You can cast the litany of self-interest
devotion spell (page 229). Increase the number of Focus
Points in your focus pool by 1.
RESILIENT TOUCH
FEAT 10
CHAMPION
Prerequisites devotion spell (lay on hands)
Your healing energies create an aura of protection that
defends your allies against more than just blades and arrows.
An ally that recovers Hit Points from your lay on hands gains
a +1 status bonus to their saving throws until the end of their
next turn.
12TH LEVEL
AMPLIFYING TOUCH
FEAT 12
CHAMPION
Prerequisites devotion spell (lay on hands)
Your healing energies empower attacks. An ally that recovers
Hit Points from your lay on hands gains a +1 status bonus to
their attack rolls and deals 1 additional good damage on all
their Strikes until the end of their next turn.
ENFORCE OATH [one-action]
FEAT 12
CHAMPION
Frequency once per hour
Prerequisites You’ve sworn to an oath against a specific type
of creature.
You call on your oath to embolden you in combat. When
you Enforce your Oath, select one creature you can see that
you’ve sworn to defeat as part of your oath. You gain a +1
status bonus to AC and saves against attacks and effects
by the chosen creature. You also gain a +1 status bonus
to attack rolls against the chosen creature. However, your
dedication to Enforcing your Oath draws your focus away
from all other foes. While you are Enforcing your Oath, you
take a –1 status penalty to AC, attack rolls, and saves against
all other creatures until you stop Enforcing your Oath.
You stop Enforcing your Oath once the chosen creature is
reduced to 0 Hit Points or offers a legitimate surrender to you
or your allies. You immediately stop Enforcing your Oath if
you are unconscious or if the chosen creature goes unnoticed
by you for more than 1 minute. You can also stop Enforcing
your Oath at any time during your turn as a free action.
GRUESOME STRIKE [one-action]
FEAT 12
UNCOMMON
CHAMPION
Prerequisites tenets of evil, champion’s reaction that grants
extra damage with your Strikes
Requirements Your Strikes currently deal extra damage from
your champion’s reaction.
Make a Strike against the creature that triggered your
champion’s reaction. If you hit, the target takes double
the extra damage from your reaction and must succeed
at a Fortitude save against your class DC or be drained 1.
Regardless of the result, the creature is temporarily immune
to your Gruesome Strike for 24 hours.
Advanced Player's Guide
120
120
