Effect You reveal the medusa’s face, focusing its gaze on
one creature within 30 feet. The shield casts flesh to stone
with a range of 30 feet.
Type medusa’s scream; Level 13; Price 3,000 gp
Type greater medusa’s scream; Level 16; Price 9,000 gp
A greater medusa’s scream (Hardness 15, HP 60, BT 30) has a
frequency of once per hour for its activation instead of once
per day, and the DC is 35.
Craft Requirements The initial raw materials must include the
head of a medusa.
PREDICTABLE SILVER PIECE
ITEM 1
DIVINATION
MAGICAL
Price 3 gp
Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk —
This seemingly unremarkable, weathered silver
coin bears the bust of an unnamed monarch on
the face and a majestic bird on the tail. You can
toss the coin without activating it, in which case it
follows the normal laws of probability.
Activate [one-action] Interact; Effect You rub your thumb on one side
of the coin with the intent of slightly tweaking the
strands of fate, then flip the coin into the air in
a coin toss. No matter how the toss is resolved—
letting the coin fall to the ground, slapping it down
on the back of your hand, or catching it on your open
palm—it always lands with the side you rubbed face up.
READY
RUNE 6+
EVOCATION
MAGICAL
Usage etched onto armor
A ready rune draws component pieces of a suit
of armor toward one another, making it easier
and faster to get into. You can don light armor
with this rune as a 3-action activity or medium or
heavy armor with this rune in 1 minute.
Type ready; Level 6; Price 200 gp
Type greater ready; Level 11; Price 1,200 gp
You can don light armor with a greater ready rune as a single
action, or medium or heavy armor with a greater ready rune as
a 3-action activity.
ROD OF CANCELLATION
ITEM 20
RARE
ABJURATION
MAGICAL
Price 75,000 gp
Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk 1
This powerful magic rod is inimical to
all magic.
Activate [two-actions] Interact; Effect You
touch the rod to a magical effect
or magic item and attempt to
counteract the effect or item.
Regardless of the result, the
rod of cancellation can’t be
activated again for 2d6 hours.
On a success, the effect or item is
deactivated for the same amount of time, and its duration,
if any, continues to expire during that time. If you choose,
you can instead completely drain the rod of cancellation’s
magic on a success in order to completely drain the magic
from the effect or item. If you do, both become completely
non-magical and their magic can’t be recovered, even by
the remake spell.
The rod of cancellation automatically fails to counteract
most artifacts and similarly powerful items, but it reacts
explosively when activated against a sphere of annihilation
without a counteract check (Gamemastery
Guide 113).
ROPE OF CLIMBING
ITEM 3+
MAGICAL
TRANSMUTATION
Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk L
This silk rope measures 50 feet long and is
capable of holding up to 3,000 pounds. If
the rope is ever cut, only the longest remaining
portion retains its magic.
Activate [one-action] Interact; Frequency once per day; Effect You
hold one end of the rope and point to a destination.
The rope animates for 1 minute, moving 10 feet per
round until it reaches the destination or runs out of
length. The rope can move across any non-damaging
horizontal or vertical surface, but it can’t extend upward
without a surface to support it. At any point while the
rope is animated, you can use an Interact action to
wiggle the rope, giving it one of the following
commands: stop in place, fasten securely to
the nearest available object, detach from an
object, or knot or unknot itself.
Type lesser rope of climbing; Level 3; Price 45 gp
Type moderate rope of climbing; Level 5; Price
125 gp
You can activate the moderate rope of climbing once per hour
instead of once per day.
Type greater rope of climbing; Level 7; Price 300 gp
You can activate the greater rope of climbing without any
frequency limit.
SLATES OF DISTANT LETTERS
ITEM 13
DIVINATION
MAGICAL
Price 2,450 gp
Usage held in 2 hands; Bulk L
This matched pair of slates, roughly one handspan wide and
tall, have identical ornate frames.
Slates are crafted in pairs, and each
works with only the other of its pair.
If one slate of a pair is ever broken,
the other shatters into non-magical
shards. The listed price is for a pair
of slates.
Activate [two-actions] Interact; Frequency
once per hour; Effect You use a
piece of chalk to write up to 25
Advanced Player's Guide
262
262
