Superstition Instinct
A deep distrust of magic drives you to forgo and
counter the metaphysical nonsense of spellcasters.
Whether you’re a member of a superstitious family
or culture that distrusts magic, a warrior in constant
battle against wizards and witches, a survivor of a
magical accident that instilled an intense aversion in
your mind and body, or a scion of a bloodline known
for its magic resistance, your rage is inimical to magic.
This makes you an excellent mage hunter but slow
to trust practitioners of magical arts. Your extremely
restrictive anathema grants you powers beyond those
of other instincts.
ANATHEMA
Willingly accepting the effects of magic spells (including
from scrolls, wands, and the like), even from your allies,
is anathema to your instinct. You can still drink potions
and invest and activate most magic items you find,
though items that cast spells are subject to the same
restrictions as all other spells. If an ally insists on using
magic on you despite your unwillingness, and you have
no reason to believe they will stop, continuing to travel
with that ally of your own free will counts as willingly
accepting their spells (as do similar circumstances) and
thus is also anathema to your instinct.
SUPERSTITIOUS RESILIENCE (INSTINCT ABILITY)
While raging, you gain a +2 status bonus to all saves
against magic. Increase your damage from Rage from
2 to 4 against creatures that can cast spells. Once every
10 minutes, when you Rage, you regain Hit Points
equal to the temporary Hit Points you gain from that
Rage action.
SPECIALIZATION ABILITY
7TH
Increase the damage from Rage from 4 to 8 against
creatures that can cast spells. If you have greater raging
specialization, instead increase the damage from Rage
to 12 against creatures with spells and 8 against other
creatures.
RAGING RESISTANCE
9TH
Choose two associated magical traditions: arcane and
occult, arcane and primal, divine and occult, or divine
and primal. The resistance from your raging resistance
class feature applies against all damage you take from
spells cast with these two traditions of magic, regardless
of the type of damage dealt by the spell.
Barbarian Feats
At each level that you gain a barbarian feat, you can
select one of the following feats. You must satisfy any
prerequisites before taking the feat.
1ST LEVEL
ADRENALINE RUSH
FEAT 1
BARBARIAN
RAGE
In the heat of battle, you are capable of amazing feats of
strength. While you are raging, increase your encumbered
and maximum Bulk limits by 2; you also gain a +1 status
bonus to Athletics checks to lift heavy objects, Escape, and
Force Open.
DRACONIC ARROGANCE
FEAT 1
BARBARIAN
RAGE
Prerequisites dragon instinct
Few can sway you from your goals while the fury of combat
fills you. While raging, you gain a +2 status bonus to saving
throws against emotion effects.
2ND LEVEL
BASHING CHARGE [two-actions]
FEAT 2
BARBARIAN
FLOURISH
Prerequisites trained in Athletics
You smash, bust, and charge through solid obstacles without
hesitation. Stride twice. Once during your movement, if
your movement passes through or ends adjacent to a door,
window, fence, wall, or similar obstacle, you can attempt
an Athletics check to Force Open the obstacle with a +1
circumstance bonus to the roll; on a failure, your movement
ends at that obstacle.
4TH LEVEL
BARRELING CHARGE [two-actions]
FEAT 4
BARBARIAN
FLOURISH
Prerequisites trained in Athletics
You rush forward, moving enemies aside to reach your foe.
You Stride, attempting to move through your enemies’ spaces
and make a melee Strike. Roll an Athletics check and compare
the result to the Fortitude DC of each creature whose space
you attempt to move through during your Stride, moving
through its space on a success but ending your movement
before entering its space on a failure. You can use Barreling
Charge to Burrow, Climb, Fly, or Swim instead of Stride, as
long as you have the corresponding movement type.
BARBARIAN
Through the new superstition instinct, a healthy distrust of magic makes
you deadlier and more resilient to spellcasters that dare challenge you.
Advanced Player's Guide
108
108
