While in Ricochet Stance, you can bounce a thrown weapon
off a foe to distract them. You can attempt a Feint against a
creature within the first range increment of a thrown weapon
you are wielding, rather than only creatures within your
melee reach.
14TH LEVEL
STAY DOWN! [reaction]
FEAT 14
ROGUE
Prerequisites master in Athletics
Trigger A prone foe within your reach Stands.
You have ways of keeping your foes down. Attempt an
Athletics check against the triggering foe’s Fortitude DC. On
a success, they don’t stand up and remain prone. On a critical
success, they can’t Stand until their next turn.
16TH LEVEL
SWIFT ELUSION [reaction]
FEAT 16
ROGUE
Prerequisites legendary in Acrobatics
Trigger A foe ends its movement adjacent to you.
Attempt an Acrobatics check against the foe’s Reflex DC. If
you succeed, either Stride to a different space adjacent to the
foe or move the foe to a different space adjacent to you.
RECONSTRUCT THE SCENE
FEAT 16
CONCENTRATE
ROGUE
You spend 1 minute surveying a small location (such as a
single room) to get an impression of events that occurred
there in the last day. This involves moving about the area and
studying footprints, the placement of objects, spilled drinks
or blood, and so forth. You get an indistinct mental impression
of significant events that happened there. This gives you
clues and details of the past, including the overall events and
their time frame, but it’s not a perfect record. This also isn’t
enough to identify who was involved in these events if you
weren’t already aware the person was there. As determined
by the GM, you also pick out various seemingly small details
that could serve as important clues, like a memorable weapon
someone used for a murder or the type of cloak someone wore
when passing through.
STEAL SPELL
FEAT 16
MAGICAL
ROGUE
Prerequisites Legendary Thief, Loaner Spell
When you use Legendary Thief to steal the impossible, you
can steal a prepared spell or spontaneous spell from a foe.
The spell is randomly selected from the highest-level spells
the foe knows that have a target or area, to a maximum
of 8th-level spells; the target loses the appropriate
spell slot as if they had cast it themself. You can Cast
the Spell once within the next 1d4 rounds, after which
the fleeting magic fades; this otherwise works the same as
casting a Loaner Spell.
18TH LEVEL
IMPLAUSIBLE PURCHASE
FEAT 18
ROGUE
Prerequisites Predictive Purchase
Even when impossible, you always have exactly what you need.
You can use Prescient Planner even if you have already used
it after purchasing goods, and you can Interact to draw the
item as a single action instead of a 2-action activity. In addition,
five times per day, you can use Prescient Planner to pull out a
common consumable item up to 6 levels lower than your level.
Classes
2
137
137
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Archetypes
Feats
Spells
items
glossary
& index
