ORC ADVENTURERS
An orc’s drive to overcome challenges
and prove themself spurs many orcs
to become adventurers, though orcs
are more likely to set out on their
own or with other orcs than alongside
adventurers of other ancestries.
Common orc backgrounds include
gladiator, hunter, martial disciple, nomad,
and warrior from the Core Rulebook,
plus bandit, outrider, and refugee from
this book. Orcs thrive in martial classes
like barbarian and fighter.
in the shape of the chosen emblem or a similar image (for example, the axe could be
a bear or other symbol of ferocious strength, while the shield might be a turtle or
another symbol associated with a strong defense) and gain the listed benefit.
• Axe axe or pick
• Shield hammer or shield
• Torch bomb or knife
9TH LEVEL
DEATH’S DRUMS
FEAT 9
ORC
Your life has been spent challenging death itself, and proximity to that implacable
foe only makes your heart beat harder. When you are taking persistent damage or
your wounded value is 1 or greater, you gain a +2 circumstance bonus to Fortitude
saving throws.
UNDYING FEROCITY
FEAT 9
ORC
Prerequisites Orc Ferocity (Core Rulebook 59)
You resist death’s clutches with supernatural vigor. When you use Orc
Ferocity, you gain temporary Hit Points equal to your level.
13TH LEVEL
FEROCIOUS BEASTS
FEAT 13
ORC
Prerequisites Beast Trainer or animal companion, Orc Ferocity
(Core Rulebook 59)
Since ancient times, the mightiest orc beast tamers would draw
out the true fighting spirit of their companion beasts by
feeding the creatures a draft incorporating the orc’s
own blood. Animal companions or bonded animals
you have gain the Orc Ferocity feat, and they gain
a reaction they can use only for Orc Ferocity. If you
have the Undying Ferocity ancestry feat, all animal
companions or bonded animals you have also gain the
benefits of that feat when using the Orc Ferocity reaction.
SPELL DEVOURER
FEAT 13
ORC
Prerequisites Pervasive Superstition (Core Rulebook 59)
You don’t just resist magic; you devour it. Whenever you
succeed at a saving throw against a spell or magical effect, you
gain temporary Hit Points equal to double the spell’s level, or equal
to the level if the magical effect isn’t a spell. These temporary Hit
Points last until the end of your next turn.
17TH LEVEL
RAMPAGING FEROCITY [free-action]
FEAT 17
ORC
Prerequisites Orc Ferocity (Core Rulebook 59)
Trigger You use Orc Ferocity.
You lash out viciously even as you fend off death. Make a single
melee Strike. If this Strike brings a foe to 0 Hit Points, this
activation of Orc Ferocity doesn’t count against its frequency.
Ancestries & Backgrounds
1
1919
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Archetypes
Feats
Spells
items
glossary
& index
