TABLE 2–1: INVESTIGATOR ADVANCEMENT
Your
Level Class Features
1
Ancestry and background, initial proficiencies, on the

case, Devise a Stratagem, methodology, investigator

feat, strategic strike 1d6
2
Investigator feat, skill feat, skill increase
3
General feat, keen recollection, skill increase, skillful

lesson
4
Investigator feat, skill feat, skill increase
5
Ability boosts, ancestry feat, skill increase, skillful

lesson, strategic strike 2d6, weapon expertise
6
Investigator feat, skill feat, skill increase
7
General feat, skill increase, skillful lesson, vigilant

senses, weapon specialization
8
Investigator feat, skill feat, skill increase
9
Ancestry feat, great fortitude, investigator


expertise, skill increase, skillful lesson, strategic


strike 3d6
10
Ability boosts, investigator feat, skill feat, skill


increase
11
Deductive improvisation, general feat, resolve, skill

increase, skillful lesson
12
Investigator feat, skill feat, skill increase
13
Ancestry feat, incredible senses, light armor


expertise, skill increase, skillful lesson, strategic


strike 4d6, weapon mastery
14
Investigator feat, skill feat, skill increase
15
Ability boosts, evasion, general feat, greater


weapon specialization, skill increase, skillful lesson
16
Investigator feat, skill feat, skill increase
17
Ancestry feat, greater resolve, skill increase, skillful

lesson, strategic strike 5d6
18
Investigator feat, skill feat, skill increase
19
General feat, light armor mastery, master detective,

skill increase, skillful lesson
20
Ability boosts, investigator feat, skill feat, skill


increase
Class Features
You gain these abilities as an investigator. Abilities gained
at higher levels list the level at which you gain them next
to the features’ names.
ANCESTRY AND BACKGROUND
In addition to what you get from your class at 1st level,
you have the benefits of your selected ancestry and
background.
INITIAL PROFICIENCIES
At 1st level, you gain a number of proficiencies that
represent your basic training. These proficiencies are
noted at the start of this class.
ON THE CASE
As an investigator, you think of your adventures as cases
waiting to be solved. You gain one activity and one reaction
you can use to investigate cases: Pursue a Lead and Clue In.
PURSUE A LEAD
CONCENTRATE
EXPLORATION
INVESTIGATOR
Frequency once per 10 minutes
You spend 1 minute examining the details of one potential
clue, designating the subject related to that clue as the
target of your active investigation. This subject is typically
a single creature, item, or small location (such as a room or
corridor), but the GM might allow a different scope for your
investigation. You don’t need to know the identity, purpose,
or nature of the subject, but you do need to be aware of
its existence. For instance, finding a footprint is enough
to investigate the creature that left it, and seeing a hasty
sketch of an item or location can be enough to start your
investigation of that subject.
Whenever you attempt a Perception or skill check to
investigate a designated subject, you gain a +1 circumstance
bonus to the check. The exact checks this applies to depend on
the actions you use to investigate and are determined by the
GM, but checks to investigate are typically Perception checks
or skill checks that use Intelligence, Wisdom, or Charisma.
You can maintain two active investigations at a time. If you
Pursue another Lead after that, the subject must be different
from any of your current investigations (or rather, they must
be different as far as you know), and you give up on a current
subject of your choice. Once you’ve given up pursuit of a
subject, you can’t Pursue that Lead again until after the next
time you make your daily preparations.
CLUE IN [reaction]
CONCENTRATE
INVESTIGATOR
Frequency once per 10 minutes
Trigger Another creature attempts a check to investigate a
lead you’re pursuing.
You share information with the triggering creature. They
gain a circumstance bonus to their check equal to your
circumstance bonus to checks investigating your subject
from Pursue a Lead. The GM can add any relevant traits to
this reaction depending on the situation, such as auditory
and linguistic if you’re conveying information verbally.
DEVISE A STRATAGEM
You can play out a battle in your head, using brains
rather than brawn to execute an attack.
DEVISE A STRATAGEM [one-action]
CONCENTRATE
FORTUNE
INVESTIGATOR
Frequency once per round
You assess a foe’s weaknesses in combat and use them to
formulate a plan of attack against your enemy. Choose a
creature you can see and roll a d20. If you Strike the chosen
creature later this round, you must use the result of the roll
you made to Devise a Stratagem for your Strike’s attack roll
instead of rolling. You make this substitution only for the
Advanced Player's Guide
56
56
