sense with a range of 60 feet. Spiritsense allows you
to sense the spirits of creatures within the listed range,
including living creatures, most non-mindless undead, and
haunts. As with your hearing and other imprecise senses,
you still need to Seek to locate an undetected creature. As
spiritsense detects spiritual essence, not physical bodies, it
can detect spirits projected by spells such as project image
or possessing otherwise soulless objects. It can’t detect
soulless bodies, constructs, or objects, and like most senses,
it doesn’t penetrate through solid objects.
10TH LEVEL
ANCESTRAL MAGE
FEAT 10
SORCERER
Prerequisites Ancestral Blood Magic
The magic of your ancestry and bloodline are one and the
same. Add any innate spells you have from a heritage or an
ancestry feat to your spell repertoire, meaning you can cast
them using your spell slots.
ENERGY FUSION [one-action]
FEAT 10
CONCENTRATE
METAMAGIC
SORCERER
You fuse two spells together, combining their energy types.
If the next action you use is to Cast a Spell that deals acid,
cold, electricity, fire, or sonic damage, select a non-cantrip
spell in your spell repertoire that deals a different type of
energy damage from that list, and expend an additional
spell slot of the same level as this secondary spell. The spell
you cast deals additional damage equal to the level of the
secondary spell slot expended. The spell’s total damage is
divided evenly between the energy type of the spell you cast
and the energy type of the secondary spell.
ENERGY WARD [free-action]
FEAT 10
ABJURATION
SORCERER
Frequency once per turn
Requirements Your most recent action was to cast a
non-cantrip spell that dealt energy damage.
You trap energy from the last spell you cast within your
body, coating your flesh in a protective ward. Until the
start of your next turn, you gain resistance 5 to one type of
energy damage dealt by the spell you just cast.
SIGNATURE SPELL EXPANSION
FEAT 10
SORCERER
Your innate connection to magic lets you cast more spells
with greater freedom. You gain two additional signature
spells, each of which must have a minimum level of 3rd
or lower.
12TH LEVEL
BLOOD COMPONENT SUBSTITUTION
FEAT 12
SORCERER
You can bypass the need for incantations and gestures by
drawing energy directly from your blood, causing you to
visibly glow the color of your blood and crackle with magical
energy. When you Cast a Spell, you can replace all verbal,
material, or somatic spellcasting components
with a blood component. To use a
blood component, you lose Hit
Points equal to twice the
spell’s level as the
your
in
energy
blood is depleted,
can’t
you
and
Advanced Player's Guide
140
140
