DHAMPIR
Many call vampires the children of the night, but it is dhampirs who can truly claim that
title. These mortal offspring of vampires walk the line between life and undeath not just
physiologically, but also in their social standing, temperament, and worldview.
The circumstances surrounding a dhampir’s birth are rare,
complex, and often shrouded in horrific rumors stoked
by societal revulsion at the idea of an undead monstrosity
producing mortal offspring. Some dhampirs are the child of
one mortal and one vampiric parent, while others are born
to those who were turned into vampires while pregnant.
Still others rise from dark rituals or other supernatural
influences that impose a vampiric curse onto a mortal
infant. The life of a dhampir is often difficult: few vampiric
parents have the time or inclination to raise a mortal child,
while mortal communities find a dhampir’s sallow flesh,
piercing eyes, and unnerving presence off-putting at best.
Despite being living creatures, dhampirs respond
to positive and negative energy as if they were undead,
making them unwelcome in many holy communities and
often driving them toward necromantic arts. Dhampirs
aren’t immortal, but age far more slowly than
most mortals, with a lifespan similar to that of
an elf. Dhampirs have difficulty producing
children of their own, and those few born to
a dhampir are never dhampirs themselves.
A dhampir generally resembles a member of their
non-vampire parent’s ancestry, but with a ghostly pallor
and eyes so light it seems they have only pinpoint pupils and
no iris. All dhampirs have elongated incisors, some nearly
as long as those of a true vampire. Many command grace,
beauty, and charm, despite their unsettling appearance.
YOU MIGHT...
• Distance yourself from your heritage by trying to
blend into society or even hunting undead.
• Take special precautions to avoid being exposed to
“helpful” healing magic.
• Find yourself fascinated by the sight, smell, or taste
of blood.
OTHERS PROBABLY...
• Feel unsettled by your ghostly pallor and sharp teeth.
• Wonder about or even romanticize your origins
and motivations.
• Find themselves strangely drawn to your grace,
charm, and appearance.
DHAMPIR (UNCOMMON HERITAGE)
You are the scion of a vampire, half living and half undead,
gifted with uncanny charm and grace, a bloodless pallor,
and elongated incisors. You gain the dhampir trait, in
addition to the traits from your ancestry. You have the
negative healing ability, which means you are harmed by
positive damage and healed by negative effects as if you
were undead. You also gain low-light vision, or you gain
darkvision if your ancestry already has low-light vision.
You can choose from dhampir feats and feats from your
ancestry whenever you gain an ancestry feat.
Advanced Player's Guide
32
32
