MYSTERIOUS REPERTOIRE
FEAT 14
ORACLE
Your mystery holds unknowable depths of magic not always
associated with the divine. You can have one spell in your
spell repertoire not on the divine spell list, in addition to
spells you’ve added to your spell list from feats like Divine
Access. You cast that spell as a divine spell. You can swap
which spell you add and from which tradition as you could
any other oracle spell, but you can’t use this feat to have more
than one spell from another tradition in your spell repertoire
at the same time.
16TH LEVEL
DIVERSE MYSTERY
FEAT 16
ORACLE
Prerequisites Advanced Revelation
You have broadened your understanding of the divine and
can tap into the wonders of a different mystery. Select one
revelation spell from a mystery other than your own. You
can choose only an initial revelation spell or an advanced
revelation spell.
When you cast this revelation spell, you gain the effects
of the minor curse from that mystery in addition to the
normal curse effects you gain from casting a revelation
spell. This additional minor curse effect remains until
your next daily preparations. Any ability that lets you
cast a revelation spell without increasing the severity of
your curse also prevents you from gaining this additional
curse effect.
You can’t cast your chosen revelation spell if any of the
following conditions are true: its mystery’s curse effects
directly conflict with or negate the effects of your own
mystery’s curse, the curse would have no effect on you (for
example, removing an ability from your original mystery
that you lack), or either of these criteria would be met once
you finish Casting the Spell.
PORTENTOUS SPELL [one-action]
FEAT 16
MANIPULATE
MENTAL
METAMAGIC
ORACLE
VISUAL
Your spellcasting is rife with strange lights, esoteric gestures,
and other captivating effects that befuddle your foes. If
the next action you use is to Cast a Spell, any creature that
attempts to use a reaction triggered by your Cast a Spell
activity takes a –2 circumstance penalty to attack rolls and
skill checks rolled as part of the reaction. In addition, if the
spell includes a spell attack roll or requires a saving throw,
creatures you hit or that fail their saves are fascinated with
you until the start of your next turn.
18TH LEVEL
BLAZE OF REVELATION
FEAT 18
ORACLE
Your mind and body can, for a short time, withstand the
devastation of overdrawing your curse. When you would
become overwhelmed by your curse, you can forestall the
effects for up to 1 minute. On each of your turns during
that time, you can cast one revelation spell granted by
your mystery (but not domain spells, spells from Diverse
Mystery, or other revelation spells you gained from other
abilities) without spending Focus Points or taking any
further negative effects.
At the end of the minute, the durations of any revelation
spells you cast during that time end, you take the normal
effects from being overwhelmed by your curse, and you
must attempt a DC 40 Fortitude save.
Critical Success You aren’t otherwise affected.
Success You are drained 2 and can’t reduce or remove this
condition until your next preparations.
Failure You are drained 4 and can’t reduce or remove this
condition until your next preparations.
Critical Failure You die.
DIVINE EFFUSION
FEAT 18
ORACLE
The power of your mystery surges through you like a font of
divine energy, even when your own magic dwindles. Twice per
day, you can cast a spell after you’ve run out of spell slots of
the appropriate spell level; the two spells you cast with this
feat must be of different spell levels.
20TH LEVEL
MYSTERY CONDUIT
FEAT 20
ORACLE
The power of your mystery enables you to cast more than just
revelation spells. When you cast a spell of 5th level or lower
that has no duration, instead of spending a spell slot, you can
advance the effects of your oracular curse in the same manner
as when you cast a revelation spell. A spell cast in this way
gains the cursebound trait.
ORACULAR PROVIDENCE
FEAT 20
ORACLE
Prerequisites oracular clarity
Your mystery grants you access to deep reserves of truly
miraculous divine power. You gain an additional 10th-level
spell slot.
PARADOXICAL MYSTERY
FEAT 20
ORACLE
Prerequisites Greater Revelation
The truest depths of your divine mystery are fathomless
and contradictory, granting you changing powers that even
you can barely begin to fathom. Each day during your daily
preparations, choose one basic or advanced domain spell from
any domain from the Core Rulebook or another domain to
which you have access, or any initial or advanced revelation
spell from another mystery. You gain that spell as a revelation
spell until your next daily preparations, and it has the
cursebound trait.
Classes
2
8181
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Archetypes
Feats
Spells
items
glossary
& index
