constructs made of precious materials, as determined by
the GM, are immune.
• Object If the object is attended, its bearer can attempt
a Fortitude save. If the bearer fails or the object is
unattended, the object immediately takes 4d6 damage
(applying Hardness normally) and the item is cursed with
an unlimited duration. Until the curse ends, the item
becomes shoddy and can’t be Repaired, and the curse
attempts to counteract any spell that would restore
the object’s Hit Points. Remove curse can target an item
affected by this spell.
• Construct The construct takes 4d6 damage (basic
Fortitude save). On a failure, for 1 hour the construct
is clumsy 1, is enfeebled 1, and can’t be Repaired, and
the curse attempts to counteract any spell that would
restore the construct’s Hit Points. On a critical failure,
these effects have an unlimited duration.
• Living Creature The living creature must attempt a
Fortitude save. Ageless creatures are immune.
Critical Success The living creature is unaffected.
Success The living creature briefly ages, becoming
clumsy 1 and enfeebled 1 for 1 round.
Failure As success, with a duration of 1 hour.
Critical Failure As success, with an unlimited duration.
Heightened (+1) The damage increases by 1d6.
DÉJÀ VU
SPELL 1
ENCHANTMENT
INCAPACITATION
MENTAL
Traditions arcane, occult
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal
Range 100 feet; Targets 1 creature
Saving Throw Will; Duration 2 rounds
You loop a thought process in the target’s mind, forcing it to
repeat the same actions over again. The target must attempt
a Will save. If the target fails, whatever actions the target
uses on its next turn, it must repeat on its following turn. The
actions must be repeated in the same order and as close to the
same specifics as possible. For example, if the target makes
an attack, it must repeat the attack against the same creature,
if possible, and if the target moves, it must move the same
distance and direction, if possible, on its next turn.
If the target can’t repeat an action, such as Casting a Spell
that has been exhausted or needing to target a creature that
has died, it can act as it chooses for that action but becomes
stupefied 1 until the end of its turn.
DISMANTLE
SPELL 2
TRANSMUTATION
Traditions arcane, primal
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal
Range touch; Targets 1 non-magical object in your possession
of 1 Bulk or less
Duration 1 minute
You touch an object, and it immediately disassembles itself into
its component pieces. The spell fails if the target lacks component
pieces (such as a statue carved from one block of stone), and
using it on a dangerous object like a snare or trap typically
triggers it. The object gains the broken condition, and the
component pieces become small enough to be hidden under
normal clothing and armor. You can Dismiss the spell.
When the spell ends, the object reassembles itself into
its original form, appearing in your hand or hands if you have
them free, or on the ground in front of you otherwise. Once
reassembled, the object loses the broken condition and its Hit
Points return to the value the object had when you Cast the Spell.
Heightened (4th) The spell lasts for 10 minutes.
Heightened (6th) The spell lasts until your next daily preparations.
DULL AMBITION
SPELL 4
CURSE
ENCHANTMENT
MENTAL
MISFORTUNE
Traditions arcane, divine, occult
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal
Range 120 feet; Targets 1 creature
Saving Throw Will; Duration varies
You curse the target to fail in all avenues of its life that require
drive and ambition, as it inadvertently undermines its own
goals at every turn. The effect is based on the target’s Will save.
Critical Success The target is unaffected.
Success For 1 hour, the target rolls twice and uses the lower
result on initiative rolls.
Failure For 1 day, the target rolls twice and uses the lower
result on initiative rolls and any check to determine the
success of a downtime activity.
Critical Failure As failure, but the duration is unlimited.
ENERVATION
SPELL 4
NECROMANCY
NEGATIVE
Traditions arcane, divine, occult
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal
Area 30-foot line
Saving Throw Fortitude
Extending a finger, you fire a beam of negative energy that
weakens the life force of any creature it touches. Each living
creature in the line must attempt a Fortitude save.
Critical Success The creature is unaffected.
Success The creature takes 2d8 persistent negative damage.
Failure The creature takes 4d8 persistent negative damage
and becomes drained 1.
Critical Failure The creature takes 4d8 persistent negative
damage and becomes drained 2 and doomed 1.
Heightened (+2) The persistent negative damage increases by
1d8 on a success, or by 2d8 on a failure or critical failure.
FAMILIAR’S FACE
SPELL 3
DIVINATION
SCRYING
Traditions arcane, divine, occult, primal
Cast [two-actions] somatic, material
Range 1 mile; Targets 1 willing creature that is your animal
companion or familiar
Duration sustained
The target becomes a scrying sensor, allowing you to see through
its eyes, smell what it smells, and similarly use its other senses.
Advanced Player's Guide
218
218
