triggering attack. This turns the triggering critical hit into a hit,
or the triggering hit into a miss.
IMPALING FINISHER [one-action]
FEAT 4
FINISHER
SWASHBUCKLER
You stab two foes with a single thrust or bash them together
with one punch. Make a bludgeoning or piercing melee Strike
and compare the attack roll result against the AC of up to two
foes. One foe must be adjacent to you, and the other foe must
be adjacent to and directly behind the first foe, in a straight
line from your space. Roll damage once and apply it to each
creature you hit. An Impaling Finisher counts as two attacks
when calculating your multiple attack penalty.
LEADING DANCE [one-action]
FEAT 4
MOVE
SWASHBUCKLER
Prerequisites trained in Performance
Requirements You are adjacent to an enemy.
You sweep your foe into your dance. Attempt a Performance
check against an adjacent enemy’s Will DC. If your
swashbuckler’s style is battledancer and you succeed, you
gain panache.
Critical Success Your foe is swept up in your dance. You both
move up to 10 feet in the same direction, remaining adjacent
to one another. Your movement doesn’t trigger reactions
from the target (and the target’s movement doesn’t trigger
reactions because it’s forced movement).
Success As critical success, but you both move only 5 feet.
Failure The foe doesn’t follow your steps. You can move 5 feet
if you choose, but this movement triggers reactions normally.
Critical Failure You stumble, falling prone in your space.
SWAGGERING INITIATIVE [free-action]
FEAT 4
SWASHBUCKLER
Trigger You are about to roll initiative.
You swagger readily into any fight—even an ambush. You
gain a +2 circumstance bonus to your initiative roll and can
Interact to draw a weapon.
TWIN PARRY [one-action]
FEAT 4
SWASHBUCKLER
Requirements You wield two melee weapons, one in each hand.
You use your weapons to parry. You gain a +1 circumstance bonus
to AC until the start of your next turn, or a +2 circumstance bonus
if either weapon has the parry trait. You lose this circumstance
bonus if you no longer meet this feat’s requirement.
6TH LEVEL
AGILE MANEUVERS
FEAT 6
SWASHBUCKLER
Prerequisites expert in Athletics
Your easily maneuver against your foes. Your Grapple, Shove,
and Trip actions have a lower multiple attack penalty: –4 instead
of –5 if they’re the second attack on your turn, or –8 instead of
–10 if they’re the third or subsequent attack on your turn.
GYMNAST
You fight with both agility and muscle, controlling
your foe’s movements on the battlefield with style
and flair.
ABILITY SCORES
Prioritize Dexterity and Strength for Acrobatics, Athletics,
attacks, and damage.
SKILLS
Acrobatics, Athletics, Diplomacy, Intimidation, Medicine,
Society
SWASHBUCKLER’S STYLE
Gymnast
STARTING FEAT
Disarming Flair
HIGHER-LEVEL FEATS
Flamboyant Athlete (4th), Agile Maneuvers (6th),
Derring-Do (10th), Flamboyant Leap (14th)
SAMPLE SWASHBUCKLER
Advanced Player's Guide
90
90
