Poisoner
People are so delightfully fragile when exposed to the
glories of nature. The bite of a certain serpent makes
the blood congeal to jelly. A particular stone, suitably
powdered, causes hallucinations and delirium. The sap
of a tree inflicts such pain that death seems preferable.
You are a student of such dark wonders, making you a
dangerous foe indeed.
Additional Feats: 4th Poison Resistance (Core
Rulebook 77), Subtle Delivery (page 106); 6th Poison
Weapon (Core Rulebook 185), Tenacious Toxins (page
107); 8th Sticky Poison (page 107); 10th Improved Poison
Weapon (Core Rulebook 187), Pinpoint Poisoner (page
107); 12th Improved Poison Weapon (Core Rulebook
187); 18th Chemical Contagion (page 107)
POISONER DEDICATION
FEAT 2
ARCHETYPE
DEDICATION
Prerequisites trained in Crafting
You make a point of always having a few toxins near at
hand—you never know when some arsenic or the like might
prove useful. You gain the basic alchemy benefits (page 150),
though they can be used only for alchemical poisons. You
gain batches of infused reagents per day equal to your level.
Your advanced alchemy level for creating these is 1 and
doesn’t increase on its own.
Special You can’t select another dedication feat until you have
gained at least two other feats from the poisoner archetype.
POISONER’S TWIST [one-action]
FEAT 4
ARCHETYPE
Prerequisites Poisoner Dedication, trained in Medicine
Requirements Your last action was a successful melee Strike
that dealt damage against a target that is afflicted by a
poison, and you know which poison.
Poisons attack specific parts of the body—one venom might
target the lungs, another the circulatory system, while another
deteriorates the nerves. You know how to take advantage
of such weaknesses. You deal 1d6 damage of the required
Strike’s damage type and 1d6 poison damage to the target. If
you’re at least 18th level, you deal 2d6 damage of each type.
EXPERT POISONER
FEAT 6
ARCHETYPE
Prerequisites Poisoner Dedication, expert in Crafting
Your advanced alchemy level for poison increases to your
level – 3.
POISON COAT [reaction]
FEAT 6
ARCHETYPE
Prerequisites Poisoner Dedication
Trigger A creature adjacent to you hits you with a melee
unarmed Strike.
Requirements You have prepared your clothing to poison
attackers (see below).
In nature, certain animals are covered in venomous spines,
such that even touching them is deadly. To use this reaction,
you must have brushed poison onto your clothing or woven
sharp poisoned needles into the garment’s fabric. This takes
10 minutes and uses one dose of contact or injury poison. You
can have only one such poison suffused into your clothing at
a time.
When you use this reaction, the triggering creature is
exposed to the suffused poison.
ACQUIRED TOLERANCE [reaction]
FEAT 8
ARCHETYPE
FORTUNE
Prerequisites Poisoner Dedication
Trigger You fail a save against a poison.
A small amount of poison, taken at nonlethal doses, can
help the body build up a resistance against a more deadly
dosage. Reroll the triggering check and use the
second result. Once you use Acquired Tolerance,
you can continue to use it against the same type
of poison that day, but you can’t use it against
a different type of poison until after you make
your next daily preparations. For instance, if
you used the reaction on a save against giant
scorpion venom, you could use it again against giant
scorpion venom even if it came from a different source, but
you couldn’t use it against nettleweed residue, lich dust, or
another poison.
Advanced Player's Guide
186
186
