FLAME AUGUR
You are a flaming force to be reckoned with on the
battlefield, scorching foes near and far.
ABILITY SCORES
Prioritize Charisma for your spellcasting. Constitution
improves your hardiness, and Dexterity keeps you out of
harm’s way.
SKILLS
Acrobatics, Arcana, Intimidation, Occultism, Religion
MYSTERY
Flames
FEATS
Widen Spell (1st), Vision of Weakness (4th), Surging Might
(10th), Portentous Spell (16th), Blaze of Revelation (18th)
SPELL REPERTOIRE
1st bless, burning hands; Cantrips detect magic, guidance,
light, message, produce flame, shield
SAMPLE ORACLE
Moderate Curse The flat check DC to use other actions
is 6, and you get the moderate curse benefit listed for your
predominant ancestor in Table 2–4.
Major Curse (11th) The flat check DC is 8, and you get the
major curse benefit listed for your predominant ancestor
instead of the moderate curse benefit.
BATTLE
Warlike forces fill you with physical might and tactical
knowledge, aiming to have you uphold the glory of combat,
fight to improve the world, prepare against the necessity
of conflict, or endure the inevitability of war. You might
draw upon deities such as Gorum, Iomedae, Rovagug, the
Horseman of War Szuriel, the Queen of the Night Eiseth, the
Vudrani god Diomazul, and others, or you might find power
in the unending conflict between the armies of Heaven and
Hell, the Elemental Planes, the Outer Gods, or even the
collective spirits of those who fought in wars over the ages.
Mystery Benefit You are no stranger to the trappings of
warfare. You are trained in medium and heavy armor. At
13th level, if you gain the light armor expertise class feature,
you also gain expert proficiency in these armors.
Choose one weapon group that embodies your mystery. You
are trained in all martial weapons of that group. At 11th level,
if you gain the weapon expertise class feature, you also gain
expert proficiency for martial weapons in your chosen group,
and you become trained in advanced weapons in that group.
Trained Skill Athletics
Granted Cantrip shield
Revelation Spells initial: call to arms; advanced: battlefield
persistence; greater: heroic feat
Related Domains might, zeal
CurSe of tHe Hero’S Burden
You thrive while adrenaline flows and your life depends on
your might alone, but holding the collective battle prowess
of the ages within you leaves your body weakened after a
fight. You smell faintly of steel and blood no matter how
you try to remove or mask the scent, you appear more
muscular than you actually are, and you hear the faint clash
and clamor of battle in the distance at all times.
Minor Curse Your body languishes when you aren’t
bringing harm to your foes. You take a –2 status penalty to
AC and saving throws, but each time you make a Strike, you
can suspend these penalties until the start of your next turn.
Moderate Curse The strain of conflict wears upon your
body, even though you gain vitality from it. Making a Strike
reduces the penalty from your minor curse to –1 rather than
suspending it entirely. You gain a +2 status bonus to weapon
and unarmed damage rolls. You also gain fast healing equal to
half your level while in a non-trivial combat encounter.
Major Curse (11th) Your body proves capable of truly heroic
feats, but doing so interferes with your mental focus. Your
moderate curse’s fast healing is equal to your level, and its
damage bonus is +6. You gain a +1 status bonus to weapon and
unarmed attack rolls, but you are stupefied 2.
Advanced Player's Guide
74
74
