ENCHANTING ARROW [two-actions]
FEAT 8
ARCHETYPE
EMOTION
ENCHANTMENT
MAGICAL
MENTAL
Prerequisites Eldritch Archer Dedication
With a single whisper carried on the wind, you enchant your
ammunition to make a foe more vulnerable to your attacks.
Make a bow Strike. On a hit, the target takes an additional
2d6 mental damage. On a critical hit, the target also becomes
stunned 1. The mental damage increases to 3d6 if your bow
has a greater striking rune, or to 4d6 if your bow has a major
striking rune.
MAGIC ARROW [free-action]
FEAT 8
ARCHETYPE
MAGICAL
TRANSMUTATION
Prerequisites Eldritch Archer Dedication
Frequency once per round
You imbue your ammunition with eldritch power. When
you select this feat, choose three types of common magical
ammunition of 4th level or lower from the Core Rulebook (page
559) or this book (pages 256–259). Your GM might allow you
to choose from other types of magical ammunition, such as
uncommon ammunition, or ammunition from other books.
When using Magic Arrow, you transform a non-magical
arrow or bolt into a piece of ammunition of one type you
chose. You must shoot the ammunition before the end of
your turn or the magic dissipates. If the ammunition has an
Activate entry, you still need to spend the required actions
to activate the ammunition before shooting it. When you use
Magic Arrow, you can choose a type of magical ammunition
that is typically not available to the type of ammunition you’re
using—for example, you can use climbing bolt on an arrow,
even though that magical ammunition is normally only found
on bolts.
Special You can select this feat multiple times. Each time
you do, select three additional types of ammunition as
described above.
PRECIOUS ARROW [one-action]
FEAT 8
ARCHETYPE
MAGICAL
TRANSMUTATION
Prerequisites Eldritch Archer Dedication
You enchant a piece of ammunition with the magical essence
of a precious material, allowing you to leverage certain
creatures’ weaknesses. Choose cold iron or silver; if you
shoot the arrow before the end of your turn, it counts as
that material. At 14th level, add adamantine to the list of
materials you can choose from.
EXPERT ELDRITCH ARCHER SPELLCASTING
FEAT 12
ARCHETYPE
Prerequisites Basic Eldritch Archer Spellcasting
You gain the expert spellcasting benefits (page 150).
SEEKER ARROW [one-action]
FEAT 14
ARCHETYPE
DIVINATION
MAGICAL
Prerequisites Eldritch Archer Dedication
Your shots zip around corners and fly at impossible angles
to reach your target. Make a bow Strike against a foe you
can see; the ammunition travels to your target, even around
corners. You ignore the target’s concealed condition and
all cover.
PHASE ARROW [one-action]
FEAT 16
ARCHETYPE
CONJURATION
MAGICAL
Prerequisites Eldritch Archer Dedication
Frequency once per day
You can concentrate an immense amount of magic to create
a piece of ammunition that phases through everything but
your target. Make a bow Strike against a foe who is observed
or hidden to you (but not undetected). The ammunition
travels to your target in a straight line, passing through
any non-magical barriers or walls in its way, though magical
barriers stop the arrow. The shot ignores all cover, the
concealed condition, the hidden condition, and circumstance
bonuses to AC from shields. It has a +4 status bonus to hit
creatures wearing any type of armor. The Strike’s damage
can’t be reduced with a Shield Block reaction using a
non-magical shield.
ARROW OF DEATH [three-actions]
FEAT 18
ARCHETYPE
MAGICAL
NECROMANCY
Prerequisites Eldritch Archer Dedication
Frequency once per day
You modify an arrow or bolt to bring death to your target in
a single potent hit. Make a bow Strike. On a hit, you deal an
additional 10d10 precision damage. On a critical hit, the target
must also succeed at a Fortitude saving throw against your
class DC or spell DC, whichever is higher, or be immediately
slain; this save has the death and incapacitation traits.
MASTER ELDRITCH ARCHER SPELLCASTING FEAT 18
ARCHETYPE
Prerequisites Expert Eldritch Archer Spellcasting
You gain the master spellcasting benefits (page 150).
ELVEN ARROWS
The ability to infuse eldritch energy into bow shots
is often seen as a kind of elven magic. While it may
be true that elves first developed eldritch archery as
a martial art, and many eldritch archers are elves and
half-elves, other peoples have learned and developed
their own forms of eldritch archery.
Some whisper that remote regions to the south
have their own dedications that rely on elemental
archery, while the strange and shadowy hunters
of the Uskwood use a form that relies on tenebrous
shadow magic. Disturbing rumors circulate claiming
that devils have developed a diabolical form of magical
archery that can trap the soul and bind it to Hell, albeit
for a short time. Like any form of magic, the discipline
of eldritch archery will continue to develop among its
practitioners across the multiverse.
Archetypes
3
173
173
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Archetypes
Feats
Spells
items
glossary
& Index
