failed attempt to make a Request, the target’s attitude
toward you doesn’t worsen.
EXPRESS RIDER
FEAT 1
EXPLORATION
GENERAL
MOVE
SKILL
Prerequisites trained in Nature
You know how to encourage your mount to cover ground
quickly. When calculating your travel speed (Core Rulebook
479) for the day while mounted, you can attempt a Nature
check to Command an Animal to increase your mount’s travel
speed. The DC is determined by the GM, but is typically based
on the mount’s level or the difficulty of the environment,
whichever is harder. On a success, increase your mount’s travel
speed by half. This has no effect on your mount’s movement
in encounters.
EYE FOR NUMBERS [one-action]
FEAT 1
GENERAL
SKILL
Prerequisites trained in Society
You’ve learned to subitize, quickly estimating the number of
items in a group with relative accuracy at only a glance. You
immediately learn the number of visually similar items in a
group you can see (such as coins, books, or people), rounded
to the first digit in the total number. For example, you could
look at a case of potion vials and learn that it held about 30
vials, but you wouldn’t know that it was exactly 33 vials,
how many different types of potions there were, or how
many of which type. Similarly, you could look at a pile of
2,805 coins and know that there were about 3,000 coins in
all. You can use this ability only on items that can typically
be counted, so you can’t use it on grains of sand or stars in
the sky, for example.
In addition, when you attempt to Decipher Writing
that is primarily numerical or mathematical, you gain a +2
circumstance bonus to your check.
FORENSIC ACUMEN
FEAT 1
GENERAL
SKILL
Prerequisites trained in Medicine
You understand the principles of forensic medicine, making
you better at examining a body to determine the cause of
death or injury. You can perform a forensic examination on a
body, as described under Recall Knowledge in the Medicine
skill, in half the normal amount of time it would take (to a
minimum of 5 minutes). If you succeed at your check, you can
attempt an immediate check to Recall Knowledge to follow up
on something you found, with a +2 circumstance bonus. This
check is usually related to the cause of injury or death, such
as a Crafting check to identify a poison or weapon that was
used or an additional Medicine check to identify a specific
disease. If you prefer, you can instead attempt to Recall
Knowledge about the type of creature whose body you were
examining, using the appropriate skill and gaining the same
circumstance bonus.
The circumstance bonus increases to +3 if you have master
proficiency in Medicine and +4 if you have legendary proficiency.
GLEAN CONTENTS
FEAT 1
GENERAL
SKILL
Prerequisites trained in Society
You are adept at quickly scanning loose papers and carefully
discerning the contents of sealed letters without damaging
the seal. You can attempt Society checks to Decipher Writing
on a message that is only partially glimpsed, upside down or
reversed from your perspective, or even sealed. However, on
a critical failure, the recipient is made aware of your efforts
(for instance, you damage the seal or disturb the papers in
some way). When using this feat to decipher sealed letters,
your attempt to Decipher Writing gains the manipulate trait.
This feat doesn’t prevent witnesses from noticing your efforts,
particularly with sealed letters which you must manipulate
directly in order to read; you might need to attempt Deception
or Stealth checks to avoid being noticed.
HIRELING MANAGER
FEAT 3
GENERAL
Prerequisites Charisma 14
You are able to find and secure better labor than most.
When securing a hireling for a service, that hireling gains a
+2 circumstance bonus to all skill checks. This circumstance
bonus applies to both trained and untrained hirelings and has
no effect on the cost of the service or labor provided.
IMPROVISE TOOL
FEAT 1
GENERAL
SKILL
Prerequisites trained in Crafting
You can jury-rig solutions when you don’t have the proper
tools on hand. You can attempt to Repair damaged items
without a repair kit.
If you have the raw materials available, you can Craft a basic
caltrop set, candle, compass, crowbar, fishing tackle, flint and
steel, hammer, ladder, piton, rope, 10-foot pole, replacement
thieves’ picks, long or short tool, or torch without consulting
a basic crafter’s book.
IMPROVISED REPAIR [three-actions]
FEAT 3
GENERAL
You are skilled at making quick fixes to damaged equipment,
but your fixes aren’t meant to last forever. You make a quick
repair to a broken non-magical item in your possession. Until
the item takes damage again, you can still use it as a shoddy
item of its type. This repair restores no Hit Points, so the item
is easy to destroy. Once the item is Repaired normally such
that it is no longer broken, it is also no longer shoddy.
INCREDIBLE SCOUT
FEAT 11
GENERAL
Prerequisites master in Perception
When you scout, you are particularly alert for danger, granting
your allies precious moments to prepare to fight. When using
the Scout exploration activity, you grant your allies a +2
circumstance bonus to their initiative rolls instead of a +1
circumstance bonus.
Advanced Player's Guide
206
206
