ALIGNMENT AND RELIGION
Most duskwalkers are neutral or have a neutral
component to their alignment. While the typical
duskwalker worships or at least respects Pharasma and
her powerful psychopomp ushers, any deity associated
with death, society, or the occult might attract a
duskwalker’s attention.
DUSKWALKER (UNCOMMON HERITAGE)
Thanks to an ancient bargain, your soul has been reborn
as a duskwalker, a planar scion with a connection to
psychopomps and the Boneyard. You gain the duskwalker
trait in addition to the traits from your ancestry. You
also gain low-light vision, or you gain darkvision if your
ancestry already has low-light vision. Neither your body
nor your spirit can ever become undead. You can choose
from duskwalker feats and feats from your ancestry
whenever you gain an ancestry feat.
DUSKWALKER FEATS
1ST LEVEL
DUSKWALKER LORE
FEAT 1
DUSKWALKER
You either found another duskwalker who taught you the
secrets of your kind, or you managed to research your unusual
heritage. You gain the trained proficiency rank in Medicine and
Religion. If you would automatically become trained in one
of those skills (from your background or class, for example),
you instead become trained in a skill of your choice. You also
become trained in Boneyard Lore.
GHOST HUNTER
FEAT 1
DUSKWALKER
Your connection to the Boneyard ensures that your blows
strike true against spectral beings. Your weapon and unarmed
attack Strikes against incorporeal creatures become magical.
If they are already magical, they instead gain the effects of a
ghost touch property rune.
GRAVESIGHT
FEAT 1
DUSKWALKER
Prerequisites low-light vision
You can see in the darkness as easily as a psychopomp. You
gain darkvision.
Special You can select this feat only at 1st level, and you
can’t retrain into or out of this feat.
5TH LEVEL
LIFESENSE
FEAT 5
DIVINATION
DIVINE
DUSKWALKER
You have a limited ability to sense life force, like your
psychopomp forebears. You gain lifesense as an imprecise
sense with a range of 10 feet. This allows you to sense the life
force within living creatures and its counterforce that animates
the undead, though you can’t distinguish between the two.
SPIRIT SOOTHER
FEAT 5
DUSKWALKER
You are attuned to the minute sounds and sensations of restless
spirits. Even if you aren’t Searching, you can attempt a check to
find haunts that normally require you to be Searching. You still
need to meet any other requirements to find the haunt.
WARD AGAINST CORRUPTION
FEAT 5
DUSKWALKER
Your soul is warded against the power of undeath and plague,
as well as that of the evil former psychopomps known as
sahkils. You gain a +1 circumstance bonus to saving throws
against death effects, disease, and all effects from undead
or sahkils. This bonus increases to +2 against an undead or
sahkil’s death effect or disease.
9TH LEVEL
DUSKWALKER MAGIC
FEAT 9
DUSKWALKER
Your connection to psychopomps gives you the power to
glimpse the near future and protect corpses from the ravages
of undeath. You can cast augury and gentle repose each once
per day as 2nd-level divine innate spells.
SPIRIT STRIKES
FEAT 9
DUSKWALKER
Your connection to the Boneyard empowers you to bring death
to all forms of life and unlife, exploiting their weaknesses. All
your weapon and unarmed Strikes are magical and deal 1
additional negative damage to living creatures and 1 additional
positive damage to undead.
13TH LEVEL
RESIST RUIN
FEAT 13
DUSKWALKER
Your duskwalker heritage allows you to extend protection
against negative energy to yourself or an ally in need. You gain
resistance 5 to negative energy, and once per day, you can cast
death ward as a divine innate spell.
17TH LEVEL
BONEYARD’S CALL
FEAT 17
DUSKWALKER
You have a powerful connection to the Boneyard and its
courts, granting you the ability to travel to and from the
Boneyard. You gain plane shift as a divine innate spell. You can
cast it twice per week. This can be used only to travel to the
Boneyard or from the Boneyard to the Material Plane. Due to
your unique connection to the Boneyard, your body serves as
the focus, and you don’t require a tuning fork.
Advanced Player's Guide
38
38
