Many warriors rely on brute force, weighty armor, or cumbersome weapons.
For you, battle is a dance where you move among foes with style and grace.
You dart among combatants with flair and land powerful finishing moves
with a flick of the wrist and a flash of the blade, all while countering attacks with elegant
ripostes that keep enemies off balance. Harassing and thwarting your foes lets you charm
fate and cheat death time and again with aplomb and plenty of flair.
HIT POINTS
10 plus your Constitution modifier
You increase your maximum number of
HP by this number at 1st level and every
level thereafter.
KEY ABILITY
DEXTERITY
At 1st level, your class gives you
an ability boost to Dexterity.
DURING COMBAT ENCOUNTERS...
You show off to gain panache, leveraging your flair to build up to powerful finishing
moves. You stay nimble, moving into the best position to perform your maneuvers
while dodging enemy blows and responding with swift ripostes. Depending on your
swashbuckler’s style, you might dance among your foes; slip past their defenses; or
beguile, distract, or frighten them.
DURING SOCIAL ENCOUNTERS...
You are equally likely to charm or intimidate others—or both. You might be an adept
socialite, or you might create distractions for others who do the talking.
WHILE EXPLORING...
You keep a careful eye on your surroundings and other people, always prepared to
leap into action with bravado and flair. You interact with the environment in bold,
sweeping strokes rather than skulking to avoid detection.
IN DOWNTIME...
You might carouse at the tavern, repair and maintain your armaments, or train to
learn new techniques. To maintain your impressive reputation, you might build an
organization in your name or establish a following of admirers.
YOU MIGHT...
• Portray yourself as a heroic daredevil or a roguish braggart, knowing you can live
up to the image you present.
• Hold yourself in high esteem, confident in your abilities and your reputation.
• Practice your skills and maneuvers regularly to ensure you never grow rusty.
OTHERS PROBABLY...
• Admire your theatrics, bravado, and skill with a blade.
• Find you arrogant unless they know you well enough to appreciate your style.
• Underestimate how much of a threat you pose until they face the end of your
deadly blade.
INITIAL PROFICIENCIES
At 1st level, you gain the
listed proficiency ranks in
the following statistics. You
are untrained in anything
not listed unless you gain a
better proficiency rank in some
other way.
PERCEPTION
Expert in Perception
SAVING THROWS
Trained in Fortitude
Expert in Reflex
Expert in Will
SKILLS
Trained in Acrobatics
Trained in one skill determined
by your swashbuckler’s style
Trained in a number of
additional skills equal to 4 plus
your Intelligence modifier
ATTACKS
Trained in simple weapons
Trained in martial weapons
Trained in unarmed attacks
DEFENSES
Trained in light armor
Trained in unarmored defense
CLASS DC
Trained in swashbuckler class
DC
Classes
2
83
83
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Archetypes
Feats
Spells
items
glossary
& Index

SWASHBUCKLER
