PALE HORSE
FEAT 12
UNCOMMON
CHAMPION
Prerequisites divine ally (steed), tenets of evil
Your mount becomes a grotesque creature of foreboding when
you ride it. Its appearance transforms as flames erupt from
its skin, a whorl of negative energy surrounds it, or poison
leaks from its flesh. When you Mount your steed ally, you
can choose fire, negative, or poison. As long as you ride it,
your steed gains resistance 10 to the chosen damage type,
and any creature that touches your steed takes 1d6 damage of
the chosen type; this includes hitting the steed with unarmed
attacks or with a melee weapon Strike while adjacent to the
steed. This damage increases to 2d6 at 16th level and 3d6 at
20th level.
14TH LEVEL
AURA OF PRESERVATION
FEAT 14
CHAMPION
Prerequisites Esoteric Oath
Your aura protects against the twisting powers of aberrations.
You and all allies within 15 feet gain a +1 status bonus to
Fortitude and Will saves against effects from aberrations. You
also gain a +1 status bonus to Fortitude saves against morph or
polymorph effects and Will saves against mental effects; this
bonus increases to +2 against aberrations’ morph, polymorph,
or mental effects.
GREATER INTERPOSE
FEAT 14
CHAMPION
Prerequisites Sacrifice Armor
Your divine grace empowers you to avoid hits when you
otherwise could not. You can use Sacrifice Armor to reduce any
type of damage from an attack or effect requiring a Reflex save.
When you use Sacrifice Armor against a critical hit or a critical
failure on a Reflex save that would otherwise cause you to take
double damage, you take the normal amount of damage instead.
LITANY OF DEPRAVITY
FEAT 14
UNCOMMON
CHAMPION
Prerequisites tenets of evil
You undercut your enemy’s vain moralism, opening their heart
to evil. You can cast the litany of depravity focus spell (page
228). Increase the number of Focus Points in your focus pool
by 1.
16TH LEVEL
EXPAND AURA [one-action]
FEAT 16
CHAMPION
CONCENTRATE
Prerequisites You have at least one aura from a champion
feat or feature.
You focus your divine power to extend your influence. Select
one aura you have from a champion feat or feature, such as
Aura of Courage or Aura of Life. The radius of the aura is
doubled until the start of your next turn.
INSTRUMENT OF SLAUGHTER
FEAT 16
UNCOMMON
CHAMPION
Prerequisites divine ally (blade), tenets of evil
Your blade ally thirsts for the blood of your foes. Whenever
you critically hit an enemy with the weapon inhabited by your
blade ally while dealing extra damage from your champion’s
reaction, the target takes persistent bleed damage equal to
two of the weapon’s damage dice.
18TH LEVEL
FIENDISH FORM
FEAT 18
UNCOMMON
CHAMPION
Prerequisites tenets of evil
Your features reshape into those of a type of fiend who
serves your deity; for example, as a demon you might have
putrid scales, twisted horns, and red eyes. You gain a fly
Speed equal to your Speed. You gain darkvision if you don’t
already have it, and you gain the fiend trait and the trait
appropriate to the type of servitor you’ve become (such as
daemon, demon, or devil).
REJUVENATING TOUCH
FEAT 18
CHAMPION
Prerequisites devotion spell (lay on hands)
Your healing energies linger after you cast, providing continual
benefits. An ally that recovers Hit Points from your lay on
hands gains 10 temporary Hit Points at the start of their turn
during each of the next 10 rounds. This effect ends if the ally
is knocked unconscious.
20TH LEVEL
FIENDISH MOUNT
FEAT 20
UNCOMMON
CHAMPION
Prerequisites divine ally (steed), tenets of evil
Your steed ally manifests a suite of powerful and sinister
gifts granted to it by your deity. It gains darkvision, its
maximum Hit Points increase by 40, and it gains weakness
10 to good damage.
Additionally, it grows wings appropriate for a servitor of
your deity (such as bat wings for a devil), granting it a fly
Speed equal to its Speed. It gains the fiend trait and the trait
appropriate to the type of servitor it has become (such as
daemon, demon, or devil).
SACRED DEFENDER
FEAT 20
CHAMPION
You are a great warrior that can stand strong against the
fiercest opponents to your cause. You gain resistance 10
to bludgeoning, piercing, and slashing damage caused by
creatures and effects opposed to your tenets (evil creatures
for tenets of good, good creatures for tenets of evil, and so
on). In addition, creatures and effects that roll a natural 20
on an attack roll against you don’t improve their result by one
degree of success.
Classes
2
121
121
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Archetypes
Feats
Spells
items
glossary
& index
