You seek to uncover the truth, doggedly pursuing leads to reveal the plots
of devious villains, discover ancient secrets, or unravel other mysteries. Your
analytical mind quickly formulates solutions to complicated problems and your
honed senses identify even the most obscure clues. Wielding knowledge as a weapon, you
study the creatures and dangers you encounter to exploit their weaknesses.
HIT POINTS
8 plus your Constitution modifier
You increase your maximum number
of HP by this number at 1st level and
every level thereafter.
KEY ABILITY
INTELLIGENCE
At 1st level, your class gives you
an ability boost to Intelligence.
DURING COMBAT ENCOUNTERS...
Your keen insights regarding your foes make you more dangerous than your
physical strength would suggest. After spending a moment to study your enemies,
your perceptiveness allows you to act quickly, striking them where it hurts most.
You often assist tougher members of your party, wisely protecting yourself while
providing vital aid.
DURING SOCIAL ENCOUNTERS...
Few can stand up against your scrutiny. You might not be the most charming, but
you see things for what they really are and develop an understanding of a social
situation rapidly. Every conversation is an investigation, after all, and you never
know what you might uncover!
WHILE EXPLORING...
You look for clues in your environment. You often prove yourself to be a valuable
ally by serving as a party scout, analyzing the intricacies of puzzles or mysterious
phenomena, and pursuing leads that could reveal beneficial information.
IN DOWNTIME...
You study up on subjects new and old, make new allies you can share information
with, and pursue hobbies that keep your active mind satisfied. You might make a
bit of coin on the side working as a private detective or consulting with the local
constabulary.
YOU MIGHT...
• Start asking questions—including several that are quite involved—immediately
after you’re presented with a conundrum.
• Strive to uncover the deeper meanings behind anything you encounter and to
identify the social machinations that truly drive events behind the scenes.
• Get so involved in a case that you ignore other matters, deeming them trivial.
OTHERS PROBABLY...
• Find the cascades of information you spout forth extremely helpful, if difficult to
fully comprehend.
• Get a bit annoyed that you’re such a know-it-all.
• Rely on you to solve mysteries, puzzles, or other challenges requiring intellectual
curiosity and reasoning.
INITIAL PROFICIENCIES
At 1st level, you gain the listed
proficiency ranks in the following
statistics. You are untrained in
anything not listed unless you
gain a better proficiency rank in
some other way.
PERCEPTION
Expert in Perception
SAVING THROWS
Trained in Fortitude
Expert in Reflex
Expert in Will
SKILLS
Trained in Society
Trained in one or more
skills determined by your
methodology
Trained in a number of
additional skills equal to 4 plus
your Intelligence modifier
ATTACKS
Trained in simple and martial
weapons
Trained in unarmed attacks
DEFENSES
Trained in light armor
Trained in unarmored defense
CLASS DC
Trained in investigator class DC
Classes
2
55
55
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Archetypes
Feats
Spells
items
glossary
& Index

INVESTIGATOR
