TOXICOLOGIST RESEARCH FIELD
In addition to the research fields in the Core Rulebook,
you can select the toxicologist research field to study and
formulate all sorts of dangerous toxins. The toxicologist
field grants the following benefits.
Research Field (1st Level): You specialize in toxins
and venoms of all types. You start with the formulas
for two common 1st-level alchemical poisons in your
formula book, in addition to your other formulas. You
can apply an injury poison you’re holding to a weapon
you’re wielding as a single action, rather than as a
2-action activity, and you can change the DCs of your
infused poisons to your class DC if it’s higher.
ALCHEMIST
Ever innovating, alchemists constantly invent new scientific marvels, weapons,
and techniques that push the boundaries of both possibility and safety.
Field Discovery (5th Level): When using advanced
alchemy to make poisons during your daily preparations,
you can spend one batch of reagents to create three
poisons in any combination, instead of just two of the
same poison.
Perpetual Infusions (7th Level): Choose two common
1st-level alchemical poisons.
Perpetual Potency (11th Level): Choose two common
5th-level or lower alchemical poisons.
Greater Field Discovery (15th Level): You can apply
two different injury poisons to the same weapon,
though not to a piece of ammunition. The two poisons
can be up to six levels lower than your level, and you
can’t use the poisons made without spending a batch
of infused reagents via perpetual infusions. Applying
the two poisons requires a separate action to apply
each poison. Once completed, you combine the two
poisons on the weapon into a double poison with the
lower of the two poisons’ DCs. This double poison is
only virulent if both poisons were virulent, and if the
poisons have a different number of stages, the double
poison has a number of stages equal to the poison
with the lower number of stages. The target takes
the effects of both poisons for its current stage.
Perpetual Perfection (17th Level): Choose two
common 11th-level or lower alchemical poisons.
ALCHEMIST FEATS
Alchemists can choose from the following feats.
1ST LEVEL
SUBTLE DELIVERY
FEAT 1
ALCHEMIST
You can capably deliver toxins with a blowgun. Your blowgun
Strikes can apply injury poisons even if they deal no damage
due to a creature’s resistance. If you critically succeed at
an attack roll using a blowgun loaded with a dart you’ve
poisoned and the target rolls a failure on the poison’s initial
save, the target critically fails instead.
2ND LEVEL
DEMOLITION CHARGE
FEAT 2
ALCHEMIST
You can rig your bombs to inanimate objects in order
to cause destruction to the surrounding area. As an
activity that takes 1 minute, you attach between
one and four bombs to an inanimate object within your
Advanced Player's Guide
106
106
