Familiar Abilities
Accompanist: Your familiar helps you perform. Whenever
you attempt a Performance check, if your familiar is nearby
and can act, it accompanies you with chirps, claps, or its own
miniature instrument. This grants you a +1 circumstance
bonus, or +2 if you’re a master in Performance.
Focused Rejuvenation: When you Refocus, you generate
magical energy that heals your familiar. Your familiar
regains 1 Hit Point per level whenever you Refocus.
Independent: In an encounter, if you don’t Command
your familiar, it still gains 1 action each round. Typically,
you still decide how it spends that action, but, the GM
might determine that your familiar chooses its own tactics
rather than performing your preferred action.
Master’s Form: Your familiar can change shape as a single
action, transforming into a humanoid of your ancestry with
the same age, gender, and build of its true form, though it
always maintains a clearly unnatural remnant of its nature,
such as a cat’s eyes or a serpent’s tongue. This form is always
the same each time it uses this ability. This otherwise uses
the effects of humanoid form, except the change is purely
cosmetic. It only appears humanoid and gains no new
capabilities. Your familiar must have the manual dexterity
and speech abilities to select this.
Partner in Crime: Your familiar is your criminal
associate. Despite being a minion, your familiar gains 1
reaction at the start of its turns, which it can use only to
Aid you on a Deception or Thievery skill check (it still has
to prepare to help you as normal for the Aid reaction). It
automatically succeeds at its check to Aid you with those
skills or automatically critically succeeds if you’re a master
of the skill in question.
Plant Form: Your plant familiar can change shape as
a single action, transforming into a Tiny plant of a type
roughly similar to the familiar’s nature. This otherwise uses
the effects of tree shape. You must have a familiar with the
plant trait, such as a leshy, to select this ability.
Poison Reservoir: Your homunculus familiar has a
reservoir for poison, allowing it to apply an injury poison
to an adjacent ally’s exposed weapon with a single Interact
action. You must supply the poison and instill it into this
reservoir using two consecutive Interact actions. You must
have a homunculus familiar to select this ability.
Resistance: Choose two of the following: acid, cold,
electricity, fire, poison, or sonic. Your familiar gains resistance
equal to half your level against the chosen damage types.
Skilled: Choose a skill other than Acrobatics or Stealth.
Your familiar’s modifier for that skill is equal to your level
plus your key spellcasting ability modifier, rather than just
your level. You can select this ability repeatedly, choosing a
different skill each time.
Spellcasting: Choose a spell in your repertoire
or that you prepared today that is at least 5
levels lower than your highest-level spell slot. Your
familiar can Cast that Spell once per day using your
magical tradition, spell attack modifier, and spell
DC. If the spell has a drawback that affects the
caster, both you and your familiar are affected. You
must be able to cast 6th-level spells using spell slots
to select this ability.
Toolbearer: Your familiar can carry a set of tools of
up to light Bulk. So long as your familiar is adjacent to
you, you can draw and replace the tools as part of the action
that uses them as if you were wearing them. Your familiar
must have the manual dexterity ability to select this.
Touch Telepathy: Your familiar can telepathically
communicate with you via touch. If it also has the
speech ability, it can telepathically communicate via
touch with any creature if they share a language.
FAMILIARS
This section includes additional options for both familiar and master abilities,
supplementing those from the Core Rulebook, as well as stat blocks for specific familiars
with unique abilities.
Advanced Player's Guide
146
146
