damage equal to your Charisma modifier. This applies only
to the damage the reaction itself deals to the triggering
creature, not the damage you deal with subsequent Strikes.
EXALT
11TH
Your champion’s reaction improves in the following
ways when you gain the exalt class feature at 11th level.
These affect enemies rather than allies, as they exalt
your dark god to bring pain upon your foes instead of
uplifting your companions.
Tyrant: When you use Iron Command, each enemy
within 15 feet of you other than the triggering creature
must also either drop prone or take mental damage (the
enemy chooses). These creatures take only minimum
damage (typically 3 damage at 11th level, 4 at 12th, 5 at
16th, and 6 at 19th), and the effects they take can’t be
adjusted by anything that changes your Iron Command.
For instance, the Iron Repercussions feat couldn’t turn
the damage into persistent mental damage for creatures
other than the triggering creature.
Desecrator: When you use Selfish Shield, each enemy
within 15 feet of you takes a –1 status penalty to attack
rolls against you until the start of your next turn.
Antipaladin: When you use Destructive Vengeance,
each enemy within 15 feet of you other than the
triggering creature takes half the damage you deal to the
triggering enemy, of the same damage type you chose.
Champion Feats
1ST LEVEL
DESPERATE PRAYER [free-action]
FEAT 1
CHAMPION
Frequency once per day
Trigger You begin your turn and have no Focus Points in
your pool.
You call out to your deity in a plea for their aid. You instantly
recover 1 Focus Point.
IRON REPERCUSSIONS
FEAT 1
UNCOMMON
CHAMPION
Prerequisites tyrant cause
Disobeying your Iron Command has lasting consequences.
If an enemy refuses to kneel to you, you can deal persistent
mental damage instead of normal mental damage. You must
decide whether the mental damage will be persistent before
your enemy chooses whether to kneel or not. The amount of
damage is unchanged.
ONGOING SELFISHNESS
FEAT 1
UNCOMMON
CHAMPION
Prerequisites desecrator cause
Your powerful personality and incredible ego demand that
you protect yourself above all else. After you use Selfish
Shield, you gain resistance to all further damage from the
triggering enemy until the end of the turn on which you
used the reaction. This resistance is equal to half your Selfish
Shield resistance.
VICIOUS VENGEANCE
FEAT 1
UNCOMMON
CHAMPION
Prerequisites antipaladin cause
While your vengeance is painful for both you and your
foe, none can doubt that your enemies suffer more. You
gain a circumstance bonus to the damage you deal from
Destructive Vengeance equal to the number of damage dice
from the reaction. This only applies to the damage the enemy
takes, not the damage to yourself or the extra damage you
gain after using the reaction.
2ND LEVEL
CONCEITED MINDSET
FEAT 2
UNCOMMON
CHAMPION
Prerequisites tenets of evil
Because you know your mind is superior, you scoff at anyone
who would alter your mental state—but this hubris gets the
better of you when you’re wrong. You gain a +2 circumstance
bonus to saves against mental effects. If you succeed at a
save against a mental effect, you critically succeed instead;
similarly, if you fail at a save against a mental effect, you
critically fail instead.
ESOTERIC OATH
FEAT 2
CHAMPION
OATH
Prerequisites tenets of good
You’ve sworn an oath to slay the alien abominations that lurk
in the remote corners of Golarion. Add the following tenet
to your champion’s code, after the other tenets. “You must
slay evil aberrations you encounter as long as you have a
reasonable chance of success.”
Your Retributive Strike gains a +4 circumstance bonus to
damage against an evil aberration, or +6 if you have master
proficiency with the weapon you used. The resistance you
gain from Glimpse of Redemption against damage from
an evil aberration is 7 + your level. If you use Liberating
Step triggered by an evil aberration, your ally gains a +4
circumstance bonus to checks granted by your Liberating
Step, and the ally can Step twice afterward.
You don’t consider evil aberrations to be legitimate
authorities, even in nations they rule.
LIGHTSLAYER OATH
FEAT 2
UNCOMMON
CHAMPION
OATH
Prerequisites tenets of evil
You’ve sworn to rid the world of the self-righteousness
of celestial beings. Add the following tenet to your code,
after the other tenets. “You must banish or slay celestials
you encounter as long as you have a reasonable chance of
success; in the incredibly unlikely event you find an evil
celestial, you don’t have to banish or kill it.”
Advanced Player's Guide
118
118
