Sorcerer Bloodlines
The following new bloodlines are available to sorcerers
at 1st level. New bloodline spells begin on page 235.
GENIE
Through lineage, magic, or wishes made real, the blood
of a noble genie flows through your veins.
Spell List arcane
Bloodline Skills Arcana, Deception
Granted Spells cantrip: detect magic; 1st: illusory disguise;
2nd: variable (see Genie Type below); 3rd: enthrall; 4th:
creation; 5th: variable (see Genie Type below); 6th: true
seeing; 7th: energy aegis; 8th: variable (see Genie Type
below); 9th: resplendent mansion
Bloodline Spells initial: genie’s veil; advanced: heart’s desire;
greater: wish-twisted form
Blood Magic Your spellcasting warps reality and distracts
your foes. Either you gain a +1 status bonus to Deception
checks for 1 round, or a target takes a –1 status penalty to
Perception for 1 round.
Genie Type
At 1st level, choose the type of genie that influenced
your bloodline: janni, djinni, efreeti, marid, or shaitan.
You can’t change your genie type later. This determines
what granted spells you receive at 2nd, 5th, and
8th level.
• Janni 2nd: create food; 5th: banishment; 8th:
scintillating pattern
• Djinni 2nd: invisibility; 5th: illusory scene; 8th:
punishing winds
• Efreeti 2nd: enlarge; 5th: elemental form (fire
only); 8th: maze
• Marid 2nd: water walk; 5th: control water; 8th:
horrid wilting
• Shaitan 2nd: glitterdust; 5th: wall of stone; 8th:
earthquake
NYMPH
One of your ancestors was inspired by a nymph, or
perhaps was a nymph themself, and now the beauty of
nature lives in you.
Spell List primal
Bloodline Skills Diplomacy, Nature
Granted Spells cantrip: tanglefoot; 1st: charm; 2nd: calm
emotions; 3rd: animal vision; 4th: vital beacon; 5th: crushing
despair; 6th: repulsion; 7th: unfettered pack; 8th: moment of
renewal; 9th: overwhelming presence
Bloodline Spells initial: nymph’s token; advanced: blinding
beauty; greater: establish ward
Blood Magic Nymph grace accentuates your movements
and distracts your foes, either granting you a +1 status
bonus to Diplomacy checks for 1 round or imposing a –1
status penalty on one target’s Will saves for 1 round.
PSYCHOPOMP
For good or ill, your ancestors’ deeds drew the attention
of psychopomps, or you might somehow count one in
your family tree. The presence of these shepherds of souls
and enemies of undeath has left an indelible mark on you.
Spell List divine
Bloodline Skills Intimidation, Religion
Granted Spells cantrip: disrupt undead; 1st: heal; 2nd: calm
emotions; 3rd: searing light; 4th: dimensional anchor; 5th:
death ward; 6th: spirit blast; 7th: finger of death; 8th:
spirit song; 9th: massacre
Bloodline Spells initial: sepulchral mask; advanced: spirit
veil; greater: shepherd of souls
Blood Magic The border between life and death becomes
blurred to you. Either you gain a +2 status bonus to
Fortitude saving throws for 1 round, or a target takes
1 damage per spell level. The damage is negative if the
target is living or positive if the target is undead. If the
spell already deals that type of damage, combine it with
the spell’s initial damage before determining weaknesses
and resistances.
SHADOW
Whether due to a velstrac’s manipulations or a planar
jaunt gone horribly wrong, your bloodline was infused
with a vein of shadow.
Spell List occult
Bloodline Skills Occultism, Stealth
Granted Spells cantrip: chill touch; 1st: grim tendrils; 2nd:
darkness; 3rd: chilling darkness; 4th: phantasmal killer; 5th:
shadow siphon; 6th: collective transposition; 7th: duplicate
foe; 8th: disappearance; 9th: weird
Bloodline Spells initial: dim the light; advanced: steal
shadow; greater: consuming darkness
Blood Magic Shadows grow deeper around you or one target,
either granting a +1 status bonus to Stealth or imposing a –1
status penalty to Perception for 1 round.
SORCERER
This section presents new sorcerer feats, as well as four new bloodlines
to fuel your sorcery: that of the wishbound arcane genie, the entrancing
primal nymph, the mysterious divine psychopomp, and the tenebrous
occult shadow.
Advanced Player's Guide
138
138
