electricity, fire, negative, piercing, slashing, or sonic. The effect
is based on the target’s Fortitude save.
Critical Success The target is unaffected.
Success The target gains weakness 2 to the chosen damage
type until the end of your next turn.
Failure As success, but the duration is 1 minute. If the creature
is reduced to 0 HP by the chosen damage and its level is 7
or less, it dies.
Critical Failure As failure, but the duration is unlimited.
Heightened (+2) The weakness increases by 1, and the
maximum level of creature that can be automatically killed
increases by 4.
SECRET CHEST
SPELL 5
CONJURATION
Traditions arcane, occult
Cast 1 minute (material, somatic, verbal)
Range touch; Targets 1 container and its contents, totaling 10
Bulk or less
Duration until the next time you make your daily preparations
You banish a container and its contents to the Ethereal Plane,
where you can retrieve it from later. The container’s physical
properties—the material from which it is made, any locks, or
other features—are irrelevant to the casting of this spell, but the
container can’t contain any creatures. When you Cast this Spell,
the container and all its contents are transported to a random
location deep in the Ethereal Plane. Time passes normally for
the container and its contents, and the environmental effects
of the Ethereal Plane apply to it. Though very unlikely, it’s
possible for a creature on the Ethereal Plane to stumble upon
the chest.
You can Dismiss the spell to return the chest to your current
location. If the spell ends by any other means, the container is
lost on the Ethereal Plane and you can no longer recall it with
this spell, though you could search for it in other ways.
SPIKE STONES
SPELL 4
CONJURATION
EARTH
Traditions primal
Cast [three-actions] material, somatic, verbal
Range 60 feet; Area 20-foot burst
Duration 1 hour
Long, sharp spikes of solid rock thrust up from the ground in the
area. The area becomes difficult terrain and hazardous terrain.
A creature that moves on the ground through the area takes
3 piercing damage for every square of that area it moves into.
Heightened (+1) Increase the damage by 1.
SPIRIT SENSE
SPELL 2
DETECTION
DIVINATION
MENTAL
Traditions divine, occult
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal
Area 30-foot emanation
Duration 10 minutes
Spells
5
225
225
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Archetypes
Feats
Spells
items
glossary
& index
