ORACLE FEATS
Use this table to look up oracle
feats by name.
Feat
Level
Advanced Revelation
6
Bespell Weapon
4
Blaze of Revelation
18
Cantrip Expansion
2
Debilitating Dichotomy
8
Diverse Mystery
16
Divine Access
4
Divine Aegis
2
Divine Effusion
18
Domain Acumen
2
Domain Fluency
12
Forestall Curse
14
Glean Lore
1
Greater Revelation
12
Magic Sense
12
Mysterious Repertoire
14
Mystery Conduit
20
Oracular Providence
20
Oracular Warning
10
Paradoxical Mystery
20
Portentous Spell
16
Quickened Casting
10
Reach Spell
1
Read Disaster
8
Spiritual Sense
6
Steady Spellcasting
6
Surging Might
10
Vision of Weakness
4
Widen Spell
1
than 3 Focus Points. The full rules for focus spells appear on page 300 of the
Core Rulebook.
Revelation spells have the cursebound trait, unlike other focus spells. This trait
means they increase the severity of your oracular curse (see below) when cast. You
can’t cast a cursebound spell if you don’t have an oracular curse.
You learn two revelation spells at 1st level. The first is an initial revelation spell
determined by your mystery. The second is an initial domain spell you select from
one of the domains associated with your mystery, which you cast as a revelation
spell, causing it to gain the cursebound trait.
oraCular CurSe
Drawing on multiple disparate sources of power inevitably places an incredible
stress on your body, manifesting as a supernatural curse. The more revelation spells
you cast, the worse the effects of your curse, but these increasingly conflicting
energies can also provide you with divine benefits.
The specific effects of your curse are tied to your mystery, but all curses follow the
same progression. A curse continually gives you a mild but constant reminder that
you carry otherworldly power. As you cast revelation spells, your curse intensifies,
first to a minor effect and then to a moderate effect.
Your curse progresses to its minor stage the first time you finish casting a revelation
spell after your daily preparations. Once your minor curse has manifested, it
remains in effect until you rest for 8 hours and again make your daily preparations.
If you cast a revelation spell while your minor curse is in effect, you progress to
the moderate curse effect immediately after you finish Casting the Spell. The minor
effect continues to affect you, though some moderate curse effects might alter the
specifics of your minor curse. At higher levels, you can cast more revelation spells,
progressing your curse to its major stage and then an extreme stage; these stronger
curses are cumulative with the effects of the lower stages and can alter them. When
you Refocus while under the effects of your moderate or stronger curse, you reduce
your curse’s severity to minor in addition to regaining a Focus Point.
Drawing upon your mystery’s power while your curse is at its worst causes an
irreconcilable conflict between you and the sources of your power. Immediately after
casting a revelation spell while under the moderate effect of your curse, you are
overwhelmed. While overwhelmed, you can’t Cast or Sustain any revelation spells—
you effectively lose access to those spells. You can still Refocus to reduce the effects
of your curse and regain a Focus Point, but doing so doesn’t allow you to cast further
revelation spells. These effects last until you rest for 8 hours and make your daily
preparations, at which point your curse returns to its basic state. At higher levels,
you can grow to withstand your curse’s major and even extreme effects, enabling
you to cast more revelation spells without becoming overwhelmed.
Your curse has the curse, divine, and necromancy traits. You can’t mitigate, reduce,
or remove the effects of your oracular curse by any means other than Refocusing and
resting for 8 hours. For example, if your curse makes creatures concealed from you,
you can’t negate that concealed condition through a magic item or spell, such as true
strike (though you would still benefit from the other effects of that item or spell).
Likewise, remove curse and similar spells don’t affect your curse at all.
ORACLE FEATS
2ND
At 2nd level and every 2 levels thereafter, you gain an oracle class feat.
SKILL FEATS
2ND
At 2nd level and every 2 levels thereafter, you gain a skill feat. You must be trained
or better in the corresponding skill to select a skill feat.
GENERAL FEATS
3RD
At 3rd level and every 4 levels thereafter, you gain a general feat.
Advanced Player's Guide
70
70
