The following common backgrounds supplement those
found in the Core Rulebook and are available to any
character during character creation. Some of these
backgrounds grant skill feats from Chapter 4 of this book.
BANDIT
BACKGROUND
Your past includes no small amount of rural banditry, robbing
travelers on the road and scraping by. Whether your robbery
was sanctioned by a local noble or you did so of your own
accord, you eventually got caught up in the adventuring life.
Now, adventure is your stock and trade, and years of camping
and skirmishing have only helped.
Choose two ability boosts. One must be to Dexterity or
Charisma, and one is a free ability boost.
You’re trained in the Intimidation skill and a Lore skill
related to the terrain you worked in (such as Desert Lore or
Plains Lore). You gain the Group Coercion skill feat.
BARBER
BACKGROUND
Haircuts, dentistry, bloodletting, and surgery—if it takes a
steady hand and a razor, you do it. You may have taken to the
road to expand your skills, or to test yourself against a world
that leaves your patients so battered and bruised.
Choose two ability boosts. One must be to Dexterity or
Wisdom, and one is a free ability boost.
You’re trained in the Medicine skill and the Surgery Lore
skill. You gain the Risky Surgery skill feat (page 208).
BOOKKEEPER
BACKGROUND
You ran the numbers on a large farm, for a merchant’s endeavors,
or with a major guild in the city. You kept track of expenses,
payroll, profits, and anything else that had to do with money,
for better or worse. If better, you might be adventuring to learn
how others ply this trade. If worse, you may be fleeing from
impending consequences, in the hope that no one finds you.
Choose two ability boosts. One must be to Intelligence or
Wisdom, and one is a free ability boost.
You’re trained in the Society skill and the Accounting Lore
skill. You gain the Eye for Numbers skill feat (page 206).
COOK
BACKGROUND
You grew up in the kitchens of a tavern or other dining
establishment and excelled there, becoming an exceptional
cook. Baking, cooking, a little brewing on the side—you’ve
spent lots of time out of sight. It’s about time you went out
into the world to catch some sights for yourself.
COMMON BACKGROUNDS
Your character’s abilities don’t spring into existence at the moment they take up the
adventuring life. Their background—the role they had before they became an adventurer—
also provides a number of abilities. Most backgrounds are common and can be selected
by any character, but some adventurers come from more distinctive roots. The particular
histories behind these rare backgrounds provide specialized benefits.
Choose two ability boosts. One must be to Constitution or
Intelligence, and one is a free ability boost.
You’re trained in the Survival skill and the Cooking Lore
skill. You gain the Seasoned skill feat (page 209).
COURIER
BACKGROUND
In your youth, you earned coin running messages for persons
of wealth and influence, darting through crowded cobblestone
streets. Your dogged commitment to deliver your message
was good training for the life of an adventurer.
Choose two ability boosts. One must be to Dexterity or
Intelligence, and one is a free ability boost.
You’re trained in the Society skill and the Lore skill for the
city in which you were raised. You gain the Glean Contents
skill feat (page 206).
CULTIST
BACKGROUND
You were (or still are) a member of a cult whose rites may
involve sacred dances to ensure a strong harvest or dire
rituals that call upon dark powers. You might have taken up
adventuring to further your cult’s aims, to initiate yourself
into the world’s grander mysteries, or to flee unsavory
practices or strictures.
Choose two ability boosts. One must be to Intelligence or
Charisma, and one is a free ability boost.
You’re trained in the Occultism skill and the Lore skill related
to your deity or cult. You gain the Schooled in Secrets skill feat
(page 208).
INSURGENT
BACKGROUND
You were more than a rebel; you were a revolutionary, fighting
for the promise of a new or better country. You may or may
not still believe in the cause, or perhaps victory or exile has led
you on this new journey to trumpet your glory... or to escape
the consequences of your defeat.
Choose two ability boosts. One must be to Strength or
Wisdom, and one is a free ability boost.
You’re trained in the Deception skill and the Warfare Lore
skill. You gain the Lengthy Diversion skill feat.
OUTRIDER
BACKGROUND
In your youth, you galloped on horseback over vast prairies,
serving as a vanguard for your settlement, an army, or
another group. Seeing so many different lands built a thirst
in you to adventure and explore the world instead of just
racing past it.
Advanced Player's Guide
48
48
