You gain the aasimar trait, in addition to the traits from
your ancestry. You also gain low-light vision, or you gain
darkvision if your ancestry already has low-light vision.
You can choose from aasimar feats and feats from your
ancestry whenever you gain an ancestry feat.
AASIMAR FEATS
1ST LEVEL
ANGELKIN
FEAT 1
AASIMAR
LINEAGE
You descend from an angel—a winged messenger from Nirvana
or one of the other celestial realms—which gives you a knack for
cultures and languages. You gain the trained proficiency rank in
Society. If you would automatically become trained in Society
(from your background or class, for example), you instead
become trained in a skill of your choice. You know the Celestial
language, and you gain the Multilingual skill feat.
CELESTIAL EYES
FEAT 1
AASIMAR
Prerequisites low-light vision
You can see through darkness. You gain darkvision.
Special You can select this feat only at 1st level, and you
can’t retrain into or out of this feat.
CELESTIAL LORE
FEAT 1
AASIMAR
You were raised with an aasimar or celestial relative, or
you’ve devoted yourself to researching the secrets of the
celestial realms. You gain the trained proficiency rank
in Diplomacy and Religion. If you would automatically
become trained in one of those skills (from your
background or class, for example), you instead become
trained in a skill of your choice. You also become
trained in a Lore skill related to the celestial realm
from which you trace your lineage (usually Elysium
Lore, Heaven Lore, or Nirvana Lore).
HALO
FEAT 1
AASIMAR
You are surrounded by a halo of light and goodness at all
times. Your halo sheds light with the effects of a divine light
cantrip. A cantrip is heightened to a spell level equal to half
your level rounded up. You can suppress or reestablish the
halo with a single action, which has the concentrate trait.
LAWBRINGER
FEAT 1
AASIMAR
LINEAGE
You trace your lineage to archons: embodiments of heavenly
virtues, guardians of the seven-tiered mountain of Heaven,
and nurturers of law and virtue within mortals. Your own
virtue and orderly mind protect you from foes who would
turn your emotions against you. You gain a +1 circumstance
bonus to saves against emotion effects, and if you roll a
success on a save against an emotion effect, you get a
critical success instead.
MUSETOUCHED
FEAT 1
AASIMAR
LINEAGE
Your blood sings with the liberating power of the azatas,
living embodiments of freedom from the wild realm of
Elysium. You gain a +1 circumstance bonus to Escape. When
you roll a critical failure on a check to Escape, you get a
failure instead, and when you roll a success, you get a critical
success instead.
Ancestries & Backgrounds
1
35
35
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Archetypes
Feats
Spells
items
glossary
& index
