until you receive the effects of a successful atone ritual using
the Nature skill. The exact limitation is up to you and the GM,
but the most common requirement is that you must fulfill a
single request from any fey who knows your name.
Fey’s Fortune [free-action] (concentrate, fortune) Frequency once per day;
Trigger You attempt a skill check and haven’t yet rolled;
Effect Roll the skill check twice and use the better result.
HAUNTED
BACKGROUND
RARE
You are followed by a spirit or entity, either from childhood
or since a traumatic or momentous event. You may have seen
this entity. Others may have seen it as well. You have studied
esoteric subjects trying to understand your situation, but this
presence in your life remains a mystery. Whatever this entity
is or wants, it influences your life in subtle ways, not always
good. Sometimes the entity helps you, but at other times, its
influence is malevolent or harmful. The entity is most likely to
surface in stressful situations.
Choose two ability boosts. One must be to Wisdom or
Charisma, and one is a free ability boost.
You are trained in Occultism and an additional skill in which
the haunting entity is well-versed, determined by the GM. Any
time you attempt a skill check for the entity’s skill, the GM can
offer you a +1 circumstance bonus to the check, as though the
entity were Aiding you. If you accept but fail the check, you
are frightened 2 (frightened 4 on a critical failure). The initial
frightened value can’t be reduced by effects that would reduce
or prevent the condition (such as a fighter’s bravery).
RETURNED
BACKGROUND
RARE
You died and miraculously returned with knowledge of the
realms beyond death and a stronger link to life. Some dead and
undead souls might feel a strange, instinctual kinship with you.
Choose two ability boosts. One must be to Constitution or
Wisdom, and one is a free ability boost.
You gain the Diehard feat and the Additional Lore feat for
Boneyard Lore.
ROYALTY
BACKGROUND
RARE
You are a prominent member of a royal family. You have taken
up the life of an adventurer—perhaps you’re a deposed queen
hoping to regain her throne, a prince seeking a more exciting
life, or a princess on a secret mission.
Choose two ability boosts. One must be to Intelligence or
Charisma, and one is a free ability boost.
You are trained in Society. You gain the Courtly Graces skill
feat and can influence commoners in your family’s territory, as
well as nobility anywhere. If you later gain the Connections skill
feat, you automatically have common and noble connections
within any community in your royal family’s territory and have
noble connections in large communities outside your territory.
Ancestries & Backgrounds
1
5151
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Archetypes
Feats
Spells
items
glossary
& index
