RARITY
Uncommon
HIT POINTS
6
SIZE
Medium
SPEED
25 feet
ABILITY BOOSTS
Dexterity
Free
LANGUAGES
Common
Tengu
Additional languages equal to your
Intelligence modifier (if positive).
Choose from Dwarven, Elven, Halfling,
Gnomish, Goblin, Sylvan, and any other
languages to which you have access
(such as the languages prevalent in
your region).
TRAITS
Humanoid
Tengu
LOW-LIGHT VISION
You can see in dim light as though it
were bright light, and you ignore the
concealed condition due to dim light.
SHARP BEAK
With your sharp beak, you are never
without a weapon. You have a beak
unarmed attack that deals 1d6 piercing
damage. Your beak is in the brawling
weapon group and has the finesse and
unarmed traits.
and sharing the work of the household. In cities, a community may also contain
members of other ancestries. Tengu children raised in the same unit consider each
other siblings, usually forgetting which of them share a biological connection.
The greatest divide in tengu society is between tengus remaining in their
ancestral home and those who have dispersed across the world. Tengus refer
to these two groups as those “in the roost” and those “migrating,” respectively.
Roosted tengus tend to be more traditionalist and conservative and are especially
concerned with preserving their culture in the face of years of erosion from
oppression. Migrating tengus, on the other hand, voraciously absorb the culture
of the various nations and settlements that they now call home.
ALIGNMENT AND RELIGION
Tengus often follow the faith of the region in which they were raised, though the
tengu ancestral deity is the storm god Hei Feng. This god’s notorious drunken
carousing and emotional swings causes many tengus to instead focus their
attention on gods of freedom and travel, such as Desna or Cayden Cailean, or
deities of nature, such as Gozreh. Besmara is also a common subject of tengu
worship, especially among tengus who live on the sea. More about Besmara
and Hei Feng can be found in Lost Omens Gods and Magic (pages 55 and 63).
Before their diaspora, tengus practiced a syncretic faith that blended a
polytheistic worship of the deities responsible for creating the natural world.
As tengu folklore posits that tengus long ago descended from the night sky
on shooting stars to rest upon Golarion’s highest peaks, animist rites were
practiced on mountains and other great natural features. Even today, tengus
rarely differentiate between divine and primal worship.
Tengus are far more concerned with the balance between traditionalism and
adaptability than they are with good and evil, with lawful tengus more common
among the roosted and chaotic tengus more common among the migratory.
NAMES
Though roosted tengus tend toward more traditional names with the hard
consonants often seen in the Tengu language, migrating tengus’ tendency to
readily absorb and repurpose the culture of those around them has led to names
that combine elements of whatever languages suited the namer’s fancy.
Sample NameS
Arkkak, Chuko, Dolgra, Dorodara, Kakkariel, Kora, Marrak, Mossarah,
Pularrka, Rarorel, Ruk, Tak-Tak, Tsukotarra
Tengu Heritages
As a fluid people scattered from their original homes, there are a wide variety
of tengus on Golarion. Choose one of the following tengu heritages at 1st level.
JINXED TENGU
Your lineage has been exposed to curse after curse, and now, they slide off your
feathers like rain. If you succeed at a saving throw against a curse or misfortune
effect, you get a critical success instead. When you would gain the doomed
condition, attempt a DC 17 flat check. On a success, reduce the value of the
doomed condition you would gain by 1.
MOUNTAINKEEPER TENGU
You come from a line of tengu ascetics, leaving you with a link to the spirits
of the world and the Great Beyond. You can cast the disrupt undead cantrip
as a primal innate spell at will. A cantrip is heightened to a spell level equal to
half your level rounded up. Each time you cast a spell from a tengu heritage or
ancestry feat, you can decide whether it’s a divine or primal spell.
Ancestries & Backgrounds
1
25
25
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Archetypes
Feats
Spells
items
glossary
& index
