Archer
Bows of all types are powerful weapons. Generals and
hunters alike recognize the power in dealing death from
long distances, and from behind cover. Those dedicated to
the bow—from mysterious cloaked strangers to heartless
snipers—are often viewed with a mixture of respect and
fear. Like any weapon adept, the archer’s skill is forged
through experience and constant practice. A true archer
becomes one with the bow and is able to accomplish with
that weapon things that most would consider impossible,
or at least nearly magical.
Additional Feats: 4th Assisting Shot (Core Rulebook
145), Point-Blank Shot (Core Rulebook 144); 6th Double
Shot (Core Rulebook 146), Parting Shot (page 126),
Running Reload (Core Rulebook 172); 8th Triple Shot (Core
Rulebook 149); 10th Mobile Shot Stance (Core Rulebook
149); 18th Multishot Stance (Core Rulebook 153)
ARCHER DEDICATION
FEAT 2
ARCHETYPE
DEDICATION
You become trained in all simple and martial weapons in
the bow weapon group. Whenever you gain a class feature
that grants you expert or greater proficiency in certain
weapons, you also gain that proficiency rank in all simple
and martial weapons in the bow weapon group. If you are
at least an expert in the bow you are using, you
gain access to the critical specialization effect
with that bow.
Special You can’t select another dedication feat until you
have gained two other feats from the archer archetype.
QUICK SHOT [one-action]
FEAT 4
ARCHETYPE
OPEN
Prerequisites Archer Dedication
You draw your bow and attack with the same action. You
Interact to draw a weapon from the bow weapon group that is
loaded or has reload 0, then Strike with that weapon.
ADVANCED BOW TRAINING
FEAT 6
ARCHETYPE
Prerequisites Archer Dedication
Through constant practice and the crucible of experience, you
increase your skill with advanced bows. You gain proficiency
with all advanced bows as if they were martial weapons in the
bow weapon group.
CROSSBOW TERROR
FEAT 6
ARCHETYPE
Prerequisites Archer Dedication
You are a dynamo with the crossbow. You gain a +2
circumstance bonus to damage with crossbows. If the
crossbow is a simple weapon, also increase the damage die
size for your attacks made with that crossbow by one step. As
normal, this damage die increase can’t be combined with other
abilities that alter the weapon damage die (such as the ranger
feat Crossbow Ace).
ARCHER’S AIM [two-actions]
FEAT 8
ARCHETYPE
CONCENTRATE
Prerequisites Archer Dedication
You slow down, focus, and take a careful shot. Make a ranged
Strike with a weapon in the bow weapon group.
You gain a +2 circumstance bonus to the
attack roll and ignore the target’s concealed
condition. If the target is hidden, reduce the
flat check from being hidden from 11 to 5.
Archetypes
3
157
157
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Archetypes
Feats
Spells
items
glossary
& Index
