Failure You recall incorrect information or gain an erroneous
or misleading clue.
Critical Failure You recall two pieces of incorrect information
or gain two erroneous or misleading clues.
REACH SPELL [one-action]
FEAT 1
CONCENTRATE
METAMAGIC
ORACLE
You can extend your spells’ range. If the next action you use is
to Cast a Spell that has a range, increase that spell’s range by
30 feet. As is standard for increasing spell ranges, if the spell
normally has a range of touch, you extend its range to 30 feet.
WIDEN SPELL [one-action]
FEAT 1
MANIPULATE
METAMAGIC
ORACLE
You manipulate the energy of your spell, causing it to affect a
wider area. If the next action you use is to Cast a Spell that has
an area of a burst, cone, or line and doesn’t have a duration,
increase the area of that spell. Add 5 feet to the radius of a
burst that normally has a radius of at least 10 feet (a burst
with a smaller radius isn’t affected). Add 5 feet to the length
of a cone or line that is normally 15 feet long or smaller, and
add 10 feet to the length of a larger cone or line.
2ND LEVEL
CANTRIP EXPANSION
FEAT 2
ORACLE
Study broadens your range of simple spells. Add two additional
cantrips from your spell list to your repertoire.
DIVINE AEGIS [reaction]
FEAT 2
ABJURATION
DIVINE
ORACLE
Trigger You attempt a saving throw against a magical effect,
but you haven’t rolled yet.
You summon divine energy to shield yourself, offering
protection against other traditions but leaving you exposed
to other divine effects. Until the beginning of your next turn,
you gain a +1 circumstance bonus to saving throws against
non-divine magical effects, but you also take a –1 circumstance
penalty to saves against divine effects.
DOMAIN ACUMEN
FEAT 2
ORACLE
Every oracle’s mystery touches on a divine domain of the
deities that fuel it; you can access that power. Choose one of
the domains associated with your mystery for which you don’t
already have an initial domain spell. You gain an initial domain
spell from that domain, which you cast as a revelation spell.
It gains the cursebound trait. Increase the number of Focus
Points in your focus pool by 1.
4TH LEVEL
BESPELL WEAPON [free-action]
FEAT 4
ORACLE
Frequency once per turn
Requirements Your most recent action was to cast a non-
cantrip spell.
You siphon the residual energy from the last spell you cast
into one weapon you’re wielding. Until the end of your turn,
the weapon deals an extra 1d6 damage of a type depending on
the school of the spell you just cast.
• Abjuration force damage
• Conjuration or Transmutation same type as the weapon
• Divination, Enchantment, or Illusion mental damage
• Evocation a type the spell dealt, or force damage if the
spell didn’t deal damage
• Necromancy negative damage
DIVINE ACCESS
FEAT 4
ORACLE
Your ability to tap into divine magic surpasses the spells
traditionally available to you (the divine spell list). Choose one
deity who grants one of your mystery’s granted domains. Add
up to three cleric spells of your choice granted by that deity to
your spell list. You can select from these spells when you add
or swap spells in your spell repertoire.
Special You can select this feat more than once. You can’t
choose the same spells more than once, but you can choose
a different domain or a different deity with the same domain
you’ve previously selected with this feat.
VISION OF WEAKNESS
FEAT 4
ORACLE
You can call upon divine insights to single out your foes’ weak
points. You learn the vision of weakness revelation spell (page
234). Increase the number of Focus Points in your focus pool by 1.
6TH LEVEL
ADVANCED REVELATION
FEAT 6
ORACLE
Prerequisites initial revelation spell
You learn an advanced revelation spell associated with your
mystery. Increase the number of Focus Points in your focus
pool by 1.
SPIRITUAL SENSE
FEAT 6
DIVINATION
DIVINE
ORACLE
You have a vague connection to the Ethereal Plane that
enables you to notice spirits. While you’re exploring but not
Searching, the GM rolls a secret check for you to find haunts
that usually require Searching, as well as spirits, creatures
on the Ethereal Plane, and beings made entirely of spiritual
essence such as celestials, fiends, and monitors.
You can also potentially notice ethereal creatures and
spirits inside solid objects, provided they are within 30 feet
of you. This applies while Searching, while Seeking, and on
the automatic secret check you gain while exploring even
if you aren’t Searching. You can still notice spirits only on a
successful check, and you can’t see them if they’re more than
5 feet inside an object.
Classes
2
79
79
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Archetypes
Feats
Spells
items
glossary
& index
