Duelist
Across the world, students in martial academies practice
with their blades to master one-on-one combat. The
libraries of such schools hold deep troves of information
detailing hundreds of combat techniques, battle stances,
and honorable rules of engagement. Those who gain
admission to such schools might train in formalized
duels—and that’s certainly the more genteel route to
take. However, others assert that there’s no better place
to try out dueling techniques than in the life-and-death
struggles common to an adventurer’s life.
Additional Feats: 4th Dueling Parry (Core Rulebook
146); 8th Disarming Stance (Core Rulebook 147); 10th
Dueling Riposte (Core Rulebook 149); 12th Disarming
Twist (Core Rulebook 150); 14th Dueling Dance (Core
Rulebook 151), Improved Dueling Riposte (Core Rulebook
151); 16th Guiding Riposte (Core Rulebook 151)
DUELIST DEDICATION
FEAT 2
ARCHETYPE
DEDICATION
Prerequisites trained in light armor and simple weapons
You are always ready to draw your weapon and begin a duel,
no matter the circumstances. You gain the Quick Draw ranger
feat (Core Rulebook 172), enabling you to both draw and
attack with a weapon as 1 action. This serves as Quick Draw
for the purpose of meeting prerequisites.
Special You cannot select another dedication feat
until you have gained two other feats from the duelist
archetype.
DUELIST’S CHALLENGE [one-action]
FEAT 4
ARCHETYPE
OPEN
Prerequisites Duelist Dedication
Select one foe that you can see and proclaim a challenge. That
foe is your dueling opponent until they are defeated, flee, or
the encounter ends. Any time you hit that enemy using a single
one-handed melee weapon while your other hand or hands are
free, you gain a circumstance bonus to the Strike’s damage
equal to the number of damage dice your weapon deals.
If you attack a creature other than your dueling opponent,
you take a circumstance penalty to damage equal to the
number of damage dice your weapon deals.
SELFLESS PARRY
FEAT 8
ARCHETYPE
Prerequisites Dueling Parry, Duelist Dedication
You protect those near you with a flash of steel. When
you’re benefiting from Dueling Parry, allies adjacent to
you gain a +1 circumstance bonus to AC. If you have
Dueling Riposte, you can use it when an enemy within
your reach critically fails a Strike against an ally
adjacent to you, not just against yourself.
STUDENT OF THE DUELING ARTS
FEAT 12
ARCHETYPE
Prerequisites Duelist Dedication
You have studied a great many combat techniques, which you
can review each day. During your daily preparations, you can
swap out any number of your duelist archetype feats for other
duelist archetype feats of the appropriate level for which you
are qualified. You can’t swap out Duelist Dedication or Student
of the Dueling Arts in this way.
In addition, you can enter a stance from a duelist archetype
feat you don’t have (such as one listed under Additional Feats)
by increasing the number of actions it takes to enter the
stance by 1 (typically to 2 actions). You must still meet the
feat’s prerequisites.
Archetypes
3
171
171
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Archetypes
Feats
Spells
items
glossary
& Index
