Mauler
You shove your way through legions of foes, knock
enemies on all sides to the ground, and deal massive blows
to anyone or anything that comes near.
Additional Feats: 4th Knockdown (Core Rulebook
146), Power Attack (Core Rulebook 144); 12th Improved
Knockdown (Core Rulebook 151); 14th Brutal Finish
(Core Rulebook 151), Unbalancing Sweep (page 111)
MAULER DEDICATION
FEAT 2
ARCHETYPE
DEDICATION
Prerequisites Strength 14
You specialize in weapons that require two hands. You become
trained in all simple and martial melee weapons that require two
hands to wield or have the two-hand trait. Whenever you gain
a class feature that grants you expert or greater proficiency in
weapons, you also gain that proficiency rank in these weapons.
If you are at least an expert in such a weapon, you gain access
to the critical specialization effect with that weapon.
Special You can’t select another dedication feat until you
have gained two other feats from the mauler archetype.
CLEAR THE WAY [two-actions]
FEAT 6
ARCHETYPE
Prerequisites Mauler Dedication
Requirements You’re wielding a melee weapon in two
hands.
You put your body behind your massive weapon and
swing, shoving enemies to clear a wide path. You
attempt to Shove up to five creatures adjacent to
you, rolling a separate Athletics check for each
target. Then Stride up to half your Speed. This
movement doesn’t trigger reactions from any of the
creatures you successfully Shoved.
SHOVING SWEEP [reaction]
FEAT 8
ARCHETYPE
Prerequisites Mauler Dedication, expert in Athletics
Trigger A creature within your reach leaves a square
during a move action it’s using.
Requirements You are wielding a melee weapon in two hands.
You swing your weapon at your foe, rebuffing them back.
You attempt to Shove the triggering creature, ignoring the
requirement that you have a hand free. The creature continues
its movement after the Shove.
HAMMER QUAKE [three-actions]
FEAT 14
ARCHETYPE
FLOURISH
OPEN
Prerequisites Mauler Dedication
Requirements You’re wielding a non-finesse melee weapon
in two hands.
You smash the ground with your weapon, knocking
nearby creatures to the ground. Choose a square within
your reach, including your own space. If there’s a foe in
the chosen square, Strike that foe with the required weapon.
Then attempt to Trip every foe in the chosen square plus each
square adjacent to that square, ignoring Trip’s requirement that
you have a hand free. This counts as three attacks toward your
multiple attack penalty, but the penalty doesn’t increase until
after you’ve made the Strike, if any, and all the Trip attempts.
AVALANCHE STRIKE [three-actions]
FEAT 16
ARCHETYPE
FLOURISH
OPEN
Prerequisites Mauler Dedication
Requirements You are wielding a melee weapon in
two hands.
You attack all nearby adversaries. Make a melee
Strike with the required weapon against
each enemy within your melee
reach. Each attack counts toward
your multiple attack penalty, but
don’t increase your penalty until
you have made all your attacks.
Archetypes
3
183
183
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Archetypes
Feats
Spells
items
glossary
& index
