Tiefling
When the influence of a demon, devil, or other fiend
infiltrates the bloodline of a mortal family, tieflings
are the inevitable result. Tieflings carry the sinister
mark of the fiendish planes upon their flesh, and their
specific abilities and physical qualities vary according to
their heritage. Hellspawn are those who descend from
devils, grimspawn hail from daemonic influences, and
pitborn bear the influence of demons, though these are
only the three most common among a wide variety of
tiefling lineages.
Generations might pass between a fiend’s direct
influence and the time a tiefling child is born. For
those born to ignorant or fearful parents, childhood is
particularly hard, but even those whose families accept
and nurture them face fear and prejudice from society
as a whole. In some cases, this rejection encourages a
tiefling to embrace the evil within their heritage, though
others carve out a place and live a fulfilling life despite the
challenges facing them.
If you want a character who is supernaturally infused
with sinister forces, might have a unique appearance, and
can fill the role of a complicated or unexpected hero, you
should play a tiefling.
YOU MIGHT...
• Have a strong sense of self-confidence born from a
life of having to rely on yourself.
• Feel a kinship with society’s underprivileged or
criminal elements, or even seek positions of power
on the wrong side of the law.
• Place incredible value on hard-won friendships and
hold these companions closer than your blood family.
OTHERS PROBABLY...
• Assume you’ve faced numerous challenges due to
your heritage.
• Mistake you for an evil agent of a sinister cult, a
fiend worshipper, or even a fiend yourself.
• Think you have associations with powerful fiends,
potentially trying to bargain with you for power of
their own.
PHYSICAL DESCRIPTION
Two tieflings, even siblings or twins, might not look
similar at all, for the influence of fiendish lineage manifests
in unique and unusual ways. These variations never make
a tiefling’s appearance so strange as to obscure their
humanoid ancestry, but horns, a forked tongue, vestigial
wings, a tail, or a cloven hoof in place of a foot are all
common and obvious signs of their heritage.
SOCIETY
Tieflings tend to adopt the society and culture they
were born into. Since most societies consider them to
be untrustworthy or even monstrous, tieflings typically
gravitate toward those segments of society willing to
overlook them entirely, or where their reputation can
assist rather than hinder them. With determination
and persistence, however, tieflings can earn respect and
prestige despite their heritage, finding people who accept
them as they are. In regions where worship of fiends is
widespread, tieflings can live more openly and achieve
great power and respect, although exceptions exist—in
the Asmodean nation of Cheliax, for example, tieflings
are seen as shameful proof of a failure to maintain control
in the face of fiendish influence, and as such are cast out.
ALIGNMENT AND RELIGION
A tiefling’s fiendish heritage doesn’t force evil or cruelty
into their being, and each tiefling ultimately chooses their
own faith, goals, and personality. But every tiefling feels
their forbear’s influence in the back of their mind, always
ready to tempt and goad when the world appears cruel
and unjust. That so many societies hate and fear tieflings
only pushes them further toward evil, and many tieflings
gravitate toward religions that value and admire fiends,
such as the churches of Asmodeus or Lamashtu. Tieflings
who choose a path of good face their own challenges,
finding they must be more diplomatic, understanding, and
patient than members of other ancestries since they are so
often faced with ignorance and suspicion. Such tieflings
embrace faiths and philosophies that uphold empathy
and eschew judgment, finding that even followers of good
faiths sometimes struggle to see past fiendish features.
TIEFLING (UNCOMMON HERITAGE)
You descend from fiends or bear the mark of the fiendish
realms, manifesting as some unusual feature that belies
your heritage, such as horns or a tail. You gain the tiefling
trait, in addition to the traits from your ancestry. You
also gain low-light vision, or you gain darkvision if your
ancestry already has low-light vision. You can choose
from tiefling feats and feats from your ancestry whenever
you gain an ancestry feat.
TIEFLING FEATS
The following feats are available to tiefling characters.
1ST LEVEL
FIENDISH EYES
FEAT 1
TIEFLING
Prerequisites low-light vision
You can see in the darkness as easily as a fiend. You gain
darkvision.
Special You can select this feat only at 1st level, and you
can’t retrain into or out of this feat.
FIENDISH LORE
FEAT 1
TIEFLING
You were raised by a tiefling or a fiendish relative, or you’ve
Ancestries & Backgrounds
1
39
39
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Archetypes
Feats
Spells
items
glossary
& index
