Viking
To go “a-viking” is to raid by sea, and thus vikings have
spread far and wide. Some have even settled in the very
communities they once raided. Vikings traditionally travel
in longboats; a score of these warriors might live aboard
their ship for days at a time, sailing the seas (or, as they call
it, the “whale-road”) to ambush coastal communities. Once
they arrive at a settlement, they charge ashore, plundering
all they can find and slaying anyone foolish enough to get in
their way. The ferocity of viking raids is legendary.
Additional Feats: 4th Reactive Shield (Core Rulebook
145); 6th Shielded Stride (Core Rulebook 146); 10th Quick
Shield Block (Core Rulebook 149)
VIKING DEDICATION
FEAT 2
ARCHETYPE
DEDICATION
Prerequisites trained in Athletics
Vikings spend long periods of time at sea, only to leap from
their boats at a moment’s notice, charge through the surf, and
take their enemies by storm. You’re trained in Sailing Lore.
When moving through water using your land Speed, you
ignore difficult terrain resulting from shallow water, such as in
bogs or on beaches. In addition, if you roll a success for your
Athletics check to Swim, you get a critical success instead.
Special You can’t select another dedication feat until you
have gained two other feats from the viking archetype.
HURLING CHARGE [two-actions]
FEAT 4
ARCHETYPE
Prerequisites Viking Dedication
You make a ranged Strike with a thrown weapon you already
have in your hand, Stride, and then Interact to draw another
weapon. If you are raging, you can add the additional damage
with melee weapons you receive from raging to your damage
with the thrown weapon.
VIKING WEAPON FAMILIARITY
FEAT 4
ARCHETYPE
Prerequisites Viking Dedication
From childhood, you have been exposed to traditional
viking weapons, and you soon learned to handle them in
battle. Now, you can raid proudly alongside your fellows.
You are trained with the battle axe, hatchet, longsword, and
shortsword. In addition, you gain the Shield Block reaction.
VIKING WEAPON SPECIALIST
FEAT 6
ARCHETYPE
Prerequisites Viking Weapon Familiarity
You are even more skilled in the weapons of your
people. You gain the critical specialization effects of
the battle axe, hatchet, longsword, and shortsword.
Whenever you gain a class feature that grants you
expert or greater proficiency in certain weapons,
you also gain that proficiency rank in the above
four weapons.
SECOND SHIELD [free-action]
FEAT 6
ARCHETYPE
Prerequisites Viking Dedication
Trigger Your Shield Block causes your shield to break or
be destroyed.
You’re used to your shield breaking in the middle of battle,
and you’re prepared to use a backup or any convenient
nearby object to defend yourself. You can Interact to draw
a shield on your person or an unattended shield within
your reach. If there is an object within your reach that could
serve as an improvised shield—for example, a table or chair—
you can Interact to draw it with this feat. The GM determines if
something can be used as an improvised shield. Your new shield
isn’t raised until you use the Raise a Shield action, as normal.
Advanced Player's Guide
198
198
