If your next action is to cast a witch cantrip or a witch spell
that is at least 2 levels lower than the highest-level witch
spell you can cast, reduce the number of actions to cast it by
1 (minimum 1 action).
TEMPORARY POTIONS
FEAT 10
WITCH
Prerequisites Cauldron
During your daily preparations, you can create a batch of two
temporary oils or potions using a formula you know. These
items follow the normal rules to Craft them, except for the time
they take, with some additional restrictions. They must both
be the same type of oil or potion, and their level must be 6 or
more levels lower than your level. Any items you create this
way become inert bottles of liquid the next time you make your
daily preparations, and any remaining effects of the temporary
items end. A temporary oil or potion has no value.
If you have master proficiency in your tradition’s spell DCs,
you can create a batch of three temporary oils or potions
during your daily preparations, and if you have legendary
proficiency, you can create a batch of four.
WITCH’S COMMUNION
FEAT 10
WITCH
Prerequisites Witch’s Charge
You can keep watch over multiple charges. Each day during
your preparations, you can designate a number of charges
equal to your Intelligence modifier instead of just one.
12TH LEVEL
FAMILIAR’S EYES [one-action]
FEAT 12
CONCENTRATE
DIVINATION
WITCH
Prerequisites a familiar
You use your familiar’s senses as easily as your own. You
project your senses into your familiar. When you do, you lose
all sensory information from your own body, but you can sense
through your familiar’s body until you Dismiss the effect.
While projecting your senses in this way, you can converse
telepathically with your familiar if it understands a language.
Special This feat has the trait corresponding to the tradition
of spells you cast (arcane, divine, occult, or primal).
HEX FOCUS
FEAT 12
WITCH
Your patron’s teachings have allowed you to achieve a deeper
focus. If you have spent at least 2 Focus Points since the last
time you Refocused, you recover 2 Focus Points when you
Refocus instead of 1.
14TH LEVEL
REFLECT SPELL
FEAT 14
WITCH
Prerequisites Counterspell
When you successfully use Counterspell to counteract a spell
HEDGE WITCH
With an eccentric personality and unconventional
magic, you and your familiar support your allies
and undermine your enemies.
ABILITY SCORES
Intelligence fuels your spells. Dexterity and Constitution
provide solid defenses, while Charisma can help you
influence people.
SKILLS
Crafting, Diplomacy, Occultism, Society
PATRON THEME
Fate
LESSONS
Basic: protection; greater: mischief; major: renewal
FEATS
Cauldron (1st), Basic Lesson (2nd), Greater Lesson (6th),
Witch’s Bottle (8th), Major Lesson (10th), Hex Focus (12th)
SAMPLE WITCH
Advanced Player's Guide
104
104
