CHAPTER 2: CLASSES
There are more classes in the world of Pathfinder than those explored in the Core
Rulebook, and each of those classes has near-infinite variety. This chapter introduces the
new investigator, oracle, swashbuckler, and witch classes and offers new options for each
of the 12 Core Rulebook classes.
Alchemist (page 106): You can learn a variety of
new discoveries or study the new toxicologist
research field.
Barbarian (page 108): Achieve new feats of
strength and brutality, or gain your rage from the
new superstition instinct.
Bard (page 112): Perform new compositions, learn
new and unusual tricks, or find a muse in the heat
of battle.
Cleric (page 122): Find new ways to gain additional
power and guidance from your deity, including
premonitions to help protect you from harm.
Druid (page 124): Your connection to nature
teaches you new primal techniques, including
feats to sow seeds into weapons and spells alike.
Fighter (page 126): Learn a variety of new
martial techniques, including flourishes, presses,
reactions, and a new stance.
Monk (page 128): Master new and exciting
forms of martial arts, with many new stances for
monastic archers and clever scrappers alike.
Ranger (page 132): Discover a brand new type
of focus spell called warden spells, as well as
additional martial and wilderness techniques.
Rogue (page 134): Pick up all sorts of new tricks,
or dig into new rackets: the scheming mastermind
or the magical eldritch trickster.
Sorcerer (page 138): Uncover powerful new secrets
in your blood, including four new bloodlines:
genie, nymph, psychopomp, and shadow.
Wizard (page 142): Research powerful new
magical secrets, including the staff nexus thesis.
Champion (page 116): You can engage in new feats
of heroism, or you might even eschew such things
completely and devote yourself to evil tenets.
swashbuckler
Page 82
To a swashbuckler, anything worth
doing is worth doing with style.
This dynamic daredevil performs
bold
feats
of
derring-do
and
mixes their own unique style with
flamboyant attacks. The swashbuckler
tumbles around the battlefield, befuddling
their foes to set them up for powerful finishing moves.
investigator
Page 54
Clever and insightful, the investigator
solves mysteries and teems with
knowledge. In battle, they play out
every possibility in advance, striking
true when the time is right. Their
methodology grants them an edge, and
their high Intelligence and number of skills
mean they almost always have the right tool for the job.
witch
Page 94
The witch is a versatile spellcaster who
learns a variety of magical lessons
from a mystical familiar, sent to them
by a powerful and mysterious patron.
The witch’s mastery of potent hexes
from their patron allows them to supplement
their other spells with special tricks to solve any problem.
oracle
Page 66
The oracle is a paradox of divine magic,
able to tap into and manipulate energies
from disparate sources throughout
the universe that would overwhelm
anyone else. These mysteries grant
unusual powers and revelations, as
well as a double-edged curse—which they
must learn how to simultaneously endure and exploit.
The entries on pages 54–105 describe four new classes,
including all the information you need to play each class
from 1st to 20th level. The chapter continues with new
content for the Core Rulebook classes. If you’re looking
for something new for your favorite Core Rulebook
class, those options are listed to the left. The chapter
concludes on page 144 with new animal companion and
familiar options.
Classes
2
53
53
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Archetypes
Feats
Spells
items
glossary
& Index
