to scrape off the rust to assist the target in recovering from
the persistent damage (reducing the DC of the flat check to
end persistent damage to 10 and granting an immediate flat
check). The effect of the spell depends on its target.
• Creature or Hazard A creature or hazard must be made
of all or mostly metal to be affected (this includes many
mechanical traps). It takes 8d6 damage (basic Fortitude
save), plus 2d6 persistent damage on a failed save.
Touching a hazard to affect it with this spell might trigger
the hazard, as determined by the GM.
• Item The rust deals 2d6 damage, subject to a basic Reflex
save by the creature wearing or holding the item; if the
item is unattended, it automatically gets a critical failure.
On a failed save, the item also takes 1d6 persistent
damage. For an attended item, this persistent damage
occurs at the end of the attending creature’s turns; if
the item was unattended when you Cast the Spell, the
damage happens at the end of your turns.
When targeting armor someone is wearing, its Bulk is 1
higher than the listed value, since carrying armor is more
cumbersome than wearing it. Thin iron or steel items,
such as weapons, have 20 HP and a Broken Threshold of
10, and thicker iron or steel items, such as most suits of
armor, have 36 HP and a Broken Threshold of 18. Other
materials’ statistics can be found on pages 577–579 of
the Core Rulebook.
Heightened (+1) Increase the initial damage to creatures or
hazards by 2d6, and increase the maximum Bulk of an item
you can target by 1.
SAFE PASSAGE
SPELL 3
ABJURATION
Traditions arcane, divine, primal
Cast [three-actions] material, somatic, verbal
Range touch; Area 10-foot-wide, 10-foot-tall, 60-foot-long
section of terrain
Duration sustained up to 1 minute
You repel dangers from all around you, making passage
through the chosen area safe for a brief amount of time.
Anyone passing through the area gains the following benefits
against harmful effects of the terrain and environment,
including environmental damage, hazardous terrain, and
hazards in the area. The spell grants a +2 status bonus to AC
and saves against such effects, and resistance 5 to all damage
from such effects. Furthermore, the spell prevents anything in
the area that’s prone to collapse, such as a rickety bridge or an
unstable ceiling, from collapsing, except under extreme strain
that would collapse a normal structure of its type.
Safe passage protects only against harm, not inconvenience,
and it doesn’t reduce difficult terrain, remove the concealed
condition caused by precipitation, or the like, nor does it
protect against creatures within the spell’s area.
Heightened (5th) The granted resistance increases to 10, and
the area can be 120 feet long.
Heightened (8th) The granted resistance increases to 15, and
the area can be 500 feet long.
SCINTILLATING SAFEGUARD
SPELL 6
ABJURATION
Traditions divine, occult, primal
Cast [reaction] somatic; Trigger An effect would deal physical or
energy damage to you or a creature in range.
Range 30 feet; Targets up to 5 willing creatures who would be
harmed by the triggering effect
A sparkling magical barrier envelops each target, shielding
them against the triggering effect. Choose one type of
physical or energy damage the triggering effect deals. Each
target gains resistance 10 against that damage type for the
triggering effect. The resistance applies only against the initial
damage, not against any persistent damage or other lingering
effects of the effect.
Heightened (+1) The resistance increases by 1.
SCULPT SOUND
SPELL 3
ILLUSION
Traditions occult
Cast [two-actions] somatic, material
Range touch; Targets 1 creature or object
Duration 10 minutes
You change the sounds made by a creature or object. Choose
how you’re altering the sounds when you Cast the Spell; you
can’t alter it later. You can cause something that didn’t create a
sound to make sound, alter the voice of a creature, amplify or
deaden a sound, or transform one sound into another. A creature
who succeeds at a Perception check against your spell DC can
determine that the sound was altered by an illusion, including
hearing faint sounds if you deadened the sound, but they can’t
determine the true sound unless they critically succeed at the
Perception check. You can Dismiss the spell.
Because this spell obscures sound instead of preventing it,
using the spell to quiet a creature doesn’t prevent that creature
from using verbal spell components, though it does prevent
most auditory effects that rely on another creature hearing
them accurately. An unwilling target can attempt a Will save.
Success The affected sound from the creature isn’t altered.
Failure The affected sound from the creature is altered in the
way you determine.
Critical Failure The affected sound from the creature is altered
and the target becomes stupefied 2 for 1 minute as it
struggles with the disorienting effects of its altered sound.
Heightened (5th) You can target up to 6 creatures or 6 objects,
altering the sounds of all affected creatures or objects in
the same way.
SEAL FATE
SPELL 4
CURSE
DEATH
NECROMANCY
Traditions arcane, divine, occult
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal
Range touch; Targets 1 living creature
Saving Throw Fortitude
You utter a curse that a creature will meet a certain end—a death
by freezing, stabbing, or another means you devise. Choose one
type of damage from the following list: acid, bludgeoning, cold,
Advanced Player's Guide
224
224
