Swapping SpellS in Your repertoire
As you gain new spells in your repertoire, you might want
to replace some of the spells you previously learned. Each
time you gain a level and learn new spells, you can swap
out one of your old spells for a different spell of the same
level. You can also instead swap a cantrip. You can also
swap out spells by retraining during downtime.
MYSTERY
An oracle wields divine power, but not from a single divine
being. This power could come from a potent concept or
ideal, the attention of multiple divine entities whose areas of
concern all touch on that subject, or a direct and dangerous
conduit to raw divine power. This is the
oracle’s mystery, a source of divine magic
not beholden to any deity.
Choose the mystery that empowers
your magic. Your mystery grants you
special spells called revelation spells and
might later grant you divine domain spells.
It dictates the effects of your oracular
curse, adds an additional cantrip to
your repertoire, and gives you one or
more trained skills. Drawing insight
and power from the collective divine
influences that fuel your magic also provides you
with a special benefit.
The following oracle mysteries are presented in
this book.
Ancestors (page 73): Voices of past generations
teach and haunt you.
Battle (page 74): You embody the virtues upheld by
heroes of legend.
Bones (page 75): Death always seems near, and
the dead speak to you.
Cosmos (page 75): You draw
power from the stars and the
spaces between.
Flames (page 76): You dance
with fire and do your best to
remain unscorched by it.
Life (page 77): The teeming
energies of life flow through you
out into the world.
Lore (page 77): You gain access to
unparalleled, overwhelming knowledge.
Tempest (page 78): Wind, waves, and storms
rage at your beck and call.
revelation SpellS
The powers of your mystery manifest in the
form of revelation spells, which are a type of focus
spell. Casting a revelation spell costs 1 Focus Point
and increases the effects of your oracular curse
(page 70). You start with a focus pool
of 2 Focus Points. You refill your focus
pool during your daily preparations, and you can regain
1 Focus Point by spending 10 minutes using the Refocus
activity to reconcile the conflicting or unconventional
nature of your divine mystery.
Focus spells are automatically heightened to half your
level rounded up. Focus spells don’t require spell slots,
and you can’t cast them using spell slots (see Divine
Spellcasting on page 68). Taking feats can give you
more focus spells and increase the size of your focus
pool, though your focus pool can never hold more
Classes
2
69
69
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Archetypes
Feats
Spells
items
glossary
& index
