Spell Descriptions
AGONIZING DESPAIR
SPELL 3
EMOTION
ENCHANTMENT
FEAR
MENTAL
Traditions arcane, divine, occult
Cast [two-actions] verbal, somatic
Range 60 feet; Targets 1 creature
Saving Throw Will
Your target’s mind tumbles down a deep well of dread,
dwelling so intently on deep-seated fears that it’s painful. The
target takes 4d6 mental damage with a Will saving throw.
Critical Success The target is unaffected.
Success The target takes half damage and becomes frightened 1.
Failure The target takes full damage and becomes frightened 2.
Critical Failure The target takes double damage and becomes
frightened 3.
Heightened (+1) Increase the damage by 2d6.
ANIMATE DEAD
SPELL 1
NECROMANCY
Traditions arcane, divine, occult
Cast [three-actions] material, somatic, verbal
Range 30 feet
Duration sustained up to 1 minute
Your magic dredges up a corpse or skeleton and fills it with
necromantic life, and you force the dead to fight at your
command. You summon a common creature that has the
undead trait and whose level is –1; this creature gains the
summoned trait. Heightening the spell increases the maximum
level of creature you can summon.
Heightened (2nd) Level 1.
Heightened (3rd) Level 2.
Heightened (4th) Level 3.
Heightened (5th) Level 5.
Heightened (6th) Level 7.
Heightened (7th) Level 9.
Heightened (8th) Level 11.
Heightened (9th) Level 13.
Heightened (10th) Level 15.
ANIMATE ROPE
SPELL 1
TRANSMUTATION
 Traditions arcane, occult
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal
Range 100 feet; Targets up to 50 feet of rope or a nonliving
rope-like object
Duration sustained up to 1 minute
You cause a length or section of rope or a rope-like object to
animate and follow simple commands. You can give it two
commands when you Cast the Spell, and one command each
time you Sustain the Spell.
• Bind (attack) The rope attempts to partially bind a
creature. Attempt a spell attack roll against the target’s
Reflex DC. If you succeed, the target takes a –10-foot
circumstance penalty to its Speed (–20-foot on a critical
success). This ends if the target Escapes against your
spell DC or breaks the rope. (A standard adventuring rope
has Hardness 2, HP 8, and a Broken Threshold of 4.)
• Coil The rope forms a tidy, coiled stack.
• Crawl The rope inches along the ground like a snake,
moving one of its ends 10 feet. The rope must move along
a surface, but that surface doesn’t need to be horizontal.
• Knot The rope ties a sturdy knot in itself.
• Loop The rope forms a simple loop at one or both ends, or
straightens itself back out.
• Tie The rope ties itself around a willing creature or an
object that’s unattended or attended by a willing creature.
• Undo The rope undoes one of its knots, ties, or bindings.
Heightened (+2) The range increases by 50 feet, and you can
animate 50 more feet of rope.
ANIMATED ASSAULT
SPELL 2
EVOCATION
Traditions arcane, occult
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal
Range 120 feet; Area 10-foot burst
Saving Throw basic Reflex; Duration sustained up to 1 minute
You use your mind to manipulate unattended objects in the
area, temporarily animating them to attack. The objects hover
in the air, then hurl themselves at nearby creatures in a chaotic
flurry of debris. This assault deals 2d10 bludgeoning damage
(basic Reflex save) to each creature in the area. On subsequent
rounds, you can Sustain this Spell, dealing 1d10 bludgeoning
damage (basic Reflex save) to each creature in the area.
Heightened (+2) The initial damage increases by 2d10 and the
subsequent damage increases by 1d10.
AQUEOUS ORB
SPELL 3
CONJURATION
WATER
Traditions arcane, primal
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal
Range 60 feet
Duration sustained up to 1 minute
A sphere of water 10 feet in diameter forms in an unoccupied
space in range, either on the ground or on the surface of a
liquid. When you Cast the Spell and each time you Sustain the
Spell, you can roll the orb, moving it up to 10 feet along the
ground or the surface of a liquid. Unlike most spells, you can
gain this effect multiple times in the same round by Sustaining
the Spell multiple times. The orb can move through the spaces
of any creatures or obstacles that wouldn’t stop the flow of
water. It extinguishes non-magical fires it moves through of its
size or smaller, and it attempts to counteract any magical fires
it moves through. If it fails to counteract a given fire, it can’t
counteract that fire for the duration of the spell.
The orb can also collect creatures it moves through. Any Large
or smaller creature whose space the orb tries to move through
can attempt a Reflex save against your spell DC to avoid being
engulfed. If a creature succeeds at this save, it can either let the
orb pass (remaining in its space or moving out of the orb’s path
into a space of the creature’s choice) or allow itself to be pushed
in front of the orb to the end of the orb’s movement. The orb can
Advanced Player's Guide
214
214
