effects of the Powerful Leap and Quick Jump skill feats. You
weigh only half as much, and your Bulk, should someone need
to carry you, is also half as much.
Major Curse (11th) As your body rises, you float just above
the ground beneath you. You become enfeebled 4, and the
penalty from your minor curse increases to –4. You can walk
on liquids as if they were solid; you gain the effects of the
Cloud Jump skill feat; and you don’t leave tracks, trigger
weight-sensitive pressure plates, or otherwise connect with
the ground below you.
FLAMES
Fire lives at the center of the world, the center of the
sun, and the center of civilization. You might revere this
elemental force, siphon power from the Elemental Plane of
Fire, or venerate a collection of deities such as Asmodeus,
Sarenrae, the Tian goddess of disasters and volcanoes Lady
Nanbyo, or the elemental lord of fire Ymeri.
Mystery Benefit Like fire itself, you flicker and dance, avoiding
effects that would quench your vitality. You have expert
proficiency in Reflex saves. At 13th level, if you gain the
lightning reflexes class feature, your proficiency rank for
Reflex saves increases to master, and when you roll a
success on a Reflex save, you get a critical success instead.
Trained Skill Acrobatics
Granted Cantrip produce flame
Revelation Spells initial: incendiary aura; advanced: whirling
flames; greater: flaming fusillade
Related Domains fire, sun
CurSe of engulfing flaMeS
You see flames and smoke wherever you look. These
flames might be imagined, or they might be a preternatural
glimpse of the metaphorical fires that empower the
entire multiverse—but you always see them. Fires flare
noticeably (though not dangerously) in your presence,
you occasionally smoke slightly, and your body is almost
painfully hot to the touch.
Minor Curse The smoke, heat, and crackling flames of your
curse fill your vision and all your other senses. Creatures
further than 30 feet are concealed from you. You can’t benefit
from effects that would allow you to ignore or mitigate this
concealment, as normal for effects of an oracular curse.
Moderate Curse Smoke and flickering visions of flame
fill your senses more completely, and harmless flickers of
obscuring flames also fill your space. You are concealed
from other creatures, though as the other creatures aren’t
cursed themselves, they can benefit from effects that would
allow them to ignore or mitigate the concealed condition, as
normal. All other creatures and objects are concealed from
you regardless of distance; however, when casting a fire spell,
you automatically succeed at the flat check for this concealed
condition for targets within 30 feet.
All your senses become imprecise beyond 30 feet, meaning
everything past 30 feet that you’d normally be able to see is
hidden from you.
LIFEBRINGER
You channel divine power into healing energy for your
allies, though it taxes your body to do so.
ABILITY SCORES
Focus on Charisma to boost your skills, and Constitution
to better withstand the effects of your curse. Wisdom
helps you understand and treat the ailments your magic
can’t heal.
SKILLS
Diplomacy, Medicine, Nature, Religion, Survival
MYSTERY
Life
FEATS
Divine Aegis (2nd), Advanced Revelation (6th), Read Disaster
(8th), Oracular Warning (10th), Divine Effusion (18th)
SPELL REPERTOIRE
1st heal, sanctuary; Cantrips chill touch, disrupt undead,
forbidding ward, message, read aura, stabilize
SAMPLE ORACLE
Advanced Player's Guide
76
76
