MAD MONKEYS
SPELL 3
CONJURATION
Traditions primal
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal
Range 30 feet; Area 5-foot burst
Duration sustained up to 1 minute
Magical monkey spirits fill the area as they pile and climb on top
of one another. Because the monkeys are magical spirits, they
can’t be attacked or hurt. Casting calm emotions or a similar
effect over the monkeys makes them docile, causing them to
cease making mischief for the duration of mad monkeys.
Choose the kind of mischief your monkeys make when you
Cast the Spell. They produce the effect listed for that mischief
when you Cast the Spell and each round when you Sustain the
Spell. When you Sustain the Spell, you can move the area of
the monkeys by 5 feet.
• Flagrant Burglary The monkeys try to Steal any one item
from one creature in the area. Use your spell DC – 10
as the monkeys’ Thievery modifier. Their attempt relies
more on distraction than subtlety, so the victim knows
what item the monkeys were trying to take and whether
it was taken. Getting a stolen item from the monkeys—
even for the caster—requires Stealing it from them or
Disarming them, using your spell DC. When the spell
ends, any stolen items fall to the ground in any square of
the spell’s area you choose.
• Raucous Din The monkeys screech loudly, potentially
deafening creatures in the spell’s area. Each creature in
the spell’s area must attempt a Fortitude save.
Critical Success The creature is unaffected and is
temporarily immune for 10 minutes.
Success The creature is unaffected.
Failure The creature is deafened for 1 round.
Critical Failure The creature is deafened for 1 minute.
• Tumultuous Gymnastics The monkeys jump and climb
all over creatures in the spell’s area, interfering with
complex movements. Each creature in the spell’s area
must attempt a Reflex save.
Critical Success The creature is unaffected and is
temporarily immune for 10 minutes.
Success The creature is unaffected.
Failure For 1 round, the creature must succeed at a DC 5
flat check whenever it attempts a manipulate action. If
it fails this check, the creature loses that action.
Critical Failure As failure, but the monkeys cling to the
creature tenaciously, and the effect lasts until the spell
ends, even if the creature leaves the spell’s area.
MAGIC STONE
SPELL 1
NECROMANCY
POSITIVE
Traditions divine, primal
Cast [one-action] to [three-actions] (verbal, somatic)
Range touch; Targets 1 to 3 non-magical stones or sling bullets
Duration 1 minute
You pour positive energy into ordinary stones, granting them
temporary magical properties. You can target 1 non-magical
stone or sling bullet for every action you use Casting this Spell.
The stones must be unattended or carried by you or a willing
ally. The stones become +1 striking disrupting sling bullets. Each
stone can be used only once, after which it crumbles to dust.
NOXIOUS VAPORS
SPELL 1
EVOCATION
POISON
Traditions arcane, primal
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal
Area 10-foot emanation
Saving Throw basic Fortitude; Duration 1 round
You emit a cloud of toxic smoke that temporarily obscures you
from sight. Each creature except you in the area when you
Cast the Spell takes 1d6 poison damage (basic Fortitude save).
A creature that critically fails the saving throw also becomes
sickened 1. All creatures in the area become concealed, and all
creatures outside the smoke become concealed to creatures
within it. This smoke can be dispersed by a strong wind.
Heightened (+1) The damage increases by 1d6.
OBJECT READING
SPELL 1
DIVINATION
Traditions occult
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal
Range touch; Targets 1 object
You place a hand on an object to learn a piece of information
about an emotional event that occurred involving the object
within the past week, determined by the GM. If you cast
object reading on the same item multiple times, you can either
concentrate on a single event to gain additional pieces of
information about that event, or gain a piece of information
about another emotional event in the applicable time frame.
Heightened (2nd) You can learn about an event that occurred
within the last month.
Heightened (4th) You can learn about an event that occurred
within the last year.
Heightened (6th) You can learn about an event that occurred
within the last decade.
Heightened (8th) You can learn about an event that occurred
within the last century.
Heightened (9th) You can learn about an event that occurred
within the entirety of the object’s history.
PET CACHE
SPELL 1
CONJURATION
EXTRADIMENSIONAL
Traditions arcane, divine, occult, primal
Cast [one-action] somatic
Range touch; Targets 1 willing creature that is your animal
companion or familiar
Duration 8 hours
You open your cloak or create a gap with your hands, drawing
the target into a pocket dimension just large enough for its basic
comfort. No other creature can enter this extradimensional
space, and the target can bring along objects only if they were
designed to be worn by a creature of its kind. The space has
enough air, food, and water to sustain the target for the duration.
Advanced Player's Guide
222
222
