BACK TO BACK
FEAT 8
ARCHETYPE
Prerequisites Marshal Dedication
You excel at watching your allies’ backs and helping them
watch yours. As long as you and an ally are adjacent to each
other, neither of you can become flat-footed due to flanking
unless both of you are flanked. If you’re adjacent to more than
one ally, all eligible allies can benefit at a given time. The benefit
is negated for everyone if at least you and any one eligible ally
are flanked, but not if your allies are flanked and you aren’t.
TO BATTLE! [one-action] OR [two-actions]
FEAT 8
ARCHETYPE
AUDITORY
FLOURISH
Prerequisites Marshal Dedication
With a resounding cry, you rally your ally to the offensive.
Choose one ally within your marshal’s aura who has a reaction
available. If you spend 1 action, that ally can
use their reaction to immediately Stride. If
you spend 2 actions, that ally can use their
reaction to immediately Strike.
TOPPLE FOE [reaction]
FEAT 10
ARCHETYPE
Prerequisites Marshal Dedication, trained in
Athletics
Trigger An ally succeeds at a melee Strike against an
opponent you are both adjacent to.
You take advantage of the opening created by your ally to
tip your foe off their feet. Attempt an Athletics check to Trip
the target of the triggering attack.
COORDINATED CHARGE [two-actions]
FEAT 12
ARCHETYPE
OPEN
VISUAL
Prerequisites Marshal Dedication
You heroically dash into the fray, inspiring your allies to
follow. You Stride up to your Speed and make a melee Strike.
If your Strike hits and damages an enemy, each ally within
60 feet who saw you hit can use a reaction to Stride, but
they each must end their Stride closer to the creature you
hit than where they started.
TACTICAL CADENCE
FEAT 14
ARCHETYPE
Prerequisites Cadence Call
Your remarkable breath control and concise instructions
allow you to coordinate your allies more effectively. When
you grant allies the quickened condition using Cadence Call,
they can use the extra action to either Stride or Strike, and
they aren’t slowed 1 on their following turn if they use the
extra action.
TARGET OF OPPORTUNITY [reaction]
FEAT 14
ARCHETYPE
MANIPULATE
Prerequisites Marshal Dedication
Trigger An ally succeeds at a ranged Strike against an
opponent within your weapon’s first range increment.
Requirements You have a ranged or thrown weapon in hand.
You capitalize on your ally’s attack to create a coordinated
barrage. Make a ranged Strike with a –2 penalty against
the opponent targeted by the triggering attack. This Strike
doesn’t count toward your multiple attack penalty, and your
multiple attack penalty doesn’t apply to this Strike. If this
Strike is successful, combine the damage from the attack
with the damage from your ally’s attack for the purpose of
resistances and weaknesses.
Archetypes
3
181
181
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Archetypes
Feats
Spells
items
glossary
& index
