MONK
The following class feats offer monks a variety of abilities, from stances that
harness the strength or grace of specific animals to devastating ranged attacks.
Monk Feats
1ST LEVEL
GORILLA STANCE [one-action]
FEAT 1
MONK
STANCE
You lower yourself to the ground and take an imposing,
knuckle-walking stance. While in this stance, the only
Strikes you can make are gorilla slam unarmed attacks.
These deal 1d8 bludgeoning damage; are in the brawling
group; and have the backswing, forceful, grapple, nonlethal,
and unarmed traits. While you are in Gorilla Stance, you gain
a +2 circumstance bonus to Athletics checks to Climb, and if
you roll a success on an Athletics check to Climb, you get a
critical success instead.
MONASTIC ARCHER STANCE [one-action]
FEAT 1
MONK
STANCE
Requirements You are unarmored and wielding a longbow,
shortbow, or a bow with the monk trait.
You enter a specialized stance for a unique martial art
centered around the use of a bow. While in this stance,
the only Strikes you can make are those using longbows,
shortbows, or bows with the monk trait. You can use
Flurry of Blows with these bows. You can use your other
monk feats or monk abilities that normally require unarmed
attacks with these bows when attacking within half the first
range increment (normally 50 feet for a longbow and 30 feet
for a shortbow), so long as the feat or ability doesn’t require
a single, specific Strike.
Special When you select this feat, you become trained in
the longbow, shortbow, and any simple and martial bows
with the monk trait. If you gain the expert strikes class
feature, your proficiency rank for these weapons increases
to expert, and if you gain the master strikes class feature,
your proficiency rank for these weapons increases to master.
STUMBLING STANCE [one-action]
LEVEL 1
MONK
STANCE
Prerequisites trained in Deception
You enter a seemingly unfocused stance that mimics the
movements of the inebriated—bobbing, weaving, leaving
false openings, and distracting your enemies from your
true movements. While in this stance, you gain a +1
circumstance bonus to Deception checks to Feint. The
only Strikes you can make are stumbling swing unarmed
attacks. These deal 1d8 bludgeoning damage; are in the
brawling group; and have the agile, backstabber, finesse,
nonlethal, and unarmed traits. If an enemy hits you with
a melee Strike while in this stance, it becomes flat-footed
against the next stumbling swing Strike you make against
it before the end of your next turn.
2ND LEVEL
ANCESTRAL WEAPONRY
FEAT 2
MONK
Prerequisites Monastic Weaponry, a feat granting access to
all weapons with an ancestry trait (such as elf or orc)
You blend monastic techniques with the ancestral fighting
styles of your people. Choose an ancestry for which you have
access to all weapons with that trait. For you, melee weapons
with that ancestry trait and either the agile or finesse trait
gain the monk trait.
SHOOTING STARS STANCE [one-action]
FEAT 2
MONK
STANCE
Prerequisites Monastic Weaponry
You enter a stance that lets you throw shuriken with lightning
speed. While in this stance, you can use your monk feats or
monk abilities that normally require unarmed attacks with
shuriken instead.
4TH LEVEL
COBRA STANCE [one-action]
LEVEL 4
MONK
STANCE
You enter a tight stance, coiled up like a lashing cobra with
your hands poised as venomous fangs. While in this stance,
the only Strikes you can make are cobra fang unarmed attacks.
These deal 1d4 poison damage; are in the brawling group; and
have the agile, deadly d10, finesse, nonlethal, poison, and
unarmed traits.
While in Cobra Stance, you gain a +1 circumstance bonus to
Fortitude saves and your Fortitude DC, and you gain poison
resistance equal to half your level.
PEAFOWL STANCE [one-action]
LEVEL 4
MONK
STANCE
Prerequisites Monastic Weaponry
Requirements You are wielding a sword that has the monk
trait in one hand.
You enter a tall and proud stance while remaining mobile,
with all the grace and composure of a peafowl. While in this
stance, the only Strikes you can make are melee Strikes
with the required sword. Once per round, after you hit with
a monk sword Strike, you can Step as a free action as your
next action.
Advanced Player's Guide
128
128
