have inspire heroics or lingering performance and the chosen
composition spell allows, you can also use one of those spells
to modify the annotated composition, with the GM rolling the
secret Performance check. If you do, you spend an additional
Focus Point, even if the secret check fails.
Any creature that can read the language you used when
annotating your composition can Activate the Item by
spending a single action, which has the concentrate trait.
This produces the effects of the composition as though the
activating creature had Cast the Spell.
A composition you create this way loses its power the
next time you make your daily preparations. While the
composition is in your possession, you can render it inert
using a single action that has the concentrate trait. You can’t
regain the Focus Points you spent to create the annotated
composition until it is activated or loses its magic.
COURAGEOUS ASSAULT [one-action]
FEAT 10
AUDITORY
BARD
CONCENTRATE
METAMAGIC
Prerequisites warrior muse
With a mighty shout, you can stir an ally to attack. If
your next action is to cast the inspire courage composition
cantrip, one ally who gains a status bonus from the spell can
immediately use a reaction to make a melee Strike.
ODE TO OUROBOROS
FEAT 10
BARD
You learn the ode to ouroboros composition spell (page 228),
which enables you to temporarily spare your allies from death.
SYMPHONY OF THE UNFETTERED HEART
FEAT 10
BARD
You learn the symphony of the unfettered heart composition
spell (page 228), which enables you to protect an ally against
incapacitating conditions.
12TH LEVEL
ENIGMA’S KNOWLEDGE
FEAT 12
BARD
Prerequisites Assured Knowledge
Your muse whispers knowledge to you at all the right times.
You gain the benefits of the Automatic Knowledge skill feat
with any skill you can use to Recall Knowledge. As per the
special clause in the Automatic Knowledge feat, you can still
only use Automatic Knowledge once per round.
REVERBERATE [reaction]
FEAT 12
BARD
Trigger You would take sonic damage from a spell.
You can manipulate the acoustics around you to deflect
sonic damage back at its source. Attempt a Performance
check against the spell DC of the creature that cast the
triggering spell.
Critical Success You reduce the triggering damage by an
amount up to four times your level. The caster takes sonic
damage equal to the amount of damage you reduced in
this way.
Success As critical success, but you reduce the triggering
damage by an amount up to twice your level.
Critical Failure You misdirect the sonic waves at yourself,
taking twice the triggering damage.
SHARED ASSAULT
FEAT 12
BARD
Prerequisites Courageous Assault
In the triumph of battle, you can share the glory with
another ally. When the ally you chose for Courageous
Assault critically succeeds at the Strike granted by that
action, another ally affected by your inspire courage
composition spell can immediately use a reaction to make
a melee Strike. Since the second ally wasn’t the ally you
chose for Courageous Assault, this effect doesn’t continue
to a third ally, even if the second ally also critically succeeds
at their Strike.
14TH LEVEL
EARWORM
FEAT 14
BARD
EXPLORATION
By endlessly repeating a motif, you implant an earworm, a
memorable song that repeats over and over again in your
allies’ heads, preparing them to respond to it later. Choose
a composition cantrip and spend 10 minutes repeating
a melody, chant, speech, series of motions, or a similar
performance that embodies that cantrip. This activity gains
the traits appropriate to the type of performance. You
implant the earworm within all allies who can see or hear
you (as appropriate for the type of performance) for the
entire activity.
Once you’ve created the earworm, you can attempt a
Performance check as a free action to activate it. This check
uses a very hard DC of a level equal to that of the highest-
level target of the earworm present at the time of activation
(Core Rulebook 503–504). On a success, you cast the cantrip
on all allies who learned the earworm and can perceive
your performance; on a failure, the earworm is corrupted
and lost. Because it is based on the earlier repetitions, you
can’t use further free actions like lingering performance or
inspire heroics to modify the activated earworm. Allies forget
the earworm after it is activated, if you spend 10 minutes
to implant another earworm, or during your next daily
preparations, whichever comes first.
TRIUMPHANT INSPIRATION [free-action]
FEAT 14
BARD
Prerequisites warrior muse
Trigger You critically hit a foe with a melee weapon Strike or
a melee unarmed attack.
With a triumphant shout, you inspire your allies. You cast a
composition cantrip you know that normally takes a single
action to cast.
Advanced Player's Guide
114
114
