Evil Champions
The Core Rulebook contains the rules for being a
champion of good, but just as there are champions of
virtue, there are those who champion far more unsavory
causes. The vilest of these villains dedicate themselves
to truly evil gods and revel in destruction, control, or
unfettered self-interest. While many evil champions
embraced their terrible path on its own merits, many
others were once champions of good who lost themselves
to the forces of evil and became the very thing they once
fought against.
The tenets and causes of evil follow the rules provided
in the Core Rulebook. While evil characters in general can
range from self-serving but loyal allies to the extremes of
depravity, evil champions are particularly vile, with a code
that requires, enforces, and depends upon their villainous
behavior. This means they can be extremely disruptive to
a typical game and should be accessible player character
options only in appropriate adventures or campaigns
where the group collectively decides to embrace them.
The tenets and causes of evil are uncommon options.
While the feats and actions suitable for evil champions
don’t separately list access entries, typically if your GM
grants you access to evil tenets, you also gain access to
champion actions and feats that require those tenets.
THE TENETS OF EVIL
All champions of evil alignment follow these tenets.
• You must never perform acts anathema to your
deity or willingly commit a purely good act, such
as giving something solely out of charity, casting a
good spell, or using a good item.
• You must never put another person’s needs before
your own, and you must never put your own needs
before those of your deity. Though you can perform
acts others might consider helpful, it must be done
with the expectation that it ultimately furthers your
own goals or those of your master.
EVIL CAUSES
As an evil champion, you must select one of the following
causes. Your cause must match your alignment exactly.
Your cause determines your champion’s reaction (see
below), grants you a devotion spell (page 228), and
defines part of your champion’s code.
TyranT (LawfuL EviL)
Might makes right, and you subjugate the weak to keep
them in their proper place. You gain the Iron Command
champion’s reaction and the touch of corruption
devotion spell. After the tenets of evil, add these tenets.
• Let no one who is lesser than you wield power over
you or lead you.
• Mercilessly enforce established hierarchies of
masters and servants. Topple or seize control
of illegitimate hierarchies, such as democratic
governments or the arrogant echelons of the
celestial planes, and fill power vacuums by taking
that power for yourself.
• Bind the weak to serve you. This tenet doesn’t
require you to spare foes’ lives if you think they
would be disloyal if pressed into servitude, nor does
it require you to keep more servants than you find
practical or useful.
DEsEcraTor (nEuTraL EviL)
You always take what pleases you, no matter who it
hurts, and you spread the influence of evil across all you
touch. You gain the Selfish Shield champion’s reaction
and the touch of corruption devotion spell. After the
tenets of evil, add this tenet.
• Subvert or corrupt everything in your path that
is pure and good, and sow doubt among those
upholding such ideals.
anTipaLaDin (chaoTic EviL)
You’re dishonorable, dishonest, and committed to
breaking the false hopes of kindness. You gain the
Destructive Vengeance champion’s reaction and the
touch of corruption devotion spell. After the tenets of
evil, add these tenets.
• You must not bind yourself with any law or oath
beyond that of your code (though you can still
select a champion feat with the oath trait). Act
dishonorably, take advantage of others, lie, cheat,
and steal to get what you want.
• You must destroy that which offends you and that
which stands in your way, including—and perhaps
especially—the forces of good and law that oppose
you. This tenet doesn’t force you to take action
immediately if it could mean your destruction, nor
does it require you to destroy something that might
be useful if corrupted toward your ends.
CHAMPION’S REACTION
The special reactions for evil causes are as follows: Iron
Command for tyrant, Selfish Shield for desecrator, and
Destructive Vengeance for antipaladin.
CHAMPION
Though this section also contains new options for good champions, it is
dominated by the vicious tenets and vile abilities of champions of evil.
Advanced Player's Guide
116
116
