Size Small
Melee [one-action] jaws, Damage 1d8 piercing
Melee [one-action] tail (agile), Damage 1d6 bludgeoning
Str +3, Dex +2, Con +2, Int –4, Wis +1, Cha +0
Hit Points 6
Skill Stealth
Senses low-light vision
Speed 20 feet, swim 25 feet
Special The crocodile can hold its breath for about 2 hours.
Support Benefit Your crocodile clamps its jaws on your foe,
refusing to let go. Until the start of your next turn, if your
Strike damages a creature in your crocodile’s reach, your
crocodile can latch onto the creature. While thus attached, the
crocodile can move along with the target whenever the target
moves until the end of your next turn. Your crocodile can latch
onto only one creature in this way, and it must release the
creature to make a jaws Strike. If the target is smaller than
the crocodile, it takes a –10-foot circumstance penalty to its
Speeds and can’t Fly while the crocodile is latched on.
Advanced Maneuver Death Roll
DEATH ROLL [one-action]
Requirements The crocodile has a creature grabbed.
The crocodile tucks its legs and rolls rapidly, twisting its
victim. It makes a jaws Strike with a +2 circumstance bonus
to the attack roll against the grabbed creature. If it hits, it also
knocks the creature prone. If it misses, it releases the creature.
RIDING DRAKE
UNCOMMON
Your companion is a swift, flightless drake with limited
intelligence, less vicious than most drakes but fiercely loyal to
you. A riding drake has the dragon trait instead of the animal
trait, but it otherwise functions normally as an animal companion.
Size Large
Melee [one-action] jaws, Damage 1d8 piercing
Melee [one-action] tail, Damage 1d6 bludgeoning
Str +2, Dex +1, Con +2, Int –4, Wis +1, Cha +2
Hit Points 8
Skill Intimidation
Senses darkvision
Speed 45 feet
Special mount
Support Benefit Your drake snorts fire in your foes’ faces.
Until the start of your next turn, each time you Strike while
riding the drake and hit a creature in the drake’s reach,
the creature takes 1d4 fire damage from the drake. If your
drake is nimble or savage, the fire damage increases to 2d4.
Advanced Maneuver Breath Weapon
BREATH WEAPON [two-actions]
Frequency once per hour
The riding drake breathes a 30-foot cone of fire, dealing 1d6 fire
damage for every 2 levels the drake has to all creatures in the
area (basic Reflex save). This uses a trained DC using the drake’s
Constitution modifier or an expert DC if the drake is specialized.
SCORPION
Your companion is one of the various species of giant
scorpion.
Size Small
Melee [one-action] stinger, Damage 1d6 piercing plus poison (see Special)
Melee [one-action] pincer (agile), Damage 1d6 slashing
Str +3, Dex +3, Con +1, Int –4, Wis +1, Cha +0
Hit Points 6
Skill Stealth
Senses darkvision
Speed 30 feet
Special The scorpion’s stinger attack deals an additional 1d4
poison damage or 2d4 poison damage if the scorpion is a
specialized companion.
Support Benefit Your scorpion drips poison from its stinger
when you create an opening. Until the start of your next
turn, your Strikes that damage a creature in your scorpion’s
reach also deal 1d6 persistent poison damage. If your
scorpion is nimble or savage, the persistent poison damage
increases to 2d6.
Advanced Maneuver Grab and Sting
GRAB AND STING [two-actions]
The scorpion holds its foe in place with its pincers in order to
sting it. It makes a pincer Strike. If the Strike hits, the target
creature automatically becomes grabbed by the scorpion,
which then makes a stinger Strike against it. The grabbed
condition lasts until the end of your next turn.
SHARK
Your companion is a shark of any kind, such as a hammerhead,
great white, or jigsaw shark.
Size Small
Melee [one-action] jaws, Damage 1d8 piercing
Str +3, Dex +2, Con +2, Int –4, Wis +1, Cha +0
Hit Points 6
Skill Stealth
Senses blood scent, scent (imprecise, 60 feet)
Speed swim 40 feet
Special The shark has the aquatic trait. Its blood scent enables
it to smell blood in the water from up to 1 mile away.
Support Benefit When your shark senses blood, it tears into
your enemies. Until the start of your next turn, each time
you hit a creature in the shark’s reach with a Strike and
deal slashing or piercing damage, the creature takes 1d8
slashing damage from the shark. If your shark is nimble or
savage, the slashing damage increases to 2d8.
Advanced Maneuver Shred
SHRED [one-action]
Requirements The shark hit with a jaws Strike on its most
recent action this turn.
The shark viciously rips into the wound, dealing additional
damage. The target of the shark’s Strike takes 1d8
slashing damage (2d8 for a mature shark or 3d8 for a
specialized companion).
Classes
2
145
145
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Archetypes
Feats
Spells
items
glossary
& index
