FOUR-WAYS DOGSLICER
ITEM 12
UNCOMMON
COLD
ELECTRICITY
EVOCATION
FIRE
MAGICAL
Price 1,700 gp
Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk L
This +2 striking dogslicer is obviously the work of a
brilliant but scrappy artisan who valued versatility over
safety. Four toothy gems line the blade’s cutting edge,
three of which glow—one with fiery red light, one with
a chill blue, and one that gives off sparks—while the last
is a glistening black. Each of these gems embodies a
weapon property rune, but only one rune can be active
at a time.
Activate [one-action] Interact; Effect You twist the gem along the
blade corresponding with the desired weapon rune:
red for flaming, blue for frost, or yellow for shock. You take
1d6 damage of the type the chosen rune deals. You can
instead twist the black gem to disable the active property
rune, taking no damage.
GLAMOROUS BUCKLER
ITEM 2
ILLUSION
MAGICAL
Price 35 gp
Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk L
A glamorous buckler (Hardness 3, HP 6, BT 3) is lavishly
decorated with gilding and inset gemstones that glitter in
the light. While you have it raised, the glamorous buckler
grants you a +1 item bonus to Deception checks to Feint.
Activate [free-action] envision; Frequency once per day;
Trigger You Feint; Requirements You have
the glamorous buckler raised; Effect As
you Feint, the glamorous buckler sparkles
mightily. On a successful Feint, the target is
dazzled for 1 round.
HELLFIRE BOOTS
ITEM 13
EVOCATION
FIRE
INVESTED
MAGICAL
Price 3,000 gp
Usage worn; Bulk 1
These heavy boots are made of blackened metal and always
feel warm to the touch, with streams of glowing embers
cascading off their heels. While wearing hellfire boots, you
gain resistance 10 to fire damage.
Activate [two-actions] Interact; Frequency once per minute; Effect
Stride. Each square you move through during your Stride is
scorched with hellish flames, becoming hazardous terrain
for 1 minute. A creature that moves through one of these
spaces takes 3d6 fire damage.
INFILTRATOR’S ACCESSORY
ITEM 5
ILLUSION
MAGICAL
Price 150 gp
Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk 1
This elegant +1 striking sword cane serves equally well as a
fashionable accessory and hidden weapon suitable for high-
society events where weapons aren’t typically permitted.
Activate [one-action] Interact; Effect You twist the sword cane’s hilt,
magically merging the blade into the cane. While
the blade is merged, it can’t be drawn and gains the
benefits of a 3rd-level magic aura spell to appear
non-magical. Passive observers can’t attempt a check
to notice the cane is anything more than a mundane,
if superb, fashion accessory. Those carefully examining
it can discern the cane is more than it appears, but
doing so is extremely difficult (DC 30 Perception).
Activating the sword cane again releases the
blade, allowing it to be drawn normally.
LOVER’S GLOVES
ITEM 8
EMOTION
ENCHANTMENT
INVESTED
MAGICAL
MENTAL
Price 500 gp
Usage worn gloves; Bulk —
These white silk gloves are adorned in red hearts
that glow faintly whenever you are adjacent to
someone you feel particularly strongly toward.
They buoy your spirit, giving you a +1 item bonus
to Diplomacy checks.
Activate [one-action] Interact; Frequency once per
day; Effect You grasp the hands of a willing
creature you have strong positive feelings
about, regardless of the nature of those feelings.
The creature gains a +1 status bonus to saving
throws and 10 temporary Hit Points for 10 minutes.
If the creature shares your feelings, you gain the same
benefits, and for the duration, when you both roll a
success on a saving throw against an emotion effect
that causes negative emotions, you both get a critical
success instead.
MASK OF THE BANSHEE
ITEM 9+
AUDITORY
INVESTED
MAGICAL
NECROMANCY
NEGATIVE
Usage worn mask; Bulk —
This ice-blue half-mask is adorned with a wicked silver grin
that covers the wearer’s mouth, leaving the rest of the face
uncovered. You gain a +2 item bonus to Intimidation checks.
Activate [two-actions] envision, Interact; Frequency once per day;
Effect The mask emits a soul-chilling scream that deals
6d10 negative damage to each living creature in a 20-foot
emanation (DC 25 basic Fortitude save).
Type mask of the banshee; Level 9; Price 700 gp
Type greater mask of the banshee; Level 19; Price 35,000
The item bonus to Intimidation is +3. Activating a greater
mask of the banshee casts a 9th-level wail of the banshee (DC
41) affecting all living creatures in the area.
Craft Requirements Supply a casting of wail of the banshee.
MEDUSA’S SCREAM
ITEM 13+
MAGICAL
TRANSMUTATION
Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk 1
The ghastly visage of a slain medusa’s head stares out from
this steel shield (Hardness 13, HP 52, BT 26). The shield comes
with a thick leather cover to conceal the head.
Activate [two-actions] Interact (visual); Frequency once per day;
Items
6
261
261
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Archetypes
Feats
Spells
items
glossary
& Index
