reach, such as a chest, door, wall, or column. This creates
a hazard in one square occupied by or adjacent to the
inanimate object, and the hazard’s Stealth DC to detect it
and Thievery DC to disable it are equal to your class DC.
The hazard has the following reaction, which you can also
trigger as a single action so long as you are within 30
feet of the hazard. The hazard retains its potency until it’s
triggered, until the inanimate object moves from its space,
or until you make your next daily preparations, whichever
comes first.
Fire in the Hole [reaction] Trigger A creature moves into the
hazard’s space; Effect The hazard explodes, dealing the
bombs’ damage and splash damage to the inanimate object.
Combine this damage for the purpose of resistances and
weaknesses, and this damage ignores an amount of the
object’s Hardness equal to your level. Any creatures adjacent
to the hazard take the bombs’ splash damage, similarly
combined for the purpose of resistances and weaknesses.
As a reminder, since you didn’t throw the bombs, Calculated
Splash and similar effects don’t apply.
4TH LEVEL
HEALING BOMB [free-action]
FEAT 4
ADDITIVE 2
ALCHEMIST
Frequency once per round
Trigger You craft an elixir of life using Quick Alchemy, and
that elixir is at least 2 levels lower than your advanced
alchemy level.
By adding a special catalyst, you transform a healing elixir
into a topical projectile. You grant the elixir the bomb trait.
If you throw an elixir of life bomb at a willing target, you
hit even on a failure, though not on a critical failure. If your
Strike with this elixir bomb hits a living target, the target
regains Hit Points as if it had consumed the elixir. On a
critical success, the target also gains the elixir’s item bonus
to saving throws against diseases and poisons for 1 minute.
TENACIOUS TOXINS
FEAT 4
ALCHEMIST
Your victims tend to expire long before your poisons, since
the latter have been specifically formulated to last longer.
The maximum duration of any poison you create increases
by an amount equal to the poison’s stage 1 interval, to a
maximum of twice the poison’s maximum duration.
6TH LEVEL
STICKY POISON
FEAT 6
ALCHEMIST
A combination of additional viscosity and careful
application keeps your weapons poisoned even when
suffering significant wear and tear. If your Strike with a
poisoned weapon would expend its poison without your
target attempting an initial save (due to resistance or your
Strike being a critical failure, for example), attempt a DC 5
flat check. On a success, your weapon remains poisoned.
If your Strike with a poisoned weapon succeeds, attempt
a DC 17 flat check. On a success, your weapon remains
poisoned until the end of your next turn.
8TH LEVEL
PERPETUAL BREADTH
FEAT 8
ALCHEMIST
Prerequisites perpetual infusions
You have expanded your supply of near-infinite items.
Choose a research field. Add one item from the list of options
available to that field from perpetual infusions, or two items
if you choose your own field. If you have perpetual potency
or perpetual perfection, you gain an additional item (or items
if you chose your own field) appropriate to the field you
chose, for instance a higher-level version of the bomb you
chose or a new poison.
PINPOINT POISONER
FEAT 8
ALCHEMIST
Unsuspecting targets are especially vulnerable to your
poisons. When you successfully Strike a flat-footed creature
with a poisoned weapon or expose a flat-footed creature to
an inhaled poison, the flat-footed condition also gives that
creature a –2 circumstance penalty to its initial save against
that poison.
10TH LEVEL
UNSTABLE CONCOCTION
FEAT 10
ALCHEMIST
You can create extraordinary—albeit volatile—alchemical
wonders, though they have an unfortunate tendency to
violently explode when you use them. When you use
Quick Alchemy, you can create an alchemical item from
your formula book whose level is up to 2 higher than your
advanced alchemy level. You can spend up to 3 additional
batches of infused reagents when creating this item to
stabilize it. Upon activating the item, attempt a DC 10 flat
check; for every additional batch of infused reagents you
spent to create the item, reduce this DC by 2. On a success,
the item functions normally. On a failure, the item explodes,
dealing force damage to the user equal to twice the item’s
level (doubled on a critical failure).
16TH LEVEL
CHEMICAL CONTAGION [reaction]
FEAT 16
ALCHEMIST
Trigger A creature within 30 feet critically fails its initial
saving throw against a poison you created.
With carefully engineered enzymes, you coax some of your
poison to infect another target, using the original victim as
a carrier. A creature adjacent to the triggering creature is
exposed to the triggering poison.
Classes
2
107
107
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Archetypes
Feats
Spells
items
glossary
& index
