LITANY OF SELF-INTEREST
FOCUS 5
UNCOMMON
CHAMPION
ENCHANTMENT
EVIL
LITANY
MENTAL
Cast [one-action] verbal
Range 30 feet; Targets 1 creature
Saving Throw Will; Duration 1 round
You give a speech that fills your target with a drive to improve
themself to the exclusion of assisting others. A creature that
wants to gain the benefit of this spell and doesn’t care about
its limitations can voluntarily fail the save. The target then
becomes temporarily immune to all your litanies for 1 minute.
Success The target is unaffected.
Failure The target gains a +2 status bonus to attack rolls,
Perception checks, saving throws, and skill checks. The
target can’t Aid other creatures, consider any creature an
ally, or use spells or abilities that directly benefit another
creature (as determined by the GM), even if they also benefit
the target. Other creatures allied with the spell’s target can
still consider the target an ally and affect it accordingly.
Heightened (8th) The status bonus increases to +3.
TOUCH OF CORRUPTION
FOCUS 1
UNCOMMON
CHAMPION
NECROMANCY
NEGATIVE
Cast [one-action] somatic
Range touch; Targets 1 willing undead creature or 1 living creature
You infuse the target with negative energy. If the target is
living, this deals 1d6 negative damage (basic Fortitude save);
on a failed save, the target also takes a –2 status penalty to
AC for 1 round.
If the target is a willing undead creature, the target instead
regains 6 Hit Points, and if you are the undead target, you also
gain a +2 status bonus to damage rolls for 1 round.
Heightened (+1) Increase the damage dealt to a living creature
by 1d6 or increase the Hit Points regained by undead by 6.
Monk
CLINGING SHADOWS STANCE
FOCUS 4
UNCOMMON
EVOCATION
MONK
SHADOW
STANCE
Cast [one-action] somatic
Duration until you leave the stance
You adopt the stance of clinging shadows. You can make shadow
grasp Strikes. These deal 1d4 negative damage; are in the brawling
group; and have the agile, grapple, reach, and unarmed traits.
While in clinging shadows stance, you gain a +2 circumstance
bonus to Athletics checks to Grapple, and to the DC for creatures
to Escape from you.
KI FORM
FOCUS 9
UNCOMMON
MONK
POLYMORPH
Cast [one-action] verbal
Duration 1 minute
Drawing from deep wells of spiritual power, you take on a
special ki form. In your ki form, your hair, feathers, skin, or
scales change color and begin to glow. In this form you gain a
fly Speed equal to your land Speed. Choose force, lawful (only
if you are lawful), negative, or positive damage. All your Strikes
deal 1d6 additional damage of the chosen type. Your entire body
is also surrounded by a glowing corona of the same color as your
inner ki; this is a light effect. Your corona is a 5-foot emanation
that deals 2d6 damage of the chosen type to creatures who
start their turn within the emanation. If the emanation overlaps
with a darkness effect, the corona’s glow attempts to counteract
the darkness effect. Regardless of the outcome, the corona can’t
attempt to counteract that effect again for 1 day. As a single
action, which has the concentrate trait, you can flare your
corona out to become a 30-foot emanation.
In your ki form, your emotions surge to the forefront and it’s
difficult to moderate your attacks. Your weapons and unarmed
attacks lose the nonlethal trait. You take a –2 status penalty
to saves against emotion effects but gain a +2 status bonus to
saves against all other mental effects.
MEDUSA’S WRATH
FOCUS 8
UNCOMMON
MONK
TRANSMUTATION
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal
You make an attack filled with a medusa’s petrifying power.
Make an unarmed Strike with the following additional effects.
Critical Success The target is slowed 2 and must attempt a
Fortitude save at the end of each of its turns; this ongoing
save has the incapacitation trait. On a failed save, the slowed
condition increases by 1 (2 on a critical failure). A successful
save reduces the slowed condition by 1. When a creature
is unable to act due to the slowed condition from medusa’s
wrath, it is petrified permanently. The spell ends if the
creature is petrified or the slowed condition is removed.
Success As critical success, but the target is initially slowed 1.
SHADOW’S WEB
FOCUS 7
UNCOMMON
EVOCATION
MONK
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal
Area 30-foot burst
Saving Throw Fortitude
Grasping darkness surges from you, dealing 14d4 negative
damage. Each creature in the area must attempt a
Fortitude save.
Critical Success The creature is unaffected.
Success The creature takes half damage and is enfeebled 1
for 1 round.
Failure The creature takes full damage and is enfeebled 2 for
1 round.
Critical Failure The creature takes double damage and is
stunned 1, enfeebled 2 for 1 round, and immobilized for 1
round or until it Escapes, whichever comes first.
Heightened (+1) The negative damage increases by 2d4.
Oracle
ACCESS LORE
FOCUS 3
UNCOMMON
CURSEBOUND
DIVINATION
FORTUNE
ORACLE
Mystery lore
Cast [one-action] somatic
Duration 1 minute
Spells
5
229
229
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Archetypes
Feats
Spells
items
glossary
& Index
