Archaeologist
Adventurers raid tombs for material gain, but true
archaeologists treasure the knowledge gained from such
sites. You might accomplish your goals with scholarly
learning, by training to overcome the tricks and traps set
by ancient peoples and rivals, through magical training,
or even with a bit of inexplicable luck.
Additional Feats: 4th Trap Finder (Core Rulebook
183); 10th Delay Trap (Core Rulebook 186)
ARCHAEOLOGIST DEDICATION
FEAT 2
ARCHETYPE
DEDICATION
Prerequisites trained in Perception, Society, and Thievery
You are a student of peoples and their histories, and are in
constant pursuit of knowledge and artifacts from the past.
You become an expert in Society and Thievery, and you gain
a +1 circumstance bonus to Recall Knowledge about ancient
history, peoples, and cultures.
Special You can’t select another dedication feat until you
have gained two other feats from the archaeologist archetype.
MAGICAL SCHOLASTICS
FEAT 4
ARCHETYPE
Prerequisites Archaeologist Dedication
While study is key to your success, a bit of magic is a helpful
tool in discovering the secrets of the past. You gain detect
magic, guidance, and read aura as occult innate cantrips.
SETTLEMENT SCHOLASTICS
FEAT 4
ARCHETYPE
SKILL
Prerequisites Archaeologist Dedication
Your studies open up new horizons. You become an expert in
a Lore skill about a specific settlement; if you were already
trained in that Lore skill, you also become trained in the Lore
skill for a different settlement of your choice. Choose a
single common or uncommon language prevalent in that
settlement. You learn that language.
Special You can take this feat multiple times. When
you take this feat again, choose a different settlement.
SCHOLASTIC IDENTIFICATION
FEAT 7
ARCHETYPE
SKILL
Prerequisites Archaeologist Dedication, master in Society
You have the knowledge needed to understand ancient texts
and cultural artifacts. You can use Society when Deciphering
Writing, no matter the type of writing you are examining.
You can also use Society to Identify Magic when examining a
magic item or location with cultural significance.
ARCHAEOLOGIST’S LUCK
FEAT 8
ARCHETYPE
FORTUNE
Prerequisites Archaeologist Dedication
Frequency once per hour
Trigger You fail a check against a trap, such as a Thievery
check to Disable the trap or a Reflex save to avoid its effects.
You are more than just skillful; your drive to find the secrets of
the past manifests as a strange kind of luck. Reroll the failed
check and use the new result.
GREATER MAGICAL SCHOLASTICS
FEAT 10
ARCHETYPE
Prerequisites Archaeologist Dedication, Magical Scholastics
You broaden your magical studies, allowing you to find
the right path, detect objects, and conceal those objects
from unscrupulous rivals. You can cast augury, locate, and
nondetection as occult innate spells, each once per day. You
can cast this nondetection spell only on an object, and it is
automatically heightened to the same spell level as your
cantrips from Magical Scholastics.
Advanced Player's Guide
156
156
