hunter’s vision warden spell (page 235). Increase the number
of Focus Points in your focus pool by 1.
TERRAIN TRANSPOSITION
FEAT 10
RANGER
Prerequisites warden spells
You are so connected to the wilderness that you can magically
jump from place to place within it. You gain the terrain
transposition warden spell (page 235). Increase the number of
Focus Points in your focus pool by 1.
12TH LEVEL
WARDEN’S FOCUS
FEAT 12
RANGER
Prerequisites warden spells
Your connection with your surroundings grows deeper as you
focus. If you have spent at least 2 Focus Points since the last
time you Refocused, you recover 2 Focus Points when you
Refocus instead of 1.
18TH LEVEL
WARDEN’S WELLSPRING
FEAT 18
RANGER
Prerequisites warden’s focus
You command unparalleled focus when you commune with
the world around you. If you have spent at least 3 Focus
Points since the last time you Refocused, you recover 3 Focus
Points when you Refocus instead of 1.
20TH LEVEL
ACCURATE FLURRY
FEAT 20
RANGER
Prerequisites Impossible Flurry
Requirements You are wielding two melee weapons,
each in a different hand.
You refine the precision of your unbelievable storm
of blows. When you perform an Impossible Flurry,
your first attack with each weapon instead takes the
multiple attack penalty as though you had already made
one attack this turn. All subsequent attacks take the
maximum multiple attack penalty, as though you
had already made two or more attacks this turn.
IMPOSSIBLE SNARES
FEAT 20
RANGER
Prerequisites Ubiquitous Snares
You can create endless shorter-lived snares, protecting your
lair or using them against foes. Once per minute, you can Craft
one of the snares you’ve prepared for quick
deployment without expending the
prepared snare. Once deployed, such a
snare lasts for 10 minutes before losing
its effectiveness.
WARDEN SPELLS
Your relationship with the world around you extends
from the physical to the magical. Certain feats grant you
warden spells, which are a type of focus spells. It costs 1
Focus Point (FP) to cast a focus spell. When you gain your
first warden spell, you also gain a focus pool of 1 FP. You
refill your focus pool during your daily preparations, and
you regain 1 FP by spending 10 minutes using the Refocus
activity to commune with nature.
Your warden spells are primal spells. When you first gain
a warden spell, you become trained in primal spell attacks
and spell DCs. Your spellcasting ability is Wisdom.
Focus spells are automatically heightened to half your
level rounded up. Taking feats can give you more focus
spells and increase the size of your focus pool, though your
focus pool can never hold more than 3 FP. The full rules for
focus spells appear on page 300 of the Core Rulebook.
Classes
2
133
133
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Archetypes
Feats
Spells
items
glossary
& index
