ORC
Orcs are forged in the fires of violence and conflict, often from the moment they are born.
As they live lives that are frequently cut brutally short, orcs revel in testing their strength
against worthy foes, whether by challenging a higher-ranking member of their community
for dominance or raiding a neighboring settlement. Many orcs seek glory as soon as they
can walk and carry a blade or club, taming wild beasts or hunting deadly monsters.
Orcs often struggle to gain acceptance among other
communities, who frequently see them as brutes. Those
who earn the loyalty of an orc friend, however, soon learn
that an orc’s fidelity and honesty are unparalleled. Orc
barbarians, fighters, and rangers are prized as gladiators
and mercenaries. While some human settlements might
be hesitant to accept an entire orc community into their
midst, a small handful of orc mercenaries can do the job of
an entire squad of human conscripts, so long as the orcs are
well fed and well paid. Though the belief that orcs are only
suited for battle is pervasive among other humanoids, the
harsh orc mentality comes from a long history of conflict
rather than a lack of ability in other areas.
Orc culture teaches that they are shaped by the
challenges they survive, and the most worthy survive the
most hardships. Orcs who attain both a long life and
great triumphs command immense respect.
If you want a character who is hardy, fearsome, and
excels at feats of physical prowess, you should play an orc.
YOU MIGHT...
• Eagerly meet any chance to prove your strength in a
physical contest.
• Believe that lies and treachery are for those who lack
the strength to seize what they want.
• View dying in glorious combat as preferable to a
mundane death from old age or illness.
OTHERS PROBABLY...
• See you as violent or lacking in discipline.
• Underestimate your intellect, cunning, and knowledge.
• Admire your forthrightness and blunt honesty.
PHYSICAL DESCRIPTION
Orcs are tall and powerfully built, with long arms and
stocky legs. Many orcs top 7 feet in height, though
they tend to adopt broad, almost bow-legged stances
and slouch forward at the shoulders. The combination
makes for a seeming contradiction, sharing an eye level
with most humanoids while simultaneously towering
over them. Orcs have rough skin, thick bones, and rock-
hard muscles, making them suited to war and other
physically demanding tasks. Despite the roughness of
their skin, orcs scar easily, and most orcs take great
pride in the scars they have accumulated. Orc skin color
is typically green and occasionally gray, though some
orcs have other skin colors that reflect adaptations to
their environments.
Orcs consider powerful builds and heavily scarred skin
attractive, regardless of gender. A powerful orc makes
Advanced Player's Guide
1616
