experiences and usually have low-light vision. An ability with this trait
can be used or selected only by gnomes. A weapon with this trait is
created and used by gnomes. 44, CR 42–45
goblin (trait) A creature with this trait can be one of several kinds of
creature, including goblins, hobgoblins, and bugbears. Goblins tend
to have darkvision. An ability with this trait can be used or chosen
only by goblins. A weapon with this trait is created and used by
goblins. 45, CR 46–49
good (trait) Good effects often manipulate energy from good-aligned Outer
Planes and are antithetical to evil divine servants or divine servants of
evil deities. A creature with this trait is good in alignment. An ability
with this trait can be selected or used only by good creatures.
half-elf (trait) A creature with this trait is part human and part elf. An
ability with this trait can be used or selected only by half-elves. CR
55–56
halfling (trait) A creature with this trait is a member of the halfling
ancestry. These small people are friendly wanderers considered to
be lucky. An ability with this trait can be used or selected only by
halflings. A weapon with this trait is created and used by halflings. 46,
CR 50–53
half-orc (trait) A creature with this trait is part human and part orc. An
ability with this trait can be used or selected only by half-orcs. CR
55–56
haunt (trait) A hazard with this trait is a spiritual echo, often of someone
with a tragic death. Putting a haunt to rest often involves resolving the
haunt’s unfinished business. A haunt that hasn’t been properly put to
rest always returns after a time.
healing (trait) A healing effect restores a creature’s body, typically by
restoring Hit Points, but sometimes by removing diseases or other
debilitating effects.
held item (magic item) 260–265, CR 572–576
heritage A choice made to further define your ancestry. CR 33

versatile heritage 28–29
hex (trait) A hex is a short-term effect generated on the fly from your
patron’s magic, requiring your familiar to draw from your patron. As
such, you can cast only one spell with the hex trait each turn; attempts
to cast a second hex spell on the same turn fail, and the spellcasting
actions are lost. 101
hostile action A hostile action is one that can harm or damage another
creature, whether directly or indirectly, but not one that a creature is
unaware could cause harm.
human (trait) A creature with this trait is a member of the human
ancestry. Humans are a diverse array of people known for their
adaptability. An ability with this trait can be used or selected only
by humans. 47, CR 54–59
humanoid (trait) Humanoid creatures reason and act much like humans.
They typically stand upright and have two arms and two legs.
illusion (trait) Effects and magic items with this trait are associated with
the illusion school of magic, typically involving false sensory stimuli.
CR 298
immunity An immunity causes a creature to ignore all damage, effects,
or conditions of a certain type. CR 451–453

temporary immunity CR 453
incapacitation (trait) An ability with this trait can take a character
completely out of the fight or even kill them, and it’s harder to use
on a more powerful character. If a spell has the incapacitation trait,
any creature of more than twice the spell’s level treats the result
of their check to prevent being incapacitated by the spell as one
degree of success better, or the result of any check the spellcaster
made to incapacitate them as one degree of success worse. If any
other effect has the incapacitation trait, a creature of higher level
than the item, creature, or hazard generating the effect gains the
same benefits.
incorporeal (trait) An incorporeal creature or object has no physical
form. It can pass through solid objects, including walls. When inside
an object, an incorporeal creature can’t perceive, attack, or interact
with anything outside the object, and if it starts its turn in an object,
it is slowed 1. Corporeal creatures can pass through an incorporeal
creature, but they can’t end their movement in its space.
An
incorporeal
creature
can’t
attempt
Strength-based
checks against physical creatures or objects—only against
incorporeal ones—unless those objects have the ghost touch
property rune. Likewise, a corporeal creature can’t attempt
Strength-based checks against incorporeal creatures or objects.
Incorporeal creatures usually have immunity to effects or conditions
that require a physical body, like disease, poison, and precision
damage. They usually have resistance against all damage (except
force damage and damage from Strikes with the ghost touch property
rune), with double the resistance against non-magical damage.
infused (trait) You created an alchemical item with the infused trait using
your infused reagents, and it has a limited time before it becomes inert.
Any nonpermanent effects from your infused alchemical items, with
the exception of afflictions such as slow-acting poisons, end when you
make your daily preparations again. CR 72, 75
injury (trait) This poison is delivered by damaging the recipient. CR 550
Invest an Item (activity) You invest your energy in an item as you don
it. CR 531
invested (trait) A character can wear only 10 magical items that have
the invested trait. None of the magical effects of the item apply if
the character hasn’t invested it, nor can it be activated, though the
character still gains any normal benefits from wearing the physical
item (like a hat keeping rain off their head). CR 531
investigator (class) 54–65

multiclass archetype 151
investigator (trait) This trait indicates abilities from the investigator class.
item An object you carry, hold, or use. Items sometimes grant an item
bonus or penalty to certain checks. 246–265

adventuring gear 248–249, CR 287–292

alchemical items 252–255, CR 543–554

magic items 256–265, CR 531–535

snares 256, CR 589–591

treasure tables 250–251, CR 536–542

weapons 248, CR 278–286
kobold (trait) A creature with this trait is a member of the kobold ancestry.
Kobolds are reptilian humanoids who are usually Small and typically
have darkvision. An ability with this trait can be used or selected only
by kobolds. 12–15
lawful (trait) Lawful effects often manipulate energy from law-aligned
Outer Planes and are antithetical to chaotic divine servants or divine
servants of chaotic deities. A creature with this trait is lawful in
alignment. An ability with this trait can be selected or used by lawful
creatures only.
light (trait) Light effects overcome non-magical darkness in the area, and
can counteract magical darkness. You must usually target darkness
magic with your light magic directly to counteract the darkness, but
some light spells automatically attempt to counteract darkness.
lineage (trait) A feat with this trait indicates a character’s descendance
from a particular type of creature. You can have only one lineage feat.
You can select a lineage feat only at 1st level, and you can’t retrain into
or out of these feats. 28
linguistic (trait) An effect with this trait depends on language
comprehension. A linguistic effect that targets a creature works only if
the target understands the language you are using.
litany (trait) Litanies are special devotion spells, typically used by
champions and requiring a single action, that usually give temporary
immunity to further litanies.
magical (trait) Something with the magical trait is imbued with magical
energies not tied to a specific tradition of magic. A magical item
radiates a magic aura infused with its dominant school of magic.
Some items or effects are closely tied to a particular tradition of
magic. In these cases, the item has the arcane, divine, occult, or primal
trait instead of the magical trait. Any of these traits indicate that the
item is magical. CR 535
manipulate (trait) You must physically manipulate an item or make
gestures to use an action with this trait. Creatures without a suitable
appendage can’t perform actions with this trait. Manipulate actions
often trigger reactions.
master spellcasting benefits These benefits are granted by spellcasting
archetypes. 150
mechanical (trait) A hazard with this trait is a constructed physical object.
CR 521
mental (trait) A mental effect can alter the target’s mind. It has no effect
on an object or a mindless creature.
metamagic (trait) Actions with the metamagic trait, usually from
metamagic feats, tweak the properties of your spells. You must use a
metamagic action directly before Casting the Spell you want to alter.
If you use any action (including free actions and reactions) other than
Cast a Spell directly after, you waste the benefits of the metamagic
action. Any additional effects added by a metamagic action are part of
the spell’s effect, not of the metamagic action itself.
minion (trait) Minions are creatures that directly serve another creature.
A creature with this trait can use only 2 actions per turn and can’t
use reactions. Your minion acts on your turn in combat, once per
turn, when you spend an action to issue it commands. For an animal
companion, you Command an Animal; for a minion that’s a spell or
magic item effect, like a summoned minion, you Sustain a Spell or
Sustain an Activation; if not otherwise specified, you issue a verbal
command as a single action with the auditory and concentrate traits.
Advanced Player's Guide
268
268
