BARD
This section presents new feats for bards of any muse, as well as a new muse
that draws inspiration from the furious, calamitous dance of battle.
New Muse
The following muse is available to bards in addition to
those found on page 97 of the Core Rulebook.
WARRIOR
The battlefield is your stage, the clang of steel, your song.
Your muse engages in countless battles, whether reveling
in combat or resigned to its necessity. If your muse is a
creature, it might be an otherworldly soldier, such as a
planetar, archon, cornugon, or purrodaemon. If it’s a deity,
it might be Gorum. As a bard with a warrior muse, you train
for battle in addition to performance, and you prepare
your allies for the dangers of battle. You might even wade
into the thick of things with them. You gain the Martial
Performance feat and add fear to your spell repertoire.
New Bard Feats
1ST LEVEL
HYMN OF HEALING
FEAT 1
BARD
You learn the hymn of healing composition spell (page 228),
which imbues your music with rich melodies that help your
allies recover from harm.
MARTIAL PERFORMANCE
FEAT 1
BARD
Prerequisites warrior muse
Your muse has taught you how to handle a wider variety of
weapons than most bards, empowering you to effortlessly
blend your performance into combat even with the most
inelegant tools. You become trained with all martial weapons.
If you gain the bard weapon expertise class feature, your
proficiency rank with martial weapons increases to expert.
WELL-VERSED
FEAT 1
BARD
You’re resilient to performative influences that aren’t your
own. You gain a +1 circumstance bonus to saving throws
against effects with the auditory, illusion, linguistic, sonic, or
visual traits.
2ND LEVEL
DIRECTED AUDIENCE
FEAT 2
BARD
You can shape the area of your composition spells. Whenever
you cast a composition spell whose area is an emanation,
you can change the spell’s area to a cone 10 feet larger, to a
maximum of twice the original area. For example, you could
modify a composition spell that affects a 30-foot emanation
to affect a 40-foot cone, but a 5-foot emanation could only
become a 10-foot cone.
SONG OF STRENGTH
FEAT 2
BARD
Prerequisites warrior muse
Your performances inspire strength in your allies. You learn
the song of strength composition cantrip (page 228).
4TH LEVEL
COMBAT READING [one-action]
FEAT 4
BARD
SECRET
You use a performer’s cold reading techniques, aura reading,
and other tricks to discover your foe’s strengths and
weaknesses. The GM rolls a secret Occultism check for you
against the Deception or Stealth DC (whichever is higher) of
an enemy of your choice who is engaged in combat and isn’t
concealed from you, hidden from you, or undetected by you.
The GM might apply a penalty for the distance between you
and the enemy. The enemy is then temporarily immune to
your Combat Reading for 1 day.
Critical Success The GM chooses and tells you two of the
following pieces of information about the enemy: which of
the enemy’s weaknesses is highest, which of the enemy’s
saving throws has the lowest modifier, one immunity the
enemy has, or which of the enemy’s resistances is highest.
In the event of a tie, the GM should pick one at random.
Success The GM chooses one piece of information from the
above list to tell you about the enemy.
Critical Failure The GM gives you false information (the GM
makes up the information).
COURAGEOUS ADVANCE [one-action]
FEAT 4
AUDITORY
BARD
CONCENTRATE
METAMAGIC
Prerequisites warrior muse
With a rousing call, you exhort an ally to advance. If your
next action is to cast the inspire courage composition
cantrip, one ally who gains a status bonus from the spell can
immediately use a reaction to Stride.
RITUAL RESEARCHER
FEAT 4
UNCOMMON
BARD
Prerequisites enigma muse, expert in Occultism
Careful research into the art of rituals has made you better
at performing them. You gain a +2 circumstance bonus to
Advanced Player's Guide
112
112
