You have built a reputation for yourself in your social identity.
Choose one archetype that you meet the prerequisites for.
You gain that archetype’s dedication feat and can select feats
from that archetype, even if you haven’t yet gained enough
feats in the vigilante archetype to take another dedication
feat. These feats become part of your social identity and
gain the social trait—for instance, a fighter vigilante could
take the wizard dedication feat and have a wizard social
identity. Using these feats in your social identity doesn’t
risk exposing your vigilante identity, but using them in your
vigilante identity could put you at risk for exposure.
STARTLING APPEARANCE [one-action]
FEAT 6
ARCHETYPE
EMOTION
FEAR
MENTAL
VIGILANTE
Prerequisites Vigilante Dedication
Requirements You are completely unnoticed by the target
creature.
You can startle foes who are unaware of your presence.
Make a Strike against your target. That creature is flat-footed
against this Strike, as normal. If your Strike hits, the target
remains flat-footed for the rest of your turn and is frightened
1 (frightened 2 on a critical hit).
QUICK CHANGE
FEAT 7
ARCHETYPE
Prerequisites master in Deception, Vigilante Dedication
You can shift between your identities with ease. Instead
of spending 1 minute to change your identity, you can
now do so as a 3-action activity. If you are legendary
in Deception, you can perform this change as a
1-action activity.
SUBJECTIVE TRUTH
FEAT 7
ARCHETYPE
SKILL
Prerequisites master in Deception, Vigilante
Dedication
Your disparate identities allow you to defeat magic that
detects lies. As long as what you say is true from the point
of view of your current identity, you can say it even under
effects like zone of truth that force you to speak the truth.
MANY GUISES
FEAT 8
ARCHETYPE
Prerequisites master in Deception, Vigilante Dedication
You can take on any number of mundane guises. Whenever
you change your identity, instead of taking on your social
or vigilante identity, you can become someone completely
ordinary. This identity isn’t a specific individual—rather,
you become a nondescript member of your ancestry, of any
gender, with a neutral alignment and a mundane occupation
such as common laborer, farmer, or peasant. Spells and
abilities detect you as if you were this ordinary identity,
rather than either of your two real identities, unless they
succeed at a counteract check against your Deception DC.
You can’t use either social abilities or vigilante abilities while
in this identity.
FRIGHTENING APPEARANCE
FEAT 12
ARCHETYPE
VIGILANTE
Prerequisites expert in Intimidation, Startling Appearance
Your dramatic appearances can frighten bystanders. When
you make a Startling Appearance, you can also attempt to
Demoralize each opponent within 10 feet to whom you were
unnoticed before your Strike.
STUNNING APPEARANCE
FEAT 16
ARCHETYPE
VIGILANTE
Prerequisites Startling Appearance
Your sudden appearance leaves your foe unable to respond.
When you use Startling Appearance, if your foe’s level is equal
to or lower than yours, they are also stunned 1 on a hit, or
stunned 2 on a critical hit.
Archetypes
3
197
197
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Archetypes
Feats
Spells
items
glossary
& Index
