words on a slate. As you write, the writing also appears on
the other slate in its matched pair, no matter how far away
it is, as long as it is on the same plane. Wiping one slate
clean erases the writing from both slates. Each slate can be
activated once per hour.
SLEEVES OF STORAGE
ITEM 4+
CONJURATION
EXTRADIMENSIONAL
INVESTED
MAGICAL
Usage worn garment; Bulk L
This loose robe has wide, voluminous sleeves that each contain
an extradimensional space. These spaces each function as a
bag of holding that can hold up to 5 Bulk of items (for a total
of 10 Bulk), though no individual item can be of more than 1
Bulk; the sleeves grow slightly heavy as you reach maximum
capacity. You can add or remove an item from a sleeve with a
single hand free as an Interact action.
If a sleeve is completely empty, you can place your own
familiar into that extradimensional space. It can survive
comfortably in your sleeve for up to 1 hour, after which it
begins to suffocate. While in your sleeve, it can’t be affected or
targeted by any effects, but you don’t benefit from any master
abilities. A familiar can exit the sleeve of its own volition with a
single action that has the manipulate and move traits. You can’t
place any other creature into your sleeves, nor can you place
your familiar in a sleeve if it’s larger than Tiny. If your familiar is
in your sleeve, you can’t place any items in the sleeve.
Type sleeves of storage; Level 4; Price 100 gp
Type greater sleeves of storage; Level 9; Price 600 gp
Each sleeve can hold up to 20 Bulk of items, and a familiar can
survive within a sleeve for up to 4 hours.
SPELLGUARD BLADE
ITEM 7
ABJURATION
MAGICAL
Price 320 gp
Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk L
The guard of this +1 striking main-gauche is
inscribed with eldritch glyphs that guard against
magic. When you are benefiting from the +1
circumstance bonus to AC from this weapon’s parry
trait, you also apply that circumstance bonus to your
saving throws against spells that target you.
SPIRITSIGHT CROSSBOW
ITEM 8
UNCOMMON
CONJURATION
MAGICAL
TELEPORTATION
Price 450 gp
Usage held in 2 hands; Bulk 2
This +1 striking ghost touch crossbow has an array of
crystalline lenses and silver fittings along the stock and feels
strangely light.
Activate [one-action] envision; Frequency once per minute; Effect You
aim through the crossbow’s crystalline lenses, gaining
imprecise vision onto the Ethereal Plane with a range of
60 feet in addition to your normal senses for the rest of
your turn. While this effect lasts, your next Strike with the
spiritsight crossbow can also affect targets on the Ethereal
Plane during the first 60 feet of its flight.
STAFF OF IMPOSSIBLE VISIONS
ITEM 6+
UNCOMMON
ILLUSION
MAGICAL
STAFF
Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk 1
This bizarre staff is made from oak, capped with a cluster
of eye-shaped gemstones that seem to move and undulate
at the corner of your vision. While wielding the staff, you
can peer through the eyes, using your normal visual senses
(including any benefits of spells affecting your vision, like
see invisibility). You can maneuver the staff to see things
around corners, at higher elevations, or in places where
the staff can fit but your head can’t. This doesn’t provide
sufficient line of effect to target creatures around corners.
The eyes are as vulnerable as your eyes and can be affected
by anything that alters your vision, such as a blinding flash
of light.
Activate Cast a Spell; Effect You expend a number of charges
from the staff to cast a spell from its list.
Type staff of impossible visions; Level 6; Price 230 gp
• Cantrip daze
• 1st fear, phantom pain
• 2nd augury, paranoia
Type greater staff of impossible visions; Level 12; Price 1,800 gp
• 3rd hypnotic pattern, paralyze
• 4th countless eyes (page 217), phantasmal killer
• 5th strange geometry (page 226)
Type major staff of impossible visions; Level 16; Price 10,000 gp
• 6th blinding fury (page 216), phantasmal calamity
• 7th visions of danger, warp mind
Type true staff of impossible visions; Level 20; Price 70,000 gp
• 8th spirit song, uncontrollable dance
• 9th unfathomable song, weird
Craft Requirements Supply one casting of all listed levels of
all listed spells.
STAFF OF NATURE’S VENGEANCE
ITEM 10+
EVOCATION
MAGICAL
STAFF
Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk 1
This stout staff is made from gnarled hawthorn. When used as
a weapon, a staff of nature’s vengeance permanently has the
effects of shillelagh.
Activate Cast a Spell; Effect You expend a number of charges
from the staff to cast a spell from its list.
Type staff of nature’s vengeance; Level 10; Price 900 gp
• Cantrip tanglefoot
• 1st shocking grasp, spider sting
• 2nd flaming sphere, vomit swarm (page 227)
• 3rd earthbind, wall of thorns
• 4th bestial curse (page 215), spike stones (page 225)
Type greater staff of nature’s vengeance; Level 14; Price
4,000 gp
• 5th cloudkill, control water
• 6th purple worm sting, tangling creepers
Type major staff of nature’s vengeance; Level 18; Price
24,000 gp
• 7th sunburst, volcanic eruption
• 8th earthquake, punishing winds
Items
6
263
263
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Archetypes
Feats
Spells
items
glossary
& Index
