This doesn’t increase your party’s Speed during an encounter or
allow your party to ignore difficult terrain during an encounter.
NO CAUSE FOR ALARM [three-actions]
FEAT 1
AUDITORY
CONCENTRATE
EMOTION
GENERAL
LINGUISTIC
MENTAL
SKILL
Prerequisites trained in Diplomacy
You attempt to reduce panic. Attempt a Diplomacy check,
comparing it to the Will DC of creatures in a 10-foot emanation
around you who are frightened. Each of them is temporarily
immune for 1 hour.
Critical Success Reduce the creature’s frightened value by 2.
Success Reduce the creature’s frightened value by 1.
PICK UP THE PACE
FEAT 3
GENERAL
Prerequisites Constitution 14
You lead by example and can help others push themselves
beyond their normal limits. When Hustling in a group during
exploration mode, your group can Hustle for up to 20 additional
minutes, to a maximum of the amount of time the character
with the highest Constitution modifier could Hustle alone.
PILGRIM’S TOKEN
FEAT 1
GENERAL
SKILL
Prerequisites trained in Religion
You carry a small token of protection from a site holy to your
faith, or you touched your religious symbol to a relic or altar at
such a site. So long as this token is in your possession, when
you tie an adversary’s initiative roll, you go first.
Special If you select this feat at 1st level, you receive your
pilgrim’s token for free. Alternately, if you have a religious
symbol, it is already attuned, as described above.
If you select this feat at a later level, or if you lose your
pilgrim’s token, you must purchase or Craft a replacement and
attune it at a holy site. Such a token usually costs at least 2 sp,
and the attunement takes 10 minutes of prayer and requires
a successful DC 20 Religion check. Your GM might adjust the
price and DC depending on the token’s material and quality
and the religious significance of the site; the more significant
the location, the easier the attunement.
PRESCIENT CONSUMABLE
FEAT 7
GENERAL
Prerequisites Prescient Planner
You can predict which consumables you might need in advance.
When using Prescient Planner, you can procure a consumable
item from your backpack, instead of a piece of adventuring
gear. The consumable item must still be common with a level
no higher than half your level, and its Bulk must be low enough
that carrying it wouldn’t have made you encumbered.
PRESCIENT PLANNER
FEAT 3
GENERAL
Cost the Price of the chosen item
Requirements You haven’t used this ability since the last time
you were able to purchase goods.
You regularly create convoluted plans and contingencies, using
your resources to enact them. You take 1 minute to remove your
backpack, then carefully remove an item you hadn’t previously
declared that you purchased—you intuited that you would come
to need the item and purchased it at the latest opportunity. The
item must be a piece of adventuring gear (from the table on page
288 of the Core Rulebook or other sources of adventuring gear),
and can’t be a weapon, armor, alchemical item, magic item, or
other treasure. It must be common with a level no higher than
half your level, and its Bulk must be low enough that carrying it
wouldn’t have made you encumbered.
QUICK CONTACTS
FEAT 2
GENERAL
SKILL
Prerequisites expert in Society; Connections or Underworld
Connections
You know where to go, who to talk to, and how to make
new connections, fast. Upon entering a new settlement,
spending 1 day of downtime allows you to build enough
connections to make use of the Connections or Underworld
Connections feats. If you’re legendary in Society, you can
form the required connections within 1 hour of entering a
new settlement.
RAPID AFFIXTURE
FEAT 7
GENERAL
SKILL
Prerequisites master in Crafting
You take only 1 minute to Affix a Talisman. If you’re legendary
in Crafting, you can Affix a Talisman as a 3-action activity.
RISKY SURGERY
FEAT 1
GENERAL
SKILL
Prerequisites trained in Medicine
Your surgery can bring a patient back from the brink of death,
but might push them over the edge. When you Treat Wounds,
you can deal 1d8 slashing damage to your patient just before
applying the effects of Treat Wounds. If you do, you gain a +2
circumstance bonus to your Medicine check to Treat Wounds,
and if you roll a success, you get a critical success instead.
ROOT MAGIC
FEAT 1
GENERAL
SKILL
Prerequisites trained in Occultism
Your talismans ward against foul magic. During your daily
preparations, you can assemble a small pouch with bits of
herbs, hair, sacred oils, and other ritual ingredients, which
you give to one ally. The first time that day the ally attempts
a saving throw against a spell or haunt, they gain a +1
circumstance bonus to the roll. This bonus increases to +2 if
you’re an expert in Occultism or +3 if you’re legendary.
SCHOOLED IN SECRETS
FEAT 1
GENERAL
SKILL
Prerequisites trained in Occultism
You notice the signs and symbols that members of mystery
cults and other secret societies use to declare their affiliation
Advanced Player's Guide
208
208
