ANCESTORS
The voices of generations past speak to you, and
you hear their words. You might resent the constant
interruption, or you might revere the spirits of those
who came before. Perhaps you hail from a culture with
strong ancestral traditions, such as the Shoanti Skoan-
Quah (Skull Clan), a traditional dwarven community
that worships Torag’s family pantheon, or a group that
reveres Erastil or Pharasma. You might commune with
powerful psychopomps who shepherd souls to the
afterlife, with the River of Souls itself, or with those
spirits who have become trapped outside of the great
cycle of spiritual rebirth. You learn from their whispers
and the fragments of their memories, but opening your
mind to their knowledge and experience also allows them
to meddle in your worldly affairs.
Mystery Benefit The whispers of your ancestors have
bestowed additional knowledge upon you. You gain an
additional ancestry feat at 1st level and another additional
ancestry feat at 11th level. These feats can’t be ones that
grant physiological effects, such as additional senses or
unarmed attacks.
Trained Skill Society
Granted Cantrip guidance
Revelation Spells initial: ancestral touch; advanced: ancestral
defense; greater: ancestral form
Related Domains death, family
CurSe of anCeStral Meddling
The ancestral spirits you commune with haunt you
and meddle with your belongings and actions, either
out of a well-intentioned (but ultimately detrimental)
attempt to assist you, as punishment for your audacity
in circumventing the traditional means of achieving
divine power, for their own amusement, or a mixture of
the above. Your hair, clothing, and belongings constantly
shift and stir, seemingly of their own volition.
Minor Curse One of your ancestors becomes predominant
in their meddling. The first time you gain this effect each
day, roll 1d4 on Table 2–4: Ancestral Influence on page 75 to
determine which type of ancestor becomes predominant. This
predominant ancestor guides you to use their preferred type
of action. When you try to use one of the types of actions
listed for the other ancestors, you must succeed at a DC 4 flat
check. On a failure, you spend the action but gain no effect
(though you don’t lose the spell if you were Casting a Spell).
If your action would take 1 minute or longer, it’s long enough
that you can overcome the meddling, and you don’t need to
attempt a flat check.
During combat or another tense, round-by-round encounter,
other ancestors wrestle for control of your actions. When you
roll initiative, and then at the end of each of your turns during
the encounter, roll 1d4 and change your predominant ancestor
appropriately. Once the encounter ends, you return to the
influence of the ancestor you first rolled for the day.
Classes
2
73
73
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Archetypes
Feats
Spells
items
glossary
& index
