With obsequious words and begging gestures, you convince your foe you’re less of a
threat. You attempt to Feint against a creature. Unlike a normal Feint, the creature can
be within 30 feet instead of in your melee reach, and you make your check against its
Will DC instead of its Perception DC.
SNARE GENIUS
FEAT 5
KOBOLD
Prerequisites expert in Crafting, Snare Crafting
Your expertise makes your snares more powerful, and you can place them quickly
and efficiently. Each day during your daily preparations, you can prepare three snares
from your formula book for quick deployment; if the snare normally takes 1 minute to
Craft, you can Craft it with 3 Interact actions. Snares prepared in this way don’t cost
you any resources to Craft. The number of snares you can prepare this way increases
to four if you are a master in Crafting, and to five if you are legendary.
When you Craft and deploy a snare that deals damage, any creature that critically
fails its saving throw against the snare’s initial effect and takes damage becomes
flat-footed until the end of its next turn.
9TH LEVEL
BETWEEN THE SCALES
FEAT 9
KOBOLD
Underestimating you is a grave mistake, but it’s one others keep making. You’ve
learned to take advantage of slips in your foes’ defenses. When you Strike a
flat-footed creature using a melee weapon or unarmed attack that has the agile and
finesse traits, it gains the backstabber trait.
DRACOMANCER
FEAT 9
KOBOLD
Your inborn arcane power manifests as your exemplar’s
most time-honored spells. Choose one 1st-level spell and one
2nd-level spell from those listed for a dragon spellcaster of your
draconic exemplar’s type, as presented on pages 104–126 of the
Bestiary (such as alarm, blur, invisibility, and true strike for a black
dragon exemplar). You can cast each of these spells once per day as arcane
innate spells. You gain the trained proficiency rank in arcane spell attack rolls
and spell DCs, and your key spellcasting ability is Charisma.
DRAGON’S BREATH
FEAT 9
KOBOLD
Prerequisites Kobold Breath
You can put more effort into your Kobold Breath to channel greater draconic power,
though it takes more out of you. When you use Kobold Breath, you can increase the
damage dice to d8s and increase the area to 60 feet for a line breath weapon or 30
feet for a cone. If you do, you can’t use Kobold Breath again for 1 hour.
13TH LEVEL
ELITE DRACOMANCER
FEAT 13
KOBOLD
Prerequisites Dracomancer
Your magic rivals that of lesser dragons. Choose one 3rd-level spell and
one 4th-level spell from those listed for a dragon spellcaster of your
draconic exemplar’s type, as on pages 104–126 of the Bestiary (such
as paralyze and stinking cloud for a black dragon exemplar). You can
cast each of these spells once per day as arcane innate spells.
KOBOLD ADVENTURERS
Kobolds often adventure in pursuit
of the power, lore, and treasure that
they feel befit their disproportionately
large egos. When adventurers, militias,
or careless tyrants shatter a kobold
community, the survivors often latch
onto new families, seeking emotional
solace—and sometimes revenge.
Typical kobold backgrounds include
artisan, artist, criminal, hunter,
miner, scout, and tinker from the
Core Rulebook, plus bandit, cultist,
scavenger, and servant from this
book. Kobolds excel as bards, rangers,
rogues, and sorcerers, though they
also often channel their ingenuity as
alchemists or wizards.
Ancestries & Backgrounds
1
1515
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Archetypes
Feats
Spells
items
glossary
& index
