you’re downwind from the creature or halve the range if
you’re upwind.
In addition, you gain a +2 circumstance bonus to
Perception checks to Seek a creature or object within the
range of your scent.
SEWER RAT
You come from a long line of ysoki from a community
based in the sewers beneath a large settlement. You are
immune to the disease filth fever. Each of your successful
saving throws against a disease or poison reduces its stage
by 2, or by 1 for a virulent disease or poison. Each critical
success against an ongoing disease or poison reduces its
stage by 3, or by 2 for a virulent disease or poison.
SHADOW RAT
Your ancestors lived in dark spaces underground, granting
you dark fur and a vaguely unnatural mien that unnerves
sapient creatures and frightens animals. You gain the trained
proficiency rank in Intimidation and can use Intimidation
to Coerce animals. When you Demoralize an animal, you
don’t take a penalty for not sharing a language with it. If
you would automatically become trained in Intimidation
(from your background or class, for example), you become
trained in another skill of your choice.
Animals’ attitudes toward you begin one degree worse
than normal, usually starting at unfriendly instead of
indifferent for domesticated animals, and hostile instead
of unfriendly for wild animals.
Ratfolk Ancestry Feats
At 1st level, you gain one ancestry feat, and you gain an
additional ancestry feat every 4 levels thereafter (at 5th,
9th, 13th, and 17th levels). As a ysoki, you select from
among the following ancestry feats.
1ST LEVEL
CHEEK POUCHES
FEAT 1
RATFOLK
Your cheeks are stretchy, and you can store up to four items of
light Bulk or less in these cheek pouches. None of these items
can have a dimension longer than 1 foot. As long as you have at
least one item in your cheek pouches, your speech is noticeably
difficult to understand. Placing an item in your cheek pouch or
retrieving one is an Interact action. You can empty your mouth
with a single action, causing everything you had stored in your
cheek pouches to fall to the ground in your square.
PACK RAT
FEAT 1
RATFOLK
Years of packing for travel have taught you how to cram vast
quantities into small spaces. You can fit an additional 50%
of the listed Bulk capacity into mundane storage containers
or vehicles. For example, you can fit 6 Bulk in a backpack,
or 12 Bulk in a chest. This doesn’t alter the items’ Bulk, nor
does it change how much you can store in a magical or
extradimensional storage space, such as a bag of holding.
RAT FAMILIAR
FEAT 1
RATFOLK
You have a pet rat that has become magically bonded to you.
You gain a familiar using the rules on page 217 of the Core
Rulebook, and this familiar must be a rat. It still gets the
benefits of familiar abilities, but its base form remains a rat.
RATFOLK LORE
FEAT 1
RATFOLK
Years of experience among ratfolk communities have made
you nimble, and you’ve learned to run and hide when enemies
threaten. You gain the trained proficiency rank in Acrobatics
and Stealth. If you would automatically become trained in one
of those skills (from your background or class, for example),
you instead become trained in a skill of your choice. You also
become trained in Ratfolk Lore.
RATSPEAK
FEAT 1
RATFOLK
To you, the squeaking of rats and other rodents makes a
strange kind of sense. You can ask questions of, receive
answers from, and use the Diplomacy skill with rodents,
including beavers, mice, porcupines, rats, and squirrels,
but not with other mammals, such as dogs or bats. The GM
determines which animals count as rodents.
TINKERING FINGERS
FEAT 1
RATFOLK
You’re good with your hands and can quickly improvise a fix
for broken or damaged equipment. You’re trained in Crafting.
If you would automatically become trained in Crafting (from
your background or class, for example), you instead become
trained in a skill of your choice. You can Repair an item without
using a repair kit without taking the –2 circumstance penalty,
improvising tools from whatever you have at hand.
VICIOUS INCISORS
FEAT 1
RATFOLK
You’ve let your incisors grow long enough to serve as
formidable weapons. You gain a jaws unarmed attack that
deals 1d6 piercing damage. Your jaws are in the brawling
group and have the finesse and unarmed traits. Unlike most
creatures, you can file down your teeth and regrow them later
on, enabling you to select this feat at any level, and to retrain
into and out of this feat.
WARREN NAVIGATOR
FEAT 1
RATFOLK
You’re particularly good at solving mazes and navigating twists
and turns. You gain the trained proficiency rank in Survival.
If you would automatically become trained in Survival (from
your background or class, for example), you become trained
in another skill of your choice. When you Sense Direction or
Advanced Player's Guide
22
22
