This chapter expands your starting character options from those in the Core
Rulebook, including each of the following sections.
Ancestries
Expand beyond the populous ancestries found in the Core Rulebook. The
ancestry entry format is described on page 33 of the Core Rulebook.
• Catfolk (page 8), or amurruns, are humanoid felines who believe they were
created to protect the wilderness from great danger.
• Kobolds (page 12) are small reptiles connected to dragons and fond of traps.
• Orcs (page 16) are warlike and honest people who respect strength,
toughness, and survival above all.
• Ratfolk (page 20), or ysoki, pack into tight spaces and are markedly
industrious and fastidious.
• Tengus (page 24) are corvid-like humanoids with an affinity for blades
and the rumored mystical ability to absorb bad luck.
Versatile Heritages
While the Core Rulebook presented heritages as subgroups of a particular
ancestry, certain heritages can occur across all ancestries. For instance, if your
mother was a hag, you could be a changeling whether you’re a human, orc, or
catfolk. Rules for versatile heritages are found on page 28.
• Changelings (page 30) are the children of hags, left as foundlings and
subject to the danger of their mother’s tempting call.
• Dhampirs (page 32) are part vampires due to an early connection to
vampire blood.
• Planar Scions (page 34) are descended from a distant planar ancestor or
tied strongly to another plane. This book details the celestial aasimars,
psychopomp-tied duskwalkers, and fiendish tieflings.
Ancestry Options
New heritages and ancestry feats expand on the Core Rulebook ancestries.
• Dwarves (page 42)
• Elves (page 43)
• Gnomes (page 44)
• Goblins (page 45)
• Halflings (page 46)
• Humans (page 47)
Backgrounds
This chapter contains new backgrounds for characters from all walks of
life, from bandits to teachers. This section also includes a set of special rare
backgrounds that you and your GM might agree to use in a campaign.
• Common Backgrounds (page 48)
• Rare Backgrounds (page 50)
CHAPTER 1:
ANCESTRIES & BACKGROUNDS
Your character’s ancestry and background tell the story of who you were before you
became an adventurer, as well as who you might strive to become one day. But not
everyone fits neatly into the most common ancestries or backgrounds. You might be a
birdlike tengu, a scaled kobold, or a curious catfolk, with a one-of-a-kind background in
your story. Perhaps your ancestry has mixed with the blood of angels or demons. Only
you can decide!
UNCOMMON ANCESTRIES
AND HERITAGES
Each new ancestry in this book is
uncommon. Though uncommon
elements of the game are usually
acquired during play, you choose your
ancestry and heritage at the beginning
of the game. This means you should
talk to your group and GM about
which uncommon ancestries and
heritages make sense for the story.
In the piratical Shackles, tengus are a
regular sight. But they’re even more
common in the eastern continent of
Tian Xia, where halflings and dwarves
are uncommon! Even if your chosen
ancestry isn’t particularly common
in the area where the story takes
place, most times you can work
with your GM and the other players
to find a great way to incorporate
that character into the narrative.
For these options, the uncommon
trait just means you should take
that extra step to talk about it first.
In a Pathfinder Adventure Path, the
accompanying player’s guide might
include information about additional
uncommon options that make sense
for that story and its region and grant
you automatic access to play them
during those adventures.
RARE AND UNIQUE BACKGROUNDS
Some backgrounds have enough story
weight that you need to work with
the rest of your group to determine if
they’re right for a particular story, like
being heir to a throne. You can find
more information about these special
backgrounds on page 50.
Ancestries & Backgrounds
1
7
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Archetypes
Feats
Spells
items
glossary
& index
