Failure As success, but the creature takes full damage and a
–10-foot circumstance penalty.
Critical Failure The creature is absorbed into the shadows,
where it can be seen below the surface; it takes double
damage and is immobilized for 1 round or until it Escapes.
Heightened (+1) The damage increases by 1d6.
DIM THE LIGHT
FOCUS 1
UNCOMMON
DARKNESS
EVOCATION
SORCERER
Cast [reaction] somatic; Trigger You cast a darkness or shadow spell.
You magnify the darkness from the triggering effect, causing
the ambient light level to flicker briefly so you can slip from
sight. You can immediately attempt a Stealth check to Hide,
and you can become hidden to a creature even if you don’t
have cover and aren’t otherwise concealed from that creature.
You cease being hidden at the end of your turn unless you
move into cover or become concealed before then.
ESTABLISH WARD
FOCUS 5
UNCOMMON
ABJURATION
SORCERER
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal
Area 30-foot burst
Duration 1 minute
You bind a part of your essence to your surroundings, creating
a warded area that grants you power within it, but drains you
outside of it. While within the area, you can make nature’s
wrath Strikes by commanding plants, wind, rocks, and other
natural features to attack enemies. These are melee Strikes
that use your spell attack modifier, can target any creature
within the ward, and deal bludgeoning, piercing, or slashing
damage equal to 2d8 plus your spellcasting ability modifier.
Upon Casting the Spell, you can immediately make a single
nature’s wrath Strike. You are quickened while inside the
ward, and can use the additional action only to make nature’s
wrath Strikes. You are slowed 1 while outside the area.
Heightened (+2) The area increases by 5 feet, and the Strikes
deal an additional 1d8 damage.
GENIE’S VEIL
FOCUS 1
UNCOMMON
ABJURATION
SORCERER
Cast [reaction] somatic; Trigger A creature within range is attacked.
Range 30 feet; Targets 1 willing creature
With a flourish, you fulfill a creature’s wish for protection,
bending reality to keep them from harm. The target vanishes
in a burst of brightly colored smoke and sparkles, reappearing
an instant later. They become concealed against the triggering
attack and until the end of the current creature’s turn.
HEART’S DESIRE
FOCUS 3
UNCOMMON
EMOTION
ILLUSION
MENTAL
SORCERER
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal
Range 60 feet; Targets 1 creature
Saving Throw Will; Duration varies
You surround your target with wondrous illusions of their
greatest desires, which distract them from reality. The target
must attempt a Will save.
Critical Success The target disbelieves the illusion and
is unaffected.
Success For 1 round, the target is stupefied 2 and takes a –2
status penalty to any checks it makes to determine the
effects of reactions.
Failure For 1 minute, the target is stupefied 2 and can’t
use reactions.
Critical Failure As failure, and all spaces are difficult terrain
for the target.
Heightened (+2) You can target one additional creature.
NYMPH’S TOKEN
FOCUS 1
UNCOMMON
ENCHANTMENT
SORCERER
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal
Duration 1 minute
You grant an ally a token of favor. You create a token, such as a
lock of your hair or a flower, that persists for the spell’s duration;
as part of Casting the Spell, you can Interact to pass the token
to an ally within your reach. As long as the ally has the token on
their person, they gain a +1 status bonus to Performance checks
and Will saves. You can Dismiss the spell as a free action.
Heightened (4th) As long as the ally has the token on their
person, you can cast spells that have a range of touch on
them at a range of 30 feet.
SEPULCHRAL MASK
FOCUS 1
UNCOMMON
DIVINATION
EMOTION
MENTAL
SORCERER
VISUAL
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal
Area 5-foot emanation; Targets enemies in the area
Saving Throw Will; Duration 1 minute
You manifest a supernatural funerary mask, granting you a +1
status bonus to Will saving throws against emotion effects for
1 minute. Its somber countenance forces your foes to confront
their regrets and sins. Each enemy in the area when you Cast
the Spell or that starts its turn in the area takes 1d4 mental
damage and must attempt a Will save.
Critical Success The creature is unaffected.
Success The creature takes half damage.
Failure The creature takes full damage and takes a –1 status
penalty to Will saves against emotion effects for 1 round.
Critical Failure The creature takes double damage and a –1 status
penalty to Will saves against emotion effects for 1 minute.
Heightened (+2) Increase the mental damage by 2d4 and the
emanation’s radius by 5 feet.
SHEPHERD OF SOULS
FOCUS 5
UNCOMMON
HEALING
NECROMANCY
SORCERER
Cast [reaction] verbal; Trigger A living creature within 30 feet takes
damage.
Range 30 feet; Targets 1 creature
You stay the hand of fate for one not yet destined to die,
sacrificing some of your own vitality to heal them. You lose
up to 15 Hit Points as a sacrifice, and the target reduces the
damage by twice the number of Hit Points sacrificed. If this
reduction exceeds the amount of damage, the target recovers
Hit Points equal to the excess amount.
Advanced Player's Guide
236
236
