Dedication feat becomes a mature animal companion,
granting it additional capabilities. During an encounter,
even if you don’t use the Command an Animal action, your
animal companion can still use 1 action on your turn to Stride
or Strike.
QUICK MOUNT [one-action]
FEAT 4
ARCHETYPE
SKILL
Prerequisites Cavalier Dedication, expert in Nature
Requirements You are adjacent to a creature that is at least
one size larger than you and is willing to be your mount.
You and your mount can spring into action at a moment’s
notice. You Mount the creature and Command an Animal to
issue it an order of your choice.
DEFEND MOUNT [reaction]
FEAT 6
ARCHETYPE
Prerequisites Cavalier Dedication
Trigger An enemy makes an attack roll against your mount
while you’re riding it.
You interpose yourself between an attacker and your
mount, defending your mount from harm. Use your own
AC against the triggering attack instead your mount’s AC. If
the triggering attack hits, you take the effects of the attack
instead of your mount.
MOUNTED SHIELD
FEAT 6
ARCHETYPE
Prerequisites Cavalier Dedication
You’ve trained with your shield to defend both yourself and
your mount. When you Raise a Shield while mounted, both
you and your mount gain the shield’s circumstance bonus
to AC. If you have the Shield Block reaction, you can use it
in response to your mount taking damage, as long as you’re
CAVALIER PLEDGES
Many cavaliers pledge themselves in service to a specific
organization or individual, such as a noble family or
sovereign ruler, a knightly order or another organization,
or a particular ideal. A cavalier pledged to an order or
ideal must uphold its edicts and is beholden to any
anathema it has; for example, a cavalier pledged to the
druid’s animal order would be tied to that anathema,
while a cavalier pledged to the church of Abadar would
be held to the same standards as a cleric of that god. If
you pledge yourself to an entity or cause without a stated
anathema, you should work with your GM to determine
the edicts and anathema associated with your pledge.
Cavaliers who have pledged themselves can gain
access to certain abilities related to that pledge, such as
Cavalier’s Banner. If you violate the anathema of your
pledge, you lose access to those feats until you benefit
from an atone ritual. Changing the subject of your pledge
is equivalent to retraining a class feature.
Cavalier
You are a skilled and dedicated warrior of the battlefield
who specializes in fighting astride a powerful animal
companion that serves as your mount. You and your
mount are an unparalleled team, moving with shared
intent to become a powerful force on the battlefield.
You might wield a banner in the name of a greater
organization, a liege, or an ideal you uphold, or you
might fight solely to further enrich your own prestige,
reputation, and coffers.
CAVALIER DEDICATION
FEAT 2
ARCHETYPE
DEDICATION
Prerequisites trained in Nature or Society
You gain a young animal companion (Core Rulebook 214)
that serves as your mount. You can choose from animal
companions with the mount special ability, as well as any
additional options from your pledge, as determined by your
GM. You must choose an animal companion that’s at least one
size larger than you, but if the animal usually starts as Small,
you can begin with a Medium version of that animal (changing
no statistics other than its size).
Special You cannot select another dedication feat until you
have gained two other feats from the cavalier archetype. This
restriction is waived if you have pledged to the organization
associated with the other dedication feat. For example, if you
are pledged to a Hellknight order, you could take Hellknight
dedication feats without needing to gain other feats from the
cavalier archetype first.
CAVALIER’S BANNER
FEAT 4
UNCOMMON
ARCHETYPE
EMOTION
MENTAL
VISUAL
Prerequisites Cavalier Dedication
Requirements You have pledged your service to a specific
organization or ideal (see Cavalier Pledges sidebar).
You fly the banner of your pledge from your mount, raising
your allies’ spirits. You and all allies within 30 feet gain a +1
circumstance bonus to Will saves and DCs against fear effects.
If your banner is destroyed or removed, allies within 30 feet
become frightened 1.
CAVALIER’S CHARGE [two-actions]
FEAT 4
ARCHETYPE
FLOURISH
Prerequisites Cavalier Dedication
Requirements You are riding your mount.
You Command an Animal to order your mount to Stride
twice. At any point during this movement, you can Strike
one enemy within reach or within the first range increment
of a ranged weapon. You gain a +1 circumstance bonus to
your attack roll.
IMPRESSIVE MOUNT
FEAT 4
ARCHETYPE
Prerequisites Cavalier Dedication
You’ve trained your mount to become a powerful force on
the battlefield. The mount you gained through the Cavalier
Advanced Player's Guide
164
164
