of leads. If any subjects are creatures, this check usually
uses the highest DC among their Deception and Will DCs.
If no subjects are creatures, but at least one is an item, the
DC is usually a hard DC for the level of the highest-level
item. If neither case applies, the DC is usually a hard expert
or hard master DC (22 or 32). Once you try to Connect the
Dots between two particular leads, you can never try to
Connect the Dots between those same leads again unless
the GM allows it after you’ve learned a substantial amount
of new information.
Critical Success The GM tells you how connected the two leads
are to one another: highly connected, somewhat connected,
tangentially connected, or not connected. The GM also tells
you one specific way in which they’re connected, if they are.
Success As critical success, but the GM doesn’t tell you a
specific connection.
Failure Your results are inconclusive.
Critical Failure You misconstrue the information. As success,
but the GM provides an incorrect degree of connection.
PREDICTIVE PURCHASE
FEAT 6
INVESTIGATOR
You have just the thing for the situation. You gain the Prescient
Planner and Prescient Consumable feats (page 208). When
using Prescient Planner, you can pull out the item as a 2-action
activity to remove your backpack (or a similar container) and
draw the item, rather than taking 1 minute.
THOROUGH RESEARCH
FEAT 6
INVESTIGATOR
When you succeed at a Recall Knowledge check, you learn an
additional fact about the subject. When you critically succeed
at a Recall Knowledge check, you can gain even more additional
information or context than normal, at the GM’s discretion.
8TH LEVEL
BLIND-FIGHT
FEAT 8
INVESTIGATOR
Prerequisites master in Perception
Your battle insights make you more aware of concealed and
invisible opponents. You don’t need to succeed at a flat check to
target concealed creatures. You’re not flat-footed to creatures
that are hidden from you (unless you’re flat-footed to them for
reasons other than the hidden condition), and you need only a
successful DC 5 flat check to target a hidden creature.
While you’re adjacent to an undetected creature of your
level or lower, it is instead only hidden from you.
CLUE THEM ALL IN
FEAT 8
INVESTIGATOR
You can clue in all your allies at once. When you use the Clue
In reaction, any of your allies who are attempting the same
check to investigate a lead receive the circumstance bonus from
Clue In. If you use this ability during an encounter, they must
attempt their check within 1 round of when you Clued them In.
WHODUNNIT?
FEAT 8
UNCOMMON
INVESTIGATOR
Frequency once per day
You carefully consider your case and narrow down some
of the details. When you Pursue a Lead, you can spend 10
minutes instead of 1 minute to ask two questions of the GM
as you complete the activity. The GM must answer truthfully
with “yes” or “no,” though if the answer would be misleading
or have no practical application to your investigation the GM
can answer “immaterial.” You can’t use Whodunnit? more than
once for the same lead, even across different days.
Your questions must come from the following list, applying
to either the creature or the clue you found:
• Was the clue left by a [creature trait]? (Choose a creature
trait such as humanoid, undead, or dwarf; this trait must
be accurate as of the time the clue was left.)
• Was this clue left within the last hour?
• Was this clue left within the last day?
• Was the creature that left the clue in a heightened emotional
state when it left the clue?
• Did the creature attempt to conceal this clue?
10TH LEVEL
JUST ONE MORE THING [one-action]
FEAT 10
FORTUNE
INVESTIGATOR
Requirements Your most recent action was to Feint, Request,
or Demoralize, and you failed but didn’t critically fail.
After your attempt to influence someone goes poorly, you
add another bit of information or ask a pointed question,
possibly salvaging your previous attempt. Reroll the failed
check and use the new result. If the target of the failed check
is the subject of a lead you’re pursuing, double your bonus
from Pursue a Lead on the rerolled check. That creature is
temporarily immune to Just One More Thing for 1 day.
You can also use this action if you failed, but didn’t
critically fail, at a check to Lie, Gather Information, Make
an Impression, or Coerce. In this case, rather than spending
1 action, adding Just One More Thing takes you half the
amount of time you initially spent on the check, to a minimum
of 1 more round.
ONGOING STRATEGY
FEAT 10
INVESTIGATOR
Prerequisites strategic strike
You’re constantly studying small aspects of everyone’s
movements, even if you don’t have a stratagem in place
ahead of time. On any Strike for which you didn’t Devise a
Stratagem, you still deal precision damage equal to your
number of strategic strike damage dice so long as the weapon
or unarmed attack you used is one that would have let you
use your Intelligence modifier had you Devised a Stratagem.
SUSPECT OF OPPORTUNITY [reaction]
FEAT 10
INVESTIGATOR
Frequency once per hour
Classes
2
63
63
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Archetypes
Feats
Spells
items
glossary
& index
