If given no commands, minions use no actions except to defend
themselves or to escape obvious harm. If left unattended for long
enough, typically 1 minute, mindless minions usually don’t act, animals
follow their instincts, and sapient minions act how they please.
misfortune (trait) A misfortune effect detrimentally alters how you roll
your dice. You can never have more than one misfortune effect alter a
single roll. If multiple misfortune effects would apply, the GM decides
which is worse and applies it. If a fortune effect and a misfortune
effect would apply to the same roll, the two cancel each other out, and
you roll normally. CR 449
monk (class) 128–131, CR 154–165

ki spells 229, CR 401–402
monk (trait) Abilities with this trait are from the monk class. A weapon
with this trait is primarily used by monks.
morph (trait) Effects that slightly alter a creature’s form have the morph
trait. Any Strikes specifically granted by a morph effect are magical.
You can be affected by multiple morph spells at once, but if you morph
the same body part more than once, the second morph effect attempts
to counteract the first (in the same manner as two polymorph effects,
described in that trait).
Your morph effects might also end if you are polymorphed and the
polymorph effect invalidates or overrides your morph effect. The GM
determines which morph effects can be used together and which can’t.
mount An animal companion with this special ability supports its rider.
CR 214
mounted combat CR 478
move (trait) An action with this trait involves moving from one space to
another. CR 473–475
multiclass (trait) Archetypes with the multiclass trait represent
diversifying your training into another class’s specialties. You can’t
select a multiclass archetype’s dedication feat if you are a member of
the class of the same name. 149–154, CR 219
mutagen (trait) An elixir with the mutagen trait temporarily transmogrifies
the subject’s body and alters its mind. A mutagen always conveys one
or more beneficial effects paired with one or more detrimental effects.
Mutagens are polymorph effects, meaning you can benefit from only
one at a time. 253, CR 546
necromancy (trait) Effects and magic items with this trait are associated
with the necromancy school of magic, typically involving forces of life
and death.
negative (trait) Effects with this trait heal undead creatures with negative
energy, deal negative damage to living creatures, or manipulate
negative energy.
negative healing (trait) A creature with negative healing draws life from
negative energy rather than positive energy. It is damaged by positive
damage and is not healed by positive healing effects. It does not take
negative damage, and it is healed by negative effects that heal undead.
nonlethal (trait) An effect with this trait is nonlethal. Damage from a
nonlethal effect knocks a creature out rather than killing it. CR 453
nonlethal (weapon trait) Attacks with this weapon are nonlethal,
and are used to knock creatures unconscious instead of kill them.
You can use a nonlethal weapon to make a lethal attack with a –2
circumstance penalty.
oath (trait) Oaths add an additional tenet to your code. You can usually
have only one feat with this trait. CR 109
occult (trait) This magic comes from the occult tradition, calling upon
bizarre and ephemeral mysteries. Anything with this trait is magical.
CR 299
occult spell list 212–213, CR 311–314
oil (trait) Oils are magical gels, ointments, pastes, or salves that are
typically applied to an object and are used up in the process. 258,
CR 561–562
ooze (trait) Oozes are creatures with simple anatomies. They tend to
have low mental ability scores and immunity to mental effects and
precision damage.
open (trait) These maneuvers work only as the first salvo on your turn.
You can use an open only if you haven’t used an action with the attack
or open trait yet this turn.
oracle (class) 66–81

multiclass archetype 152

revelation spells 229–234
oracle (trait) This trait indicates abilities from the oracle class.
orc (trait) A creature with this trait is a member of the orc ancestry. These
green-skinned people tend to have darkvision. An ability with this trait
can be used or selected only by orcs. An item with this trait is created
and used by orcs. 16–19
orichalcum (material) CR 579
parry (weapon trait) This weapon can be used defensively to block
attacks. While wielding this weapon, if your proficiency with it is
trained or better, you can spend an Interact action to position your
weapon defensively, gaining a +1 circumstance bonus to AC until the
start of your next turn. CR 283
physical (damage type) A grouping of bludgeoning, piercing, and slashing
damage. CR 452
planar scion These versatile heritages represent people descended from a
distant planar ancestor or tied strongly to another plane. 34–41
plant (trait) Vegetable creatures have the plant trait. They are distinct
from normal plants. Magical effects with this trait manipulate or
conjure plants or plant matter in some way. Effects that manipulate
plants have no effect in an area with no plants.
poison (trait) An effect with this trait delivers a poison or deals poison
damage. An item with this trait is poisonous and might cause an
affliction. 254, CR 457–458, 550–554
polymorph (trait) These effects transform the target into a new form. A
target can’t be under the effect of more than one polymorph effect
at a time. If it comes under the effect of a second polymorph effect,
the second polymorph effect attempts to counteract the first. If it
succeeds, it takes effect, and if it fails, the spell has no effect on that
target. Any Strikes specifically granted by a polymorph effect are
magical. Unless otherwise stated, polymorph spells don’t allow the
target to take on the appearance of a specific individual creature, but
rather just a generic creature of a type or ancestry.
If you take on a battle form with a polymorph spell, the special
statistics can be adjusted only by circumstance bonuses, status
bonuses, and penalties. Unless otherwise noted, the battle form
prevents you from casting spells, speaking, and using most
manipulate actions that require hands. (If there’s doubt about
whether you can use an action, the GM decides.) Your gear is
absorbed into you; the constant abilities of your gear still function,
but you can’t activate any items.
positive (trait) Effects with this trait heal living creatures with positive
energy, deal positive energy damage to undead, or manipulate
positive energy.
potion (trait) A potion is a magical liquid activated when you drink it.
257–259, CR 562–564
prediction (trait) Effects with this trait determine what is likely to happen
in the near future. Most predictions are divinations.
press (trait) Actions with this trait allow you to follow up earlier attacks.
An action with the press trait can be used only if you are currently
affected by a multiple attack penalty. Some actions with the press trait
also grant an effect on a failure. The effects that are added on a failure
don’t apply on a critical failure. If your press action succeeds, you can
choose to apply the failure effect instead. (For example, you may wish
to do this when an attack deals no damage due to resistance.) Because
a press action requires a multiple attack penalty, you can’t use one
when it’s not your turn, even if you use the Ready activity.
primal (trait) This magic comes from the primal tradition, connecting
to the natural world and instinct. Anything with this trait is magical.
CR 299
primal spell list 213, CR 314–315

initial proficiencies CR 68
rage (trait) You must be raging to use abilities with the rage trait, and they
end automatically when you stop raging. CR 87
ranged trip (weapon trait) This weapon can be used to Trip with the
Athletics skill at a distance up to the weapon’s first range increment. The
skill check takes a –2 circumstance penalty. You can add the weapon’s
item bonus to attack rolls as a bonus to the check. As with using a melee
weapon to trip, a ranged trip doesn’t deal any damage when used to
Trip. This trait usually appears only on a thrown weapon. 248
ranger (class) 132–133, CR 166–177

warden spells 234–235
ranger (trait) This indicates abilities from the ranger class.
rare (trait) This rarity indicates that a rules element is very difficult to
find in the game world. A rare feat, spell, item or the like is available
to players only if the GM decides to include it in the game, typically
through discovery during play. CR 13
ratfolk (trait) A creature with this trait is a member of the ratfolk ancestry.
Ratfolk are humanoids who resemble rats. An ability with this trait can
be used or selected only by ratfolk. 20–23
Refocus (activity) Regain 1 Focus Point. CR 300
resistance Reduces damage you take of a certain type. CR 453
revelation (trait) Effects with this trait see things as they truly are.
revelation spell Revelation spells are focus spells cast by oracles.
Revelation spells have the cursebound trait, which means they
progress the severity of your oracular curse when cast, and you can’t
cast them if you don’t have an oracular curse. 69–70, 229–234
rogue (class) 134–137, CR 178–189
rogue (trait) This indicates abilities from the rogue class.
Glossary & Index
269
269
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Archetypes
Feats
Spells
items
glossary
& Index
