Choose two ability boosts. One must be to Constitution or
Wisdom, and one is a free ability boost.
You’re trained in the Nature skill and the Plains Lore skill.
You gain the Express Rider skill feat (page 206).
PILGRIM
BACKGROUND
In your youth, you made several pilgrimages to important
shrines and holy sites. You might have been a mendicant friar,
a seller of holy relics (real or fraudulent), or just a simple farmer
following the dictates of your faith. Whatever the aims of your
wanderings now, your faith still protects you on the road.
Choose two ability boosts. One must be to Wisdom or
Charisma, and one is a free ability boost.
You’re trained in the Religion skill and the Lore skill for your
patron deity. You gain the Pilgrim’s Token skill feat (page 208).
REFUGEE
BACKGROUND
You come from a land very distant from the one you now find
yourself in, driven by war, plague, or simply in the pursuit of
opportunity. Regardless of your origin or the reason you left
your home, you find yourself an outsider in this new land.
Adventuring is a way to support yourself while offering hope
to those who need it most.
Choose two ability boosts. One must be to Constitution or
Wisdom, and one is a free ability boost.
You’re trained in the Society skill and a Lore skill related to
the settlement you came from. You gain the Streetwise skill feat.
ROOT WORKER
BACKGROUND
Some ailments can’t be cured by herbs alone. You learned
ritual remedies as well, calling on nature spirits to soothe
aches and ward off the evil eye. Taking up with adventurers
has given you company on the road, as well as protection from
those who would brand you a fake—or worse.
Choose two ability boosts. One must be to Intelligence or
Wisdom, and one is a free ability boost.
You’re trained in the Occultism skill and the Herbalism
Lore skill. You gain the Root Magic skill feat (page 208).
SCAVENGER
BACKGROUND
You’ve made a living sorting through the things society
throws away. You might have scavenged simply to survive,
or plied a trade as a ragpicker, dung carter, or the like. While
you’ve left that life behind, you still keep one eye on the
ground out of habit.
Choose two ability boosts. One must be to Intelligence or
Wisdom, and one is a free ability boost.
You’re trained in the Survival skill and the Lore skill for the
settlement you grew up scavenging in. You gain the Forager
skill feat.
SERVANT
BACKGROUND
You held a role of servitude, waiting on nobles and engendering
their trust as one of the confidantes of the household. You
might have walked away on good terms, or perhaps you know
dangerous secrets about your former masters. Regardless, you’re
adventuring for a change and finding that in this new role, the
skills you’ve learned now serve you.
Choose two ability boosts. One must be to Dexterity or
Charisma, and one is a free ability boost.
You’re trained in the Society skill and the Labor Lore skill.
You gain the Read Lips skill feat.
SQUIRE
BACKGROUND
You trained at the feet of a knight, maintaining their gear and
supporting them at tourneys and in battle. Now you search for
a challenge that will prove you worthy of full knighthood, or
you’ve spurned pomp and ceremony to test yourself in honest,
albeit less formal, combat.
Choose two ability boosts. One must be to Strength or
Constitution, and one is a free ability boost.
You’re trained in the Athletics skill and your choice of the
Heraldry Lore or Warfare Lore skill. You gain the Armor Assist
skill feat (page 203).
TAX COLLECTOR
BACKGROUND
Reviled but required, you were sent when taxes were
due. Performing your job might have required travel and
persuasion, or perhaps you were responsible for collecting
taxes on trade. Either way, it sometimes meant dirty hands,
and adventuring seemed the next logical step to you.
Choose two ability boosts. One must be to Strength or
Charisma, and one is a free ability boost.
You’re trained in the Intimidation skill and the Lore skill
for the settlement that employed you. You gain the Quick
Coercion skill feat.
TEACHER
BACKGROUND
You are incredibly knowledgeable, skilled, and perhaps even
trained to teach children and adults about the world and
its wonders. From books to classes, you’re committed to
imparting knowledge to all. Not everything can be taught or
learned from a book, though, so you’ve become an adventurer
to learn subjects more directly and bring that wisdom back to
your students.
Choose two ability boosts. One must be to Intelligence or
Wisdom, and one is a free ability boost.
You’re trained in your choice of the Performance or Society
skills, along with the Academia Lore skill. You gain the
Experienced Professional skill feat.
WARD
BACKGROUND
When you were young, you became the ward of another
house—boarded, fed, and educated, but never quite a part of
the family. Perhaps you had to tend to their needs in return
for feeding and raising you, or perhaps you were provided for
but disregarded. Now, adventuring is your chance to grow and
roam free.
Choose two ability boosts. One must be to Constitution or
Charisma, and one is a free ability boost.
You’re trained in the Performance skill and the Genealogy
Lore skill. You gain the Fascinating Performance skill feat.
Ancestries & Backgrounds
1
49
49
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Archetypes
Feats
Spells
items
glossary
& index
