You move with grace in flight and can perform amazing aerial
stunts. You gain a +2 circumstance bonus to Acrobatics checks
to Maneuver in Flight and can combine two maneuvers into
a single action, such as reversing direction while making a
steep ascent or descent or hovering in gale-force winds. The
DC of the Acrobatics check is equal to the DC of the most
difficult maneuver + 5. If you’re legendary in Acrobatics, you can
combine three such maneuvers into a single action; the DC of
the Acrobatics check is equal to the DC of the most difficult
maneuver + 10. Regardless of the combination, these maneuvers
rarely allow you to move farther than your fly Speed.
ARMOR ASSIST
FEAT 1
GENERAL
SKILL
Prerequisites trained in Athletics or Warfare Lore
After your service aiding armored combatants, you are practiced
in helping yourself and others don heavy gear. You can attempt
an Athletics or Warfare Lore check with a DC determined by the
GM (but usually 15 for common armor, DC 20 for uncommon
armor, and DC 25 for rare armor) to halve the time you take to
don armor. You can halve an ally’s time to don armor by working
with them to don the armor and succeeding at an Athletics or
Warfare Lore check against the same DC.
ARMORED STEALTH
FEAT 2
GENERAL
SKILL
Prerequisites expert in Stealth
You have learned techniques to adjust and modify your armor
and movements to reduce the noise you make. When you wear
non-noisy armor with which you are trained, your penalty to
Stealth checks is reduced by 1 (to a minimum penalty of 0). If
you’re a master in Stealth, reduce the penalty by 2, and if you’re
legendary, reduce the penalty by 3. If your armor has the noisy
trait, instead of reducing the penalty to Stealth checks, you
ignore the effects of the noisy trait, enabling you to remove the
penalty with a sufficient Strength score as normal.
ASSURED IDENTIFICATION
FEAT 2
GENERAL
SKILL
Prerequisites expert in Arcana, Nature, Occultism, or Religion
You rarely misidentify an item. When using Arcana, Nature,
Occultism, or Religion checks to Identify Magic, if you roll a
critical failure, you get a failure instead. If you would misidentify
a cursed item because you roll a success but not a critical success
(Gamemastery Guide 90), you simply can’t identify it instead.
BATTLE PLANNER
FEAT 2
GENERAL
SKILL
Prerequisites expert in Warfare Lore
You are constantly drawing up plans and battle scenarios,
assembling strategies and gathered intelligence for later use.
When you scout an enemy’s position or receive a detailed
report from an ally who scouted the enemy’s position, if you
have a clear indication of the number, position, and identities
of your potential foes, you can spend 1 minute to come up with
a battle plan that takes such potential factors into account and
reduces the role luck plays in the equation. Roll a Warfare Lore
check. As long as the information was accurate and remains
accurate when you roll initiative against those enemies, you
can use the Warfare Lore result you previously rolled for your
initiative roll; if you do, this is a fortune effect.
BIOGRAPHICAL EYE
FEAT 7
GENERAL
SECRET
SKILL
Prerequisites master in Society
In even a brief conversation or social interaction, you pick
up on subtle social and visual cues to learn a great deal
about a person’s origin and history. You might notice bits of
green under the person’s fingernails and determine they’re
an herbalist, a pin indicating their membership in a secret
society, or something similar. You pick up on only details that
have to do with their societal role, so you might learn the city
district where a vampire lives, but wouldn’t learn any of their
weaknesses, nor necessarily even that they are a vampire.
Spend 1 minute in the presence of someone you haven’t
met before, or haven’t met since you first gained Biographical
Eye, then attempt a DC 30 Society check. You gain a +1
circumstance bonus to the check if you engaged the person
in conversation during this time. If the person is deliberately
trying to conceal their nature or present a false identity, you
learn about their false biography rather than their true one
unless the result of your Society check exceeds their Will DC.
Critical Success You learn the creature’s profession, their
specialty within that profession, and a major accomplishment
or controversy from their career. You also learn the nation
and settlement where they live, as well as the district in a
city large enough to have districts. In addition, you learn the
nation or settlement where they spent their formative years.
Success You learn the creature’s profession and specialty
within that profession. You learn the nation or settlement
where they normally live.
Failure You learn the creature’s profession and the region of
the world they hail from, but no more.
Critical Failure You learn a piece of erroneous information
about the creature.
BON MOT [one-action]
FEAT 1
AUDITORY
CONCENTRATE
EMOTION
GENERAL
LINGUISTIC
MENTAL
SKILL
Prerequisites trained in Diplomacy
You launch an insightful quip at a foe, distracting them. Choose
a foe within 30 feet and roll a Diplomacy check against the
target’s Will DC.
Critical Success The target is distracted and takes a –3 status
penalty to Perception and Will saves for 1 minute. The target
can end the effect early with a retort to your Bon Mot. This
can either be a single action that has the concentrate trait
or an appropriate skill action to frame their retort. The GM
determines which skill actions qualify, though they must
take at least 1 action. Typically, the retort needs to use a
linguistic Charisma-based skill action.
Success As critical success, but the penalty is –2.
Critical Failure Your quip is atrocious. You take the same
Feats
4
203
203
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Archetypes
Feats
Spells
items
glossary
& Index
