exact match for the activating chemical, it takes on a bright
blue hue, while staying transparent in areas where there is no
activating component present.
GHOST INK
ITEM 1
ALCHEMICAL
CONSUMABLE
Price 3 gp
Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk L
Activate 10 minutes (Interact)
This pale-blue ink dries rapidly, becoming fully
transparent 1 minute after application. The ink glows
red when exposed to heat, such as that from a torch or
other open flame. This glow lasts only as long as the
ink is exposed to heat, after which the ink becomes
invisible again. The crafter of the ghost ink can
alter the formula slightly to instead make the ink
sensitive to sunlight, starlight, magical light, or
heatless light created by an alchemical effect such
as a sunrod.
While the text isn’t glowing, a creature closely
examining a surface marked with ghost ink can
detect the presence of the ink with a successful
DC 25 Perception check. On a critical success, they
can make out the ink well enough to use Society to
Decipher Writing. One vial of ghost ink is sufficient to write a
page worth of text.
ORIGIN UNGUENT
ITEM 2
ALCHEMICAL
CONSUMABLE
Price 6 gp
Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk L
Activate [one-action] Interact
This shimmering, violet unguent forms mild chemical bonds
between objects with a matching composition. You apply the
adhesive to two objects, or to an object and a creature. You
can check if the two share an origin (such as if they were
broken from the same whole, or if a poison sample or body
part came from the same creature) by holding them together
with the unguent between; if they match, the unguent
becomes sticky.
SKINSTITCH SALVE
ITEM 7
ALCHEMICAL
CONSUMABLE
HEALING
Price 55 gp
Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk L
This sticky salve stubbornly holds wounds closed and
encourages swift natural healing. You can activate the salve
in either of the following ways.
Activate [one-action] Interact; Effect You Administer First Aid without
requiring healer’s tools. You either gain a +2 item bonus to
the Medicine check, or you can use the skinstitch salve’s
Medicine modifier of +13 instead of your own.
Activate [free-action] Interact; Trigger You Treat Wounds or use Battle
Medicine; Effect You gain a +2 item bonus to the triggering
Medicine check. If you roll a success on the Medicine check,
you get a critical success instead.
SOVEREIGN GLUE
ITEM 7
ALCHEMICAL
CONSUMABLE
Price 55 gp
Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk L
Activate 1 minute (Interact)
This peculiar amber glue bonds two surfaces together almost
inseparably. A single flask covers an area up to 1 square
foot and must be used all at once to form a single bond
between two surfaces. If the activation is interrupted, the
bond fails and the glue is wasted.
Once two surfaces are joined with
sovereign glue, they can be separated only
with a successful DC 50 Athletics check. The
adhered objects tend to break before the
glue does unless they’re particularly durable,
though a creature determined to separate the
objects can break off the parts connected by the
sovereign glue and later Repair the objects.
Sovereign glue can affect creatures only if they
are willing, and its bond can be harmlessly broken
by carefully exfoliating the outermost layer of skin or
waiting a short while for the skin to shed.
TIMELESS SALTS
ITEM 4
ALCHEMICAL
CONSUMABLE
Price 14 gp
Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk L
Activate [one-action] Interact
You sprinkle these salts onto a single object up to 10 cubic feet
in volume and no more than 40 Bulk to preserve it for 1 week.
The object doesn’t decay, and effects that require the object to be
fresh don’t count the time passing during this duration as having
elapsed. When sprinkled on a corpse, this extends the period in
which a creature can be revived by magic, as well as the wait
time required before a corpse can be targeted again with speak
with dead. The salts prevent ordinary pests from consuming
the target (such as maggots for a corpse or moths for a piece of
clothing). Any creature can use an Interact action to disperse the
salts from an unattended object and end this effect.
UNIVERSAL SOLVENT
ITEM 5+
ALCHEMICAL
CONSUMABLE
Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk L
Activate [one-action] Interact
Originally formulated as a means of dissolving sovereign glue,
this powerful solvent can break almost any adhesive’s grip.
As universal solvent is particularly effective against sovereign
glue, it automatically dissolves sovereign glue. It attempts to
counteract any other adhesives, such as tanglefoot bags, with
a counteract modifier depending on the type.
Type moderate; Level 5; Price 21 gp
The serum has a counteract modifier of +9.
Type greater; Level 12; Price 325 gp
The serum has a counteract modifier of +19.
Type major; Level 18; Price 3,250 gp
The serum has a counteract modifier of +28.
Items
6
255
255
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Archetypes
Feats
Spells
items
glossary
& Index
