KEY TERMS
You’ll see these terms in many swashbuckler abilities.
Finisher: Finishers are spectacular finishing moves that
use your panache. You can use a finisher only if you have
panache, and you lose your panache immediately after
performing a finisher. Once you use a finisher, you can’t use
actions that have the attack trait for the rest of your turn.
Some actions with the finisher trait also grant an effect on
a failure. Effects added on a failure don’t apply on a critical
failure. If your finisher action succeeds, you can still choose
to apply the failure effect instead. For example, you might
do this when an attack deals no damage due to resistance.
Flourish: Actions with this trait are special techniques
that require too much exertion for you to perform frequently.
You can use only 1 action with the flourish trait per turn.
Stance: A stance is a general combat strategy that you
enter by using an action with the stance trait, and you
remain in that stance for some time. A stance lasts until you
get knocked out, until its requirements (if any) are violated,
until the encounter ends, or until you enter a new stance,
whichever comes first. After you use an action with the
stance trait, you can’t use another one for 1 round. You can
enter or be in a stance only in encounter mode.
Battledancer: You can Step as a free action immediately
after the finisher.
Braggart: If the foe was temporarily immune to your
Demoralize, their temporary immunity ends.
Fencer: The foe is flat-footed until your next turn.
Gymnast: If the foe is grabbed, restrained, or prone,
you gain a circumstance bonus to the damage roll equal
to twice the number of weapon damage dice.
Wit: The foe takes a –2 circumstance penalty to attack
rolls against you until the start of your next turn.
SWASHBUCKLER EXPERTISE
9TH
You perform swashbuckling techniques with exceptional
flair, making them harder to resist. Your proficiency rank
for your swashbuckler class DC increases to expert.
CONTINUOUS FLAIR
11TH
While not equal to the heights of your panache in combat,
you have a dramatic flair about you in any situation.
Whenever you succeed at a check during exploration that
would have granted you panache in combat, you gain a +1
circumstance bonus to further checks for actions that would
grant you panache in combat. This benefit ends when the
exploration changes to a different scene (as determined by
the GM) or shifts to an encounter or downtime.
VIGILANT SENSES
11TH
Through your adventures, you’ve developed keen
awareness and attention to detail. Your proficiency rank
for Perception increases to master.
IMPROVED EVASION
13TH
Your ability to elude danger is matchless. Your proficiency
rank for Reflex saves increases to legendary. When you
roll a critical failure on a Reflex save, you get a failure
instead. When you roll a failure on a Reflex save against
a damaging effect, you take half damage.
LIGHT ARMOR EXPERTISE
13TH
You’ve learned how to dodge while wearing light or
no armor. Your proficiency ranks for light armor and
unarmored defense increase to expert.
WEAPON MASTERY
13TH
You fully understand your weapons. Your proficiency
ranks for simple and martial weapons and unarmed
attacks increase to master.
GREATER WEAPON SPECIALIZATION
15TH
Your damage from weapon specialization increases to 4
with weapons and unarmed attacks in which you’re an
expert, 6 if you’re a master, and 8 if you’re legendary.
KEEN FLAIR
15TH
You inflict particularly devastating attacks on even
well-defended foes. When you Strike with a weapon or
unarmed attack with which you have master proficiency,
if you roll a 19 on the die and the roll is a success, you
critically succeed instead.
RESOLVE
17TH
You’ve steeled your mind with resolve. Your proficiency
rank for Will saves increases to master. When you roll a
success on a Will save, you get a critical success instead.
ETERNAL CONFIDENCE
19TH
As a swashbuckler at the peak of your skill, you swell
with confidence and bravado in every attack. Your
proficiency rank for your swashbuckler class DC
increases to master.
When you Strike as part of a finisher or Opportune
Riposte, you can give the Strike the failure effect from
the Confident Finisher action, including the increase from
Precise Finisher (page 91) if you have that feat. You can
do so only if the Strike uses a weapon or unarmed attack
that you could use for Confident Finisher.
LIGHT ARMOR MASTERY
19TH
Your skill with light armor improves, increasing your
ability to dodge blows. Your proficiency ranks for light
armor and unarmored defense increase to master.
Swashbuckler Feats
At each level that you gain a swashbuckler feat, you can
select one of the following feats. You must satisfy any
prerequisites before selecting the feat.
Classes
2
87
87
Introduction
Ancestries &
Backgrounds
Classes
Archetypes
Feats
Spells
items
glossary
& index
