i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> S
20 2024
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Sep 20, 2024
24868538
4425090
80
D16. HAUNTED STAIRS
A staircase leads upward from this narrow landing. The
south wall, facing the stairs, ﬂickers and glows with
ribbons of eerie green luminescence.
These stairs lead up to area C33.
During his ﬂight through the Abomination Vaults,
Otari Ilvashti made one of his ﬁnal stops on this
staircase. He waited here for only an hour to patch
some wounds and regain his courage, then moved on
through the door to area D14, hoping to ﬁnd an escape
route. Unfortunately, he never made it to the sea cave
exit, for the enormous otyugh that dwelt in the cavern
in those days attacked him at once. Otari was forced
to ﬂee south and made it to area D18. The otyugh was
too large to reach him there but too stubborn to leave,
and it’s there that Otari ﬁnally perished from a disease
the otyugh inﬂicted upon him.
As in areas B28 and C3, Otari’s spiritual energy
remains here. When the heroes reach this point, another
message manifests in the glowing light on the wall:
“Gauntlight is a weapon, built to raze Absalom—it
must be brought down!” After the message is read, the
words slide down into a writhing ribbon of footprints
that leads into area D14, then makes a panicked, twisting
route down through area D17 and into area D18.
This spectral manifestation can appear once per day.
D17. DISPOSAL POND
A rusty metal chute protrudes from the ceiling to the west
here, coming to an end over a pool of slimy water. A huge
mound of fungus lies under the tube against the west wall,
resting in a strangely monstrous shape.
This chute leads up to area D7, but it’s slick and
requires a successful DC 18 Athletics check to Climb.
Characters who are dumped into the pool of water
here ﬁnd it cold and unpleasant, but it’s only 3
feet deep. Fortunately, the immense otyugh once kept
here for trash disposal purposes died long ago. Its
strangely preserved body lies encased in fungus under
the pipe. Anyone who examines the remains of the
Huge otyugh can identify it with a successful DC 23
Occultism check to Recall Knowledge.
D18. OTARI’S DOOM
SEVERE 4
The water in this area is dark but only 3 feet deep.
A low rocky isle rises less than a foot above the surrounding
water here, its surface covered with a ﬁne layer of pale
green mushrooms and mold. A human skeleton dressed in
rotten leather armor and clutching a rapier lies in a heap at
the center of the isle.
The skeleton on the island was once Otari Ilvashti.
He survived the battle with Belcorra and a desperate
ﬂight through the upper levels of the Abomination
Vaults only to become trapped here by the immense
otyugh waiting in area D17. Already weakened from
his ordeal before contracting ﬁlth fever from the ﬁght
with the otyugh, Otari lingered on the tiny islet only
two days before he perished.
Today, his spirit lingers on, both in the form of
the strange warnings on the walls throughout the
Abomination Vaults and also as a ghost consumed by
two linked desires—vengeance on Belcorra and fear that
Gauntlight might yet be used to harm his hometown of
Absalom. As the heroes draw near, Otari’s ghost rises up
from his skeleton, appearing much as he did during the
late stages of ﬁlth fever, albeit with a transparent green
shade. Otari can’t leave this area, and since the heroes
are the ﬁrst potentially helpful adventurers to visit his
haunted remains, he’s eager to provide help.
Creatures: Before Otari can speak to the heroes, a
will-o’-wisp and two ﬂickerwisps that have tormented
him for years dart forth to protect their fear-laden
victim. Otari can do little more than warn the heroes
about the “Eyes of the Empty Death” before they
swoop forth to attack.
Once combat begins, Otari provides what aid he
can. The aberrations long ago learned to stay out of
the ghost’s reach, but Otari makes Infested Shadow
Strikes against them by momentarily possessing the
heroes’ shadows. After the wisps are defeated, Otari
provides much more information, as described below.
WILL-O’-WISP
CREATURE 6
Pathﬁnder Bestiary 333
Initiative Stealth +16
FLICKERWISPS (2)
CREATURE 2
Page 250
Initiative Perception +9
Treasure: Otari encourages the heroes to claim
and use his gear once he’s done speaking with them.
His inﬁltrator thieves’ tools are one of the four icons
required to overcome the barrier in area D12. His
other gear consists of a dagger of venom, a sneaky key,
and +1 studded leather armor.
What Otari Knows
Otari’s role is to present the tasks necessary to reach
the lower levels of the Abomination Vaults. Once the
i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> S
20 2024
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Sep 20, 2024
24868538
4425090
