i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> S
20 2024
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Sep 20, 2024
24868612
4425164
154
URTHAGUL
CREATURE 10
Male gug (Pathﬁnder Bestiary 198)
Initiative Perception +19
Items Crimson Fulcrum Lens (invested, page 220)
XP Award: Award the heroes 30 XP for recovering
the Crimson Fulcrum Lens.
H13. ISOLATED CAGE
This large metal cage stands atop a natural pillar rising
thirty feet above the water. The bars have been ripped and
bent, and bones lie scattered about the cage’s bottom.
The Children of Belcorra once imprisoned creatures
in this cage. After Urthagul attacked and ate the
creatures within, twice, the deep gnomes realized the
cage wasn’t worth the bother and abandoned it.
H14. RICKETY DOCK
LOW 8
A lone dock, rotten and rickety, juts out from a shelf of
rock. It looks long unused, and no vessel is tethered to
its moorings.
This dock went unused for many years as the Children
of Belcorra withdrew from their duties. It’s still usable,
with only the occasional mishap of a collapsing board.
The Cult of Urthagul used to dive for chuul eggs from
it, but they haven’t done so since being wracked by the
trauma of being cut off from Urthagul.
Creatures: A pair of chuuls hunt in this area,
sometimes working together, other times competing for
food. They prefer to sneak up on their prey, clambering
onto the dock close to the shore so their prey has
nowhere to run except into the water. A chuul reduced
to fewer than 20 Hit Points ﬂees and doesn’t return.
CHUULS (2)
CREATURE 7
Pathﬁnder Bestiary 64
Initiative Perception +15
Treasure: While the chuuls carry nothing of value,
heroes who Search under the water ﬁnd their hidden
nesting nook some 15 feet below the surface. It
holds a cache of 6 chuul eggs, 9 gp, 42 sp, and a +1
striking longsword.
H15. FETID LAKE
These waters are brackish and silty. Dark clouds of fetid air
and grimy mists cling to the surface. Where it laps on the
shore, the water leaves trails of glistening muck.
The lake’s water was once potable, fresh, and
teaming with subterranean ﬁsh stocked by the
Children of Belcorra. After Belcorra’s fall, the gnomes
allowed and even fostered strange aberrations and
other aquatic monsters in the lake. Despite the lake’s
calm, the visibility at the water level is poor; the mist
imposes a –2 circumstance penalty to Perception
checks, everything beyond 30 feet is concealed, and
visibility ends at about 90 feet. Visibility from a higher
point (such as the cliff in area H11, the pillar in area
H13, or the caves in area H22) is unobstructed and
gives a better view of the lake cavern.
Drinking the water can be hazardous but not fatal.
There’s a 1 in 6 chance that anyone drinking the water is
exposed to sewer haze (Pathﬁnder Gamemastery Guide
119). Fish still live in the lake: blind, ugly, spinous things
that are poisonous to most creatures. Eating these ﬁsh—
even when well cooked—is a slimy and sickening affair
and also spreads sewer haze. The other foul creatures
living in the lake have built a tolerance to its diseased
water and ﬁsh.
Random Encounters: Every 15 minutes that the
heroes spend traversing the lake, make a secret DC 5
ﬂat check. On a success, the heroes come across one of
the following encounters, determined randomly or at
your choice. If the result is a creature the heroes have
already faced, treat it as no encounter.
d10
Encounter
1–4
One chuul, from area H14
5–6
Four Children of Belcorra on a skiﬀ, from area H17
7
One krooth (Pathﬁnder Bestiary 215)
8
Two brood leech swarms (Bestiary 2 156)
9
One lost deepwater dhuthorex, from area I39
10
The froghemoth from area H27, which only
ﬁghts for 1 round before retreating
H16. MONSTER CAGES
VARIABLE 8
Seven cages constructed of metal and strange ﬁbrous
wood line this beach, each partially submerged in the
stinking waters.
The Children of Belcorra use the cages to trap
powerful monsters living in the lake, as Belcorra
recently commanded them to do. It is hard going and
involves many setbacks, but the Children are used to
taking their time to complete their goals. Each cage has
a simple latching device—a curved bar leading through
metal hoops—that takes three Interact actions to open
or close. The latch can’t be reached by a creature inside
the cage due to its position. The metal gives the cages
strength, and the ﬁbrous wood allows enough give that
they’re particularly difﬁcult to burst open. Forcing Open
i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> S
20 2024
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Sep 20, 2024
24868612
4425164
