i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> S
20 2024
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Sep 20, 2024
24868520
4425072
62
BLUEBLISTERS
DISEASE 3
DISEASE
VIRULENT
This ﬂesh-eating disease causes prominent and painful blue
blisters on the skin and gums. You can’t reduce your sickened
condition while aﬄicted with blueblisters.
Saving Throw DC 17 Fortitude; Onset 1 day; Stage 1 sickened
1 (1 day); Stage 2 sickened 1 and drained 1 (1 day); Stage 3
sickened 2 and drained 1 (1 week); Stage 4 sickened 2 and
drained 2 (1 week)
C22. ELEVATOR UP
The doors to this room open onto solid stone if the
magical elevator beyond is still up at area B34.
This plain, circular room is empty. An image of a moss‑caked
skull adorns the eastern wall.
The ﬂoor of this room is a magical elevator that links
to area B34 above. If a creature touches Nhimbaloth’s
symbol, the ﬂoor gradually ascends 30 feet. (If the
heroes aren’t aware of the secret door in area B34, they
might not realize this dead end leads anywhere.) It
isn’t possible to crush anything in the elevator shaft; if
anything gets in the way of the elevator’s ascent, such
as an item stuck in the doorway to the north or south,
the elevator simply descends again.
C23. GHOUL GARDEN
LOW 3
A large mound of dark-gray soil lies heaped in the southern
half of this room.
The ghouls have converted this ofﬁce into a garden
by hauling in mounds of swampy soil from the surface.
Creatures: The ghouls have cultivated a pair of
violet fungi here, both as a method to “ﬂash season”
ﬂesh and to serve as guardians. The fungi aren’t yet
fully grown but are still dangerous to non-ghouls (the
fungi have been trained to a rudimentary degree, and
they don’t lash out at their undead gardeners).
WEAK VIOLET FUNGI (2)
CREATURE 2
Pathﬁnder Bestiary 2 6, 286
Initiative Perception +6
C24. CANKER SHRINE
MODERATE 3
Whatever this room’s original use, today it serves as a
horriﬁc shrine. A rotting heap of ﬂeshy material that seems
to be composed of equal parts eyes, mouths, and skin lies
in a stinking mound in the middle of the room, surrounded
by two dozen tiny humanoid eﬃgies crafted out of small
bones and tangles of knotted hair.
The mound of ﬂesh is a slowly decaying gibbering
mouther—a creature the ghouls revere as “pure ﬂesh.”
The efﬁgies arranged around it are representations
of each ghoul in the cult. The smell in this room is
particularly foul. A living creature must succeed at
a DC 18 Fortitude save when it starts its turn in the
room or become sickened 1. On a success, the creature
is temporarily immune to the smell here for 24 hours.
Creatures: Two cultists of the Canker are worshiping
here, and they become irate if their venerations are
interrupted. A hero identiﬁes the cultists’ reverence
for the dead gibbering mouther on any successful DC
20 Religion check to identify them, in addition to any
other information gained. Any attack against the dead
gibbering mouther—intentional or otherwise—shocks
the cultists, causing them to become slowed 1 for 1
round, but it also causes them to focus all their attacks
on the blasphemer. They ﬁght until destroyed.
CANKER CULTISTS (2)
CREATURE 3
Page 59
Initiative Perception +11
C25. WASHROOM
This bathroom’s commode and tub are caked with dust.
It’s perhaps a blessing that the ghouls have no use
for this room. In fact, they rarely ever look in here, so
stealthy heroes might use it to hide out in the middle
of the ghouls’ territory.
C26. BELCORRA’S OFFICE
This oﬃce is brightly lit by several glowing lights in a
chandelier hanging above a desk and chair. Mirrors hang
on the north and south wall, although both of them are
badly cracked.
The light in this chamber isn’t particularly harmful
to ghouls, but the cult of the Canker doesn’t ﬁnd the
lighting pleasant—further, they view this area and the
rooms beyond as the private domain of their patron,
Belcorra, and out of respect for her on the day of her
return, they’ve left this room and those beyond it
untouched. If they discover the heroes have entered the
area, though, the surviving ghouls pursue them in here
with a righteous fury—as long as any heroes are in
here, Cult of the Canker ghouls gain a +1 circumstance
bonus to attack rolls against them.
The western door is locked, and the lock plate is
engraved with a stylized open book. This decoration
matches the image on one of the keys in area A13.
i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> S
20 2024
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Sep 20, 2024
24868520
4425072
