i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> S
20 2024
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Sep 20, 2024
24868525
4425077
67
Campaign
Overview
Otari
Chapter 1:
A Light
in the Fog
Chapter 2:
The Forgotten
Dungeon
Chapter 3:
Cult of the
Canker
Chapter 4:
Long Dream
the Dead
Chapter 5:
Into the Training
Grounds
Chapter 6:
Experiments
in Flesh
Chapter 7:
Soul Keepers
Chapter 8:
Decaying
Gardens
Chapter 9:
On the Hunt
Chapter 10:
To Draw the
Baleful Glare
Nhimbaloth
Adventure
Toolbox
Abomination
Vaults
The largest book on the northern shelf is a large
journal that focuses largely on Belcorra’s hatred of
Absalom. It’s written in Aklo, and a hero who spends 8
hours reading it learns of her family history from their
exile to poverty and her eventual return to the region
to build a lair from which she hoped to exact revenge
on the city that disgraced and impoverished her family.
The last several pages of the journal document much
of her work in building the Abomination Vaults.
While the journal doesn’t offer many speciﬁc details,
it mentions construction of ﬂeshwarping laboratories,
arenas where she pitted enemies against monstrous
champions for her amusement, prisons, torture
chambers, links to the Darklands, and a great temple
where “once the Empty Death herself brushed against
this fragile world.” Belcorra’s entries often speak
of her minions in the abstract, as if bragging about
how many have come to serve her in creating the
complex, but she only ever mentions one by name: her
“amusingly vain” apprentice, Volluk Azrinae. One of
the last entries describes how this apprentice arrived
from “a community of upstart and meddlesome drow
below” to serve Belcorra. The notes don’t provide any
further information about this drow community.
The stack of loose papers and scrolls contain a
wealth of information about Gauntlight (page 215).
These papers are written in Aklo; sorting and then
reading them takes 8 hours, after which the reader can
learn about Gauntlight’s functions as if they’d fully
researched the artifact.
Treasure: A folio containing several esoteric
diagrams is sandwiched between several books on
teleportation on the north shelf. The folio details
Belcorra’s series of linked teleportation circles to
quickly move around the Abomination Vaults, and it
notes the importance of using the awaken portal ritual
(page 223) to activate them should time or mischance
deplete them of power. The awaken portal ritual is
included here.
The largest book in the room, on the southern shelf,
is a rare text called The Whispering Reeds (page 216).
This magical book describes 77 supposed encounters
with the Outer Goddess Nhimbaloth and how each
encounter left physical or mental scars. The book is
heavily annotated in Belcorra’s hand, particularly in
areas where themes of Nhimbaloth as an “eater of
ghosts” play into the parables and tales.
C36. SCRIPTORIUM
SEVERE 3
This room is lined with tables divided up into several narrow
carrels with old wooden chairs pushed in against  them.
Upon them, old stacks of paper and tattered books sit
amid dry inkwells and brittle writing quills. To the south, a
skeleton dressed in shiny-looking chain shirt lies slumped
on the ﬂoor, clutching something in its bony hands.
This room once served as a scriptorium where
Belcorra’s scribes worked to transcribe and copy
important books.
A hero who Searches the eastern wall and succeeds at
a DC 18 Perception check ﬁnds an empty carrel, which
folds up to access a secret door leading to area C37.
Creatures: The skeletal remains to the south were
once a drow woman named Chandriu Invisar, director
of the scriptorium. Chandriu harbored a poorly
hidden adoration for Belcorra’s apprentice, Volluk,
and in the days after Belcorra’s death, Chandriu tried
to convince him to ﬂee with her to start a new life
together somewhere far from the Abomination Vaults.
Volluk spurned Chandriu, insisting that “Belcorra
needs me now in death even more than in life; you
should consider the same!” Chandriu returned here in
despair, only to be murdered by her disgruntled scribes
eager to get out from under her bullying, and she
grasped for Volluk’s portrait as she died.
As with so many others who had the misfortune
to perish in the Abomination Vaults, Chandriu arose
as a ghost. She now spends her days ﬂoating among
the work spaces, as if looking over the shoulders of
scribes to appraise their work, not realizing that
any time has passed at all since the hour preceding
Belcorra’s death. When the heroes enter the room,
the ghost mistakes them for new scribes and chastises
them for their tardiness before ordering them to begin
transcribing the old books stacked here. Any attempt
to do anything other than comply with Chandriu’s
commands (including simply leaving the room)
arouses her anger and prompts her to attack.
If the heroes each sit at a carrel and begin to work—
or even pantomime working—Chandriu is satisﬁed
unless they stop. She entertains brief questions and
discussion from her “scribes,” though, and will answer
any questions the heroes have, within reason, and that
don’t make her realize that Belcorra is dead or that
she’s a ghost. Every 10 minutes, she drifts through the
secret door to area C37, and a hero who watches and
succeeds at a DC 12 Perception check notes that her
actions suggest a hidden door (even though she simply
passes through the wall). She returns from these short
trips to area C37 in 1d4 rounds. The heroes can safely
escape the room during this window; if they later
return, Chandriu doesn’t remember them at all.
If the heroes attack Chandriu, or force her to
confront the truth that she’s a ghost or that Belcorra is
dead, she cries out in despair, then attacks.
i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> S
20 2024
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Sep 20, 2024
24868525
4425077
