i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> S
20 2024
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Sep 20, 2024
24868552
4425104
94
Creature: Belcorra’s magic binds Cratonys to this
level, preventing the velstrac from leaving. After
centuries surrounded by mindless aberrations and the
twisted logic of the seugathis, she has gone feral and lost
all sense of purpose. She doesn’t speak or respond to
any who try to communicate with her, but lashes out in
a desire to inﬂict pain. She ﬁghts from the room’s west
end, using the rusty chains to strike her foes.
If any hero obviously bears the silver-handled +1
ghost touch whip that once belonged to Vaulgrist,
Cratonys recognizes it and appears taken aback by its
presence. She refuses to attack anyone carrying it, and
anyone holding out the whip can compel her to cease
her attacks for at least a few minutes with a single
Interact action; however, Cratonys doesn’t become
any less violent or more prone to speak.
CRATONYS
CREATURE 6
Female evangelist velstrac (Pathﬁnder Bestiary 2 282)
Initiative Perception +13
Rusty Chains When Cratonys damages a creature with her
chains, including persistent bleed damage from being
impaled by a chain, the creature must succeed at a DC
21 Fortitude saving throw or contract a severe form of
tetanus called velstrac tetanus.
VELSTRAC TETANUS
DISEASE 6
DISEASE
VIRULENT
Velstracs sometimes intentionally infect their chains with
dangerous diseases, such as this aggressive form of tetanus.
Tetanus can produce stiﬀness, muscle spasms strong enough
to break bones, and ultimately death.
Saving Throw DC 21 Fortitude; Onset 1d4 days; Stage 1
clumsy 1 (1 week); Stage 2 clumsy 2 and can’t speak (1
day); Stage 3 paralyzed (1 day); Stage 4 death
XP Award: If the heroes get Cratonys to stand down
by displaying Vaulgrist’s whip, award them 60 XP as
though they defeated her in combat (if they later ﬁght
her anyway, they don’t gain any XP for doing so).
E3. MONSTER HOLDING
MODERATE 5
Three cells line the south wall, their bars only a few
inches apart. Each cell contains a heap of rotted
ﬂesh and shattered bone.
The locks on these cell doors have all
seized shut due to age. Opening one requires a
hero to succeed at a DC 20 Athletics check to
Force it Open or a single DC 20 Thievery check
to disable the jammed mechanism.
The center cell holds the only item of interest:
a copper key that glitters within the ﬂeshy
muck. This spare key can open the locked supply room
(area E11). The creature in the cell consumed the key’s
last bearer decades ago but couldn’t digest copper.
Creatures: In each cell, the ﬂeshy detritus has
coalesced into a strange creature called a shanrigol,
a nearly mindless amalgamation of undeath and
twitching life. These three shanrigol heaps remain
motionless until one of them is disturbed, at which
point they all slither forward to attack. The shanrigols
don’t need to open the cell doors to get out, as they
can ooze between the bars with their Undulating Step.
Cratonys
i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> S
20 2024
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Sep 20, 2024
24868552
4425104
