i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> S
20 2024
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Sep 20, 2024
24868468
4425020
10
reticence toward those they suspect hail from Absalom.
Trade with Absalom is important, but the townsfolk
are proud and feel no need to accommodate visiting
“city folk.” People in Otari typically subsist on ﬁsh
along with vegetables from local farms (primarily
potatoes, carrots, and other root vegetables), but more
unusual fare isn’t hard to get from Absalom. Coffee is
a mainstay and a favorite drink of the hardworking
and early-rising residents.
Exploring Otari
Signiﬁcant locations in Otari are detailed on the
following pages and correspond to the numbers on
the map on page 8. Unlabeled buildings are wooden
homes whose inhabitants work for nearby businesses
or for one of the town’s three lumber concerns.
Many signiﬁcant locations end with a stat block
that summarizes the site’s name, general function, and
level (for the purpose of determining any necessary
values associated with it, such as the highest level task
available to Earn Income). This stat block also notes
the site’s address, wares and services for sale there
(such as spellcasting services), and information about
the most signiﬁcant NPC who lives or works at the
establishment. The NPC’s initial attitude condition to
the heroes is also listed, along with DCs most likely to
be useful when interacting with the NPC.
LOCATION SUPPORT
If a hero adjusts an NPC’s attitude condition to helpful
(which might require completion of a listed task but
usually requires successful Diplomacy checks to Make
an Impression), that NPC’s location supports the
party in certain exploration and downtime activities.
The speciﬁc beneﬁts are based on the location’s traits
and are listed below. This support generally lasts
throughout the campaign, although you might decide
certain actions lose a location’s support. The heroes
can be supported by multiple locations in town, so
long as they make enough friends!
Church: Faithful characters whose beliefs align
with those of the church’s NPC (at your discretion)
are permitted to use the location’s resources to retrain
more efﬁciently. Retraining that would normally
require a week takes only 5 days at this location,
retraining that would normally require a month takes
only 3 weeks, and retraining is generally free. Checks
to Identify Magic, Treat Wounds, or Treat Disease on
site gain a +1 circumstance bonus.
Discount: The location provides a 10% discount on
its wares.
Employer: The location offers tasks up to its level to
Earn Income with a speciﬁed skill.
Garrison: Martially inclined characters can retrain
more efﬁciently here (as Church). Checks to Gather
Information or Treat Wounds on site gain a +1
circumstance bonus.
Housing: The location offers accommodations at a
comfortable cost of living for no charge.
Library: Scholarly characters, as well as arcane and
occult spellcasters, can retrain more efﬁciently here (as
Church). Checks to Create Forgery, Decipher Writing,
or Learn a Spell on site gain a +1 circumstance bonus.
Lodge: Primal spellcasters can retrain more
efﬁciently here (as Church). Checks to Identify Magic
or Subsist on site gain a +1 circumstance bonus.
Parlor: Socially inclined characters can retrain
more efﬁciently here (as Church). Checks to Gather
Information or Earn Income with Performance gain a
+1 circumstance bonus.
Workshop: Heroes can use the location’s resources
to Craft items associated with its purpose and gain a
+1 item bonus to associated Crafting checks.
OTARI
SETTLEMENT 4
N
TOWN
Diverse lumber town and trade port with a storied
past and its fair share of sinister secrets.
Government Mayor (elected leader)
Population 1,240 (60% humans, 8% halﬂings, 7%
half-elves, 6% elves, 5% dwarves, 5% gnomes,
3% half-orcs, 2% goblins, 4% other)
Languages Common, Dwarven, Elven, Halﬂing
Religions Cayden Cailean, Erastil, Gozreh, Sarenrae
Threats aberrant horrors, eerie hauntings,
kobolds, smugglers
Trinket Trade Otari has a long tradition of catering
to adventurers, and consumable items of up to
level 10 are available for sale in its shops.
Lardus Longsaddle (CN male human soldier 4)
foul-mouthed and short-tempered captain of
the town guard
Oseph Menhemes (N male human mayor 4)
current mayor and patriarch of one of three
local lumber companies
Vandy Banderdash (NG female halﬂing cleric of
Sarenrae 5) chatty priestess of Sarenrae and
unusually knowledgeable town historian
Wrin Sivinxi (CG female tieﬂing elf oddities
merchant 5) eccentric occult items dealer,
artisan, and collector of stories and rumors
i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> S
20 2024
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Sep 20, 2024
24868468
4425020
