i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> S
20 2024
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Sep 20, 2024
24868482
4425034
24
MITFLITS (3)
CREATURE –1
Pathﬁnder Bestiary 192
Initiative Stealth +5
Treasure: Searching the room reveals a peridot bead
(one of the mitﬂits thought it was candy) worth 2 gp,
along with a chipped mitﬂit tooth in one of the little
dung piles.
A2. DECREPIT DRAWBRIDGE
A wooden drawbridge, its timbers gray with age and decay,
spans the twenty-foot gap between the outbuilding and
sprawling ruin on the island. Rusty iron chains hang from
the ruin’s northern wall to the drawbridge’s southern side.
The chains look ready to fall apart, giving the drawbridge’s
structural integrity an extra layer of dubiousness.
True to appearances, the drawbridge isn’t safe to
cross, especially now that the mitﬂits have further
weakened the structure with some clever undercutting
to its supports. The heroes can spot the sabotage with
a successful DC 5 Perception check. A Small or smaller
creature can cross the bridge safely, but Medium
creatures must cross one at a time or the bridge
collapses with a groaning crash, which dumps everyone
on the bridge into the 4-foot-deep water. A creature
near the ends of the drawbridge when it collapses can
Grab an Edge (DC 10 Reﬂex save) to avoid falling in.
Once the bridge has collapsed, a character can attempt
a DC 10 Athletics check to Climb up to area A1 or A4
on either side. Of course, once the bridge collapses, the
slurk in area A3 quickly comes to investigate.
A3. SLURK POND
LOW 1
Tangles of reeds grow in thick clusters around the edge
of this muddy pond. The water appears murky with
algae, and the half-decayed body of a three-foot-tall scaly
humanoid lies on the pool’s northern bank, half-buried in
mud and leaves.
The water of this pond is only 4 feet deep, but an
extra few feet of mud below make it greater difﬁcult
terrain to wade through.
Vines and creepers festoon the ruins, but any hero
Investigating this area who succeeds at a DC 12 Nature
check to Recall Knowledge identiﬁes an unusually long
vine that seems out of place. This vine stretches from
the top of the watchtower (area A1) to the north end
of the walkway to the northeast (area A9). The mitﬂits
strung up this vine so they could avoid the ground if
they wanted to; it won’t support any creature larger
than Small in size.
Creatures: A single slurk, the former guardian and
only surviving remnant of the Stonescale kobolds who
recently dwelt in the ruins, still lives in this pond. The
mitﬂits enjoy playing “dodge the squirt”: they taunt the
slurk into spitting slime at them while they dash across
the vine. The slurk prefers to sleep in the center of the
pond with its snout above the water during the day,
then ﬂops out at night to hunt. Loud noises (such as a
collapsing drawbridge), the scent of sudden free food
(such as a tossed maggot steak), or anyone splashing
around on the pool’s edge will rouse the slurk from its
slumber. Once woken the monster eagerly attacks any
creatures nearby, but it doesn’t leave sight of its pond.
The creature ﬁghts to the death.
SLURK
CREATURE 2
Pathﬁnder Bestiary 301
Initiative Perception +6
Treasure: The corpse of a dead kobold lies on the
pond’s north bank. The slurk avoided eating the carcass
out of lingering loyalty to the recently slaughtered
tribe, and the slurk’s presence kept the mitﬂits from
looting it—but not from eyeing it covetously from
afar. The gear on the kobold’s body is mostly ruined
with the exception of 4 gp in one rotten belt pouch
and a spike snare bundled securely in a little backpack.
WANDERING MONSTERS
While this book doesn’t present wandering monster
tables for Abomination Vaults, the dungeon’s
denizens still occasionally leave their homes! You
can make the dungeon feel more dynamic by
familiarizing yourself with each level’s denizens and
then having them react to the party’s progression
and presence. For example, if the heroes noisily
explore an area, creatures in nearby rooms could
come to investigate or perhaps set up an ambush. If
the heroes decide to camp out in the dungeon rather
than return to the safety of town, nearby creatures
might visit or even attack their campsite while
they rest. If the heroes clear out the denizens of a
level and then return weeks later, they might ﬁnd
that new monsters have moved in. By keeping the
inhabitants of the Abomination Vaults active, you
can make the location feel all the more dangerous
and unpredictable to your players.
i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> S
20 2024
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Sep 20, 2024
24868482
4425034
