i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> S
20 2024
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Sep 20, 2024
24868544
4425096
86
their changes to be improvements. The people of
Otari have no idea that this trafﬁc exists, because it
comes from the Darklands far below into the
dungeon’s middle levels.
When Belcorra returned as a ghost only
a few years ago, the Abomination Vaults
hummed with the power of her return.
The signiﬁcance of this event was lost on
the research-focused Jafaki, but not on
Urevian; the devil realized he could now
ﬁnally fulﬁll his contract with the sorcerer.
Yet Urevian had already spent centuries
contemplating a well-drafted loophole that
would allow him to simply return to
Hell without providing her any
aid at all. To do so, Urevian
needs a speciﬁc mortal soul:
that of Vol Rajani, one
of the Roseguard. Vol is
long dead, of course, but
the clause can still apply if
Urevian receives the soul of
Vol’s last descendant, Carman Rajani. Urevian
couldn’t collect the soul while Belcorra was merely
dead, but now that she has returned, Urevian is willing
to abandon his extensive preparations if someone can
get Carman’s soul for him—and he selects the dungeon
delvers from Otari to handle this matter on his behalf.
The Spectral Seal
A spectral barrier blocks the only passage from the
fourth level of the Abomination Vaults to the ﬁfth.
As the heroes learned from the ghost of Otari Ilvashti
in area D18, only icons of all four members of the
Roseguard can pierce it.
RETRIEVING THE ICONS
It shouldn’t take the heroes too much asking around
in town to ﬁnd out about the Roseguard’s icons. The
Roseguard founded Otari and consisted of the rogue
Otari Ilvashti, the cleric Aesephna Menhemes, the
wizard Zarmavdian, and the ﬁghter Vol Rajani. The
best place to learn about the Roseguard is Menhemes
Manor, the residence of the town’s mayor and his family
(all descendants of Aesephna Menhemes). The manor’s
eastern wing contains a public museum of the town’s
history. Although this museum contains replicas of the
Roseguard’s adventuring gear and even a few common
items that the adventurers once owned, the speciﬁc icons
Otari Ilvashti’s ghost described to the heroes aren’t here.
Mayor Oseph Menhemes, Vandy Banderdash at the
Dawnﬂower Library, or Wrin Sivinxi at Wrin’s Wonders
can point the heroes in the right direction.
The icons are described on page 217. Aesephna
Menhemes’s hunter’s brooch is in a locked
shadowbox in the music room of Menhemes
Manor. If the heroes honestly and openly
tell Oseph Menhemes why they need it,
he permits them to borrow the brooch
for as long as they’d like. For being
honest with him, they automatically
earn the Menhemes’s support (as
described on page 10), which allows
the heroes to Earn Income by tutoring
the Menhemes children and, more
immediately pertinent, lets them meet
Dorianna Menhemes and aid with
her malady (page 91). If the heroes
previously earned the Menhemes’s
support, Oseph lets them keep the
brooch in exchange for all they’ve
done for him and the town.
The bookseller Morlibint keeps
Zarmavdian’s Thresholds of Truth
in his academic collection at Odd
Stories. If Odd Stories already
supports the heroes, Morlibint gladly allows them to
borrow the book. If not, they must promise Morlibint
that they’ll take special care of the spellbook before he
loans it to them. Convincing Morlibint might require
extensive promises, a demonstration on the proper care
of ancient tomes, or both. Either way, Morlibint wants
to get a full account of what they do with it (and any
related magical phenomena).
Vol Rajani’s longsword, the Cooperative Blade, is
normally on display at the entrance to Dawnﬂower
Library, but it was stolen the previous night.
CARMAN’S BACKGROUND
Carman grew up on stories of Vol’s bravery, dedication,
and skill. As a boy, Carman didn’t understand why his
family’s sword was hanging in the Dawnﬂower Library
and not in their house. It was theirs, or so his parents
insisted. As Carman grew older, he ﬁrst worked at
Otari’s blacksmith’s shop, Blades for Glades, and later
won the shop in a lucky wager against the prior owner.
Yet he couldn’t forget his family’s sword. Ofﬁcially, the
Menhemes family claimed ownership over Vol’s ancient
blade but “allowed” it to stay in the library in an act
of purported generosity that Carman found offensive.
The summer his parents were waylaid and slain by
bandits on the road from Absalom, Carman became
a broken man. His work at the smithy became erratic,
and he stopped relaxing with his friends and helping his
community. With no other direction, Carman squandered
his inheritance, spending the money on entertainment,
 Captain Longsaddle
i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> S
20 2024
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Sep 20, 2024
24868544
4425096
