i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> S
20 2024
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Sep 20, 2024
24868484
4425036
26
This massive frog was attacked by Freznelkesh, the
river drake who lairs in area B19. The drake decided
she had no interest in the frog’s foul toxic skin after
gnawing off its legs. The carcass lies in the rubble on
the western wall.
Creatures: While the river drake didn’t ﬁnd the
frog’s ﬂavor appetizing, the giant maggots deposited
in the carcass by the giant ﬂy in area A6 aren’t so
discerning. If any creature approaches within 10 feet
of the frog’s body, two giant maggots burst suddenly
from the carcass to attack. They pursue fresh food
relentlessly and ﬁght to the death.
MUDLICKER MAGGOTS (2)
CREATURE 0
Giant maggots (Pathﬁnder Bestiary 2 120)
Initiative Perception +3
Examining the Frog: A hero who Investigates the
frog carcass and succeeds at a DC 18 Arcana or Nature
check to Recall Knowledge can tell that a draconic
creature ate the frog’s legs. On a critical success, the
hero recognizes the caustic mucus around the bite as
belonging to a river drake.
A6. FLY PEN
MODERATE 1
The interior of this watch post still has a wooden ceiling
high above, but a thick mound of ﬁlth and animal carcasses
heaped on the ﬂoor make the room anything but inviting.
This room’s ceiling is 15 feet high and has a trapdoor
leading onto a small parapet that survived the manor’s
collapse. A hero who succeeds at a DC 18 Perception
check can spot the trapdoor, which can’t easily be seen.
With the ladder gone, a character must succeed at a
DC 15 Athletics check to Climb to the trapdoor.
Under Boss Skrawng’s orders, the mitﬂits captured
the cornerstone of their plan to rule Otari—a
magniﬁcent, green-and-blue ﬂy the size of a pony that
the gremlins call Buzzybuzz. They keep it here believing
that the ﬂy can’t escape this room; the mitﬂits don’t
know about the trapdoor, but their ﬂy prisoner found
it right away. Buzzybuzz can leave whenever it wants,
but the food in this area keeps it satisﬁed here.
In fact, this room is slightly too convenient, as
a second giant ﬂy with brown and blue coloration
sometimes comes in, too. The two giant ﬂies get
along with one another since they both have plenty
of food. However, the mitﬂits have never seen both in
the room at the same time, so Boss Skrawng and his
followers believe there’s only one giant ﬂy. (They don’t
understand why Buzzybuzz seems to change color
from time to time.)
Creatures: The heroes ﬁrst encounter the green-and-
blue giant ﬂy when they enter this room. It lunges at
the heroes, assuming they’re more food. One round
later, the brown-and-blue giant ﬂy darts into the room
through the trapdoor and joins in the attack. Any
mitﬂits who see both ﬂies at the same time become
visibly confused, but their surprise turns to horror
when they see the giant ﬂies ﬁght to the death.
GIANT FLIES (2) 
CREATURE 1
Pathﬁnder Bestiary 2 120
Initiative Perception +8
A7. DINING ROOM 
LOW 1
The collapsed ceiling at the middle of this room has left
a ragged hole in the wooden roof. Rotten tapestries, their
designs completely obscured by mold, hang in tatters
on the walls between arrow slits and ruined side tables.
The remains of a fancy dining table lie mostly pulverized
by the fallen ceiling.
Hazard: Not all the haunts plaguing Gauntlight are
direct echoes of Belcorra’s legacy. This room served as
the communal hall for the Stonescale kobolds before a
violent coup tore the group apart. The kobold spirits
linger here to this day.
This might be the ﬁrst haunt the heroes face in the
Abomination Vaults Adventure Path, so you should
do your best to describe the ghostly kobolds that rise
from the rubble not as monsters to be fought in a
traditional manner, but as a spectral phenomenon that
must be dealt with another way. You might try to lead
the heroes into trying the skills most likely to quell the
haunt: Intimidation to scare away the kobold ghosts
or Religion to put the spirits back to rest. This is a
good opportunity to get the players in the mindset that
haunts are often more like a puzzle to be solved than
a foe to be vanquished, and getting the heroes into the
mindset of understanding why a haunt is here in the
ﬁrst place. Understanding how a haunt came to be is
the best way to discover how to put it to rest.
STONESCALE SPIRITS
HAZARD 2
COMPLEX
HAUNT
Stealth +11 (trained)
Description A half-dozen ghostly kobolds rise from the
rubble in a howling vortex.
Disable DC 18 Intimidation (trained) to frighten the spirits
with a threatening display, or DC 21 Religion (trained) to
exorcise the spirits
Confusing Confrontation Ǻȓ (emotion, enchantment, fear,
mental) Trigger A creature enters a square either fully
i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> S
20 2024
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Sep 20, 2024
24868484
4425036
