i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> S
20 2024
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Sep 20, 2024
24868502
4425054
44
B13. GROTHLUT DEN
LOW 2
Water drips down the walls of this cavern, particularly
along a jumble of dangling pallid roots to the south.
Beneath them is a large, soggy nest of mud and bones.
Creatures: This cavern is the result of years of
erosion, and its damp, earthy environs make it a
perfect home for the morlocks’ recently acquired pet,
a grothlut ﬂeshwarp. Graulgust rescued the grothlut
from a cage deeper in the Abomination Vaults, and the
aberration dotes on the morlock the way a loyal dog
adores its master. It attacks anyone who enters this
cave other than Graulgust, ﬁghting to the death.
GROTHLUT
CREATURE 3
Pathﬁnder Bestiary 158
Initiative Perception +5
B14. SHRINE OF THE GHOST QUEEN
While it’s apparent that this large room was originally a
kitchen, the furnishings have been rebuilt and repositioned
to create an improvised shrine. The western end of the hall,
where a large ﬁreplace for cooking food once stood, now
serves as an altar of sorts. Looming over a human corpse
is a towering statue in a feminine shape made of bones,
covered in sheets of moldering cloth and hanging moss.
A bare spot on the room’s north wall has been decorated
with mud and blood to depict the same feminine form
as the statue.
The Ghost Queen morlocks erected this shrine
to honor Belcorra, but as the morlocks fear the
ghost as much as they revere her, they only rarely
enter to provide periodic sacriﬁces—the latest of
which was one of the thieves from Crook’s Nook.
The body is that of a human man with a bird tattoo on
his right shoulder that marks him as a member of the
Osprey Club (with a successful DC 16 Society check
to Recall Knowledge, a hero identiﬁes the mark as
signifying membership in the thieves’ guild).
A hero who succeeds at a DC 15 Religion check when
Investigating this shrine surmises that the “divinity”
worshipped here isn’t a well-known goddess, but that
the bloody scrawl on the wall over the secret door is
likely meant to illustrate someone of importance to the
cult. If the heroes have seen an image of Belcorra, such
as the painting in area A22, they recognize the statue
as a crude depiction of the same woman.
The secret door in the northern wall is easier to
ﬁnd than most of those in the area, and it takes
only a successful DC 18 Perception check for a hero
examining the crudely painted decoration to notice
it. The morlocks discovered this door shortly after
they arrived, but the one time they opened it to look
inside, they were scared off by the shadow within.
They believe this secret door leads to a place sacred
to the Ghost Queen. They decorated the wall where the
secret door is located to placate their patron and haven’t
opened it since.
Treasure: While the dead thief has no treasure on him,
the morlocks have left a few valuable offerings strewn
Graulgust
i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> S
20 2024
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Sep 20, 2024
24868502
4425054
