i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> S
20 2024
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Sep 20, 2024
24868548
4425100
90
catches the weapon and can immediately make a ranged
Strike with it.
Speed 25 feet
Melee Ȱɵ longsword +17 (magical, versatile P), Damage
2d8+8 slashing
Melee Ȱɵ light hammer +16 (agile), Damage 1d6+4
bludgeoning
Ranged Ȱɵ light hammer +17 (agile, thrown 20 feet),
Damage 1d6+4 bludgeoning
Sneak Attack Carman deals an extra 2d6 precision damage
to ﬂat-footed creatures.
Sudden Throw Ȱɵ (ﬂourish) Carman quickly draws a
thrown weapon and makes a ranged Strike with it. His
target must succeed at a DC 22 Perception check or be
caught ﬂat-footed by the attack.
Surprise Attacker On the ﬁrst round of combat, creatures
that haven’t acted yet are ﬂat-footed to Carman.
TALKING WITH CARMAN
If Carman has a chance to explain himself before the
heroes take him into custody, he tries to justify stealing
the sword. Read or paraphrase the following.
“It’s mine, I tell you! The sword is mine! How can I steal
something that already belongs to me? It belonged to Vol
Rajani, and I’m her only surviving descendant. That uptight
mayor says the sword belongs to his family just because a
pack of kobolds had their hands on it for a while, and his
ancestor snatched it from them. He says an heirloom is an
heirloom, and he’s right, but it’s my heirloom! Look, I tried to
buy it oﬀ him, but every time I saved enough coin, he raised
the price—ﬁfty gold, then one hundred, then two hundred.
Then he said it wasn’t for sale! I had no choice but to take
it. It belongs to Vol—to the Rajani family. It belongs to me!”
Carman pleads for the heroes to let him go and
steadfastly claims his right to take the sword. He
answers their questions as best he can. Likely inquiries
and his responses follow.
Why is the sword so important to you? “It belonged
to my family, to Vol. She was the best of the Roseguard
and the best of the Rajanis... and I wanted to be mayor.
I’ve tried four times but always lost to Oseph. If I had
the sword, well—people say that it gives the town good
luck! If I had it, they’d want me to be mayor so that I
could give them luck.”
Why do you want to be mayor? “To be in charge!
There’s no reason a Menhemes should always run this
place. Oseph says it’s because his family is descended
from heroes. Well, so am I, and I can do a much better
job than that old bastard.”
Why did you set the fire at the library? “The ﬁre was
just a distraction. I didn’t want to hurt anyone, and they
should’ve put it out soon enough. It’s not like I burned
anything other than some paper.”
Even if the sword is rightfully yours, you committed
arson. Don’t you think you deserve to go to jail? “Arson?
Heh. Vandalism maybe. I’ll pay a ﬁne for starting the
ﬁre, but the sword is mine.”
Why should we let you go? “Because I’ll pay you. Fifty
gold coins—a hundred, even. Take it all. But I get to
keep my sword.”
How did you get that much gold? “Saved it, borrowed
some. Okay, borrowed most of it. Look, I just had to
get that sword.”
If we let you go, what will you do? “I don’t know.
Stay here a while, maybe, and think it out. I guess I
can’t really go back to town now. Maybe I’ll head to
Nidal. They say Vol was from there—some say she was
royalty, and maybe I can get the life that’s due to me.”
If we let you go, can we borrow the sword first? “As
long as you’re not taking it or me back to town, I’ll go
with you to do whatever you need to do.”
CARMAN’S FATE
The heroes decide what to do with Carman. He likely
goes along with any of the heroes’ demands, particularly
if they already proved they can beat him in a ﬁght.
Let Him Go: Even if the heroes are willing to let him
go, they still need the Cooperative Blade to breach the
barrier in the Abomination Vaults. Carman goes with
them for this task since he doesn’t want to let the sword
out of his sight, but he doesn’t ﬁght in the Abomination
Vaults if the heroes get into trouble. After the barrier
goes down, Carman retreats to the cave to consider
what to do and likely stays there for a few days.
Turn Him In: If the heroes turn him over to the Otari
Garrison, Captain Longsaddle tosses him in a cell and
jokes about throwing away the key. Longsaddle lets the
mayor know that the heroes have the Cooperative Blade;
the mayor is ﬁne with the heroes borrowing it, as long as it
ends up back with the town. Longsaddle takes Carman’s
money as a pool to repay any costs from his crimes but
lets the heroes keep Carman’s other equipment.
Kill Him: If the heroes kill Carman in combat, people
in town understand that’s a risk when apprehending
a criminal. Oseph arranges for Carman’s burial in
the Otari Cemetery and lets the heroes borrow the
Cooperative Blade.
Treasure: Apart from what Carman carries on him,
his adventurer’s pack near the ﬁre contains a week of
improvised rations and two waterskins. A hero who
succeeds at a DC 20 Perception check while Searching
the cave ﬁnds a long-forgotten bottle of Old Law
Whiskey hidden in a pebble-covered niche. The aged
alcohol is worth 3 gp.
i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> S
20 2024
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Sep 20, 2024
24868548
4425100
