i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> S
20 2024
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Sep 20, 2024
24868667
4425219
209
Campaign
Overview
Otari
Chapter 1:
A Light
in the Fog
Chapter 2:
The Forgotten
Dungeon
Chapter 3:
Cult of the
Canker
Chapter 4:
Long Dream
the Dead
Chapter 5:
Into the Training
Grounds
Chapter 6:
Experiments
in Flesh
Chapter 7:
Soul Keepers
Chapter 8:
Decaying
Gardens
Chapter 9:
On the Hunt
Chapter 10:
To Draw the
Baleful Glare
Nhimbaloth
Adventure
Toolbox
Abomination
Vaults
Temples and Shrines
Often, the members of a cult of the Empty Death
consist of the truly desperate, those with little money
and less hope. They conduct their worship in their
homes, or what passes as a home—partially collapsed
shacks, abandoned barns, or even slumped survivalists’
shelters all sufﬁce for the worship of Nhimbaloth. The
rarer cults led by deviants of means construct larger
structures to honor Nhimbaloth and often build these
structures as mockeries of other churches by including
stained glass windows, mosaics, and other works of
art that honor the Outer Goddess. In such cases, the
structure often serves a secondary purpose, such as
a castle, a manor house, or the like. Curiously, these
larger structures often share a particular feature:
a tower that serves as a beacon or lighthouse as a
way to honor will-o’-wisps, which the cult adore. To
her followers, will-o’-wisps are Nhimbaloth’s eyes,
and her gaze looks out upon the world through the
lambent glow of these supernatural predators. A
beacon or lighthouse in a temple thus symbolizes a
will-o’-wisp, but also, they believe it gives Nhimbaloth
a lens through which to gaze upon the world.
Nhimbaloth’s symbol is a skull with moss stuffed
into its jaws, although her cultists often create variants
of it as crude dolls or efﬁgies of moss-caked bones and
fragments of skulls. Temples that can afford to be open
about their afﬁliation with the goddess often adorn
their structures with skulls that have moss carefully
grown into soggy, vermin-infested beards or with
moss draperies that hang down over archways to form
moist curtains in place of proper doors.
A Priest’s Role
As with most cults of the Elder Mythos, the majority
of Nhimbaloth’s devout don’t worship out of respect
or adoration so much as fear. For them, the concept
of death isn’t what evokes nightmare, but the fear of
what judgment might await in the afterlife is what
drives most to her faith. Those who have sinned, who
have committed heresy against a prior faith, or who
simply live in constant terror of what Pharasma might
say to them when they reach her throne instead seek
the oblivion offered by Nhimbaloth. They seek not to
escape death or life, but to escape what they fear will
be an even worse afterlife.
Yet this is not the only motive that draws worshippers
to her fold. Some, rather than being driven by a fear
of the afterlife, are enticed by the opportunity to bask
in the misery and despair of others. These members
are some of the most awful in the sect, for they use the
promise of oblivion that Nhimbaloth offers to those
who worship her as a lure to draw in the desperate
to aid their own nefarious plots. Some seek to use
these eager-for-oblivion zealots as disposable armies
for acts of vengeance or rage; others draw upon these
worshippers as sacriﬁces to fuel abhorrent rituals or to
craft horriﬁc magic items.
Even these predators of the desperate pale in
comparison to the worst of Nhimbaloth’s worshippers—
nihilists who fully understand the Empty Death and
see in her the ultimate tool to destroy a world they’ve
grown to loathe. For these cultists, nothing less than
using the Voidbracken to bring a Deadtide upon their
world will sufﬁce. They might have a hidden plan to
escape the world the moment all life is ended; they
might even seek their own oblivion or believe that
Nhimbaloth herself might reward them with dominion
over a dead world. Regardless of their intent, these
doomsday shepherds are the most dangerous of the
Empty Death’s worshippers.
Holidays
Cults of Nhimbaloth that exist in small communities
under the guise of a different religion take pains to
observe that faith’s holidays if visitors or (more
rarely) townsfolk don’t know their gathering’s true
faith, but apart from that, worshippers of the Empty
Death don’t observe regular holidays or religious
festivals—with one unusual exception. The exact date
on which Nhimbaloth’s body was taken from her
and Voidbracken was denuded of life is unknown, so
each cult chooses one day of import to observe this
anniversary. The fact that no one knows the length
of Voidbracken’s year makes this ritual even more
arbitrary; regardless, her faithful believe that on one
of these so-called Void Dawns, the sun won’t rise upon
the world and all life will be snuffed in a Deadtide.
Cultists celebrate the night leading to a Void Dawn
with a gluttonous feast consisting of all manner of
carnivores and monsters—meals they often make
during the proceedings while the “food” still lives.
When the sun inevitably rises, the cultists choose one
of their own as the ﬁnal feast in atonement for failing
to bring the Deadtide to their world.
Aphorisms
Worshippers of Nhimbaloth fondly quote and recite
their favorite tales from The Whispering Reeds, each
of which has a number of memorable and haunting
lines. However, a variant of an infamous quote from
the Necronomicon particularly resonates with all of
her worshippers.
Long Dream the Dead, Yet Even Death Can Die:
To many, the notion of death is akin to an eternal
slumber, a dawnless rest in which the soul experiences
i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> S
20 2024
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Sep 20, 2024
24868667
4425219
