i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> S
20 2024
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Sep 20, 2024
24868464
4425016
6
prison, the farm caverns, the hunting cavern, and the
temple level, which holds the Empty Vault. Each level
has its own character, and the levels are progressively
more dangerous the deeper the heroes venture.
BELCORRA’S RISE
Belcorra’s spirit didn’t rest peacefully. Consumed by
rage and empowered by Nhimbaloth, she arose as
a powerful ghost 500 years after her family’s exile
from Absalom, the event that so dramatically altered
her life. Belcorra now lurks in the deepest levels
of the Abomination Vaults, plotting her revenge
against Absalom and the heroes who vanquished her.
The Roseguard are long dead, but the town they
founded remains, and the icons representing their
adventuring careers (page 217) now have the power to
penetrate Belcorra’s protections.
At ﬁrst, no one in Otari realizes the danger Belcorra
poses. Her machinations and her monsters are well out
of sight. But before she moves against Absalom, she
intends to use her Gauntlight against Otari—the town
built by the adventurers who killed her ﬁve centuries
before. Only Otari’s newest heroes can prevent
Belcorra’s vengeance and put her spirit to rest.
Date

Event
Age of Darkness	 Serpentfolk construct the Empty Vault, a shrine to Nhimbaloth far beneath the surface of Golarion.
When Aroden raises the Starstone Isles from the Inner Sea, the Empty Vault ascends with it, ending
up several hundred feet below the Isle of Kortos.
Unknown
The neutral drow of a subterranean city construct an outpost closer to the surface called Yldaris.
These drow are unconsciously drawn to the Empty Vault but don’t know of its presence.
4213 ar
Belcorra Haruvex is born to the wealthy Haruvex family in Absalom. Unknown to anyone outside
the family, the Haruvexes have a strong aberrant bloodline and a familial devotion to the Outer
God Nhimbaloth.
4219 ar
The Haruvex family is ejected from Absalom when their secret sacriﬁces are discovered. They ﬂee
to Andoran, where they live in poverty. This is particularly hard on 6-year-old Belcorra, the family’s
youngest scion. The Haruvexes instill in Belcorra a hatred of Absalom and impress upon the child
her role as Nhimbaloth’s chosen one.
4230 ar
Belcorra, the last exiled Haruvex, has become a powerful sorcerer. She secretly relocates to the Isle
of Kortos, where she begins work on a magical lighthouse called Gauntlight, situated directly above
the Empty Vault. She magically opens passages through the earth to reach the shrine and begins to
collect an army of aberrations to attack Absalom.
4234 ar
Belcorra completes Gauntlight and begins work on its dungeons, the Abomination Vaults. She uses
will-o’-wisps and bound devils to enforce her will on the rapidly expanding hordes within. She meets
the drow and urdefhans who dwell in the area and demands their fealty in exchange for their lives.
4244 ar
One of Absalom’s “hunting lodges” (a sanctioned group of adventurers) called the Roseguard hear
of Belcorra’s presence and come to investigate her lighthouse. They kill her but never learn of the
existence of the expansive Abomination Vaults beneath Gauntlight; Belcorra kills the rogue Otari
Ilvashti in this battle. The victorious Roseguard construct a small port community and retire there,
naming it Otari after their fallen friend.
4290 ar
The last Roseguard passes away, and Otari begins to fall into decline.
4294 ar
Otari is abandoned.
4300 ar
Stonescale kobolds colonize Otari.
4310 ar
Yarlaip seals his tribe’s fate by luring ships to their doom; the Stonescale kobolds are soon thereafter
defeated by adventurers. Maklanni Menhemes leads the resettlement of Otari.
4323 ar
Construction of the Otari Mill and log ﬂume is completed.
4719 ar
Belcorra awakens as a ghost and begins work to reactivate Gauntlight. Its dungeons have been
populated with generations of inﬁghting creatures since her death, and she seeks to bring them
under her control once more.
4721 ar
The current year. Gauntlight becomes infested with a band of mitﬂits, who are displaced by
morlocks pushing upwards at the urging of their “ghost queen.” Gauntlight is ready for a test to
demonstrate its power.
Campaign Timeline
The following is a rough history of signiﬁcant events relevant to this Adventure Path.
i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> S
20 2024
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Sep 20, 2024
24868464
4425016
