i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> S
20 2024
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Sep 20, 2024
24868514
4425066
56
Failure The creature becomes frightened 2 and treats no
one as an ally as long as they remain frightened.
Critical Failure The creature becomes frightened 3 and
is confused as long as they remain frightened.
Routine (1 action) The eye glances about, and those it
can see (whether in area C4 or outside of it) take 4d6
mental damage (DC 21 basic Will save) as fears of being
watched impart ripples of pain. A creature that takes
mental damage from this eﬀect doesn’t reduce their
frightened value at the end of their next turn.
Reset The haunt becomes inert at the end of any round
in which there are no frightened creatures it can see.
It stays dormant for 1 hour, after which point it resets.
C5. SPYING HALL
This plain, angled hall has four alcoves. Each western alcove
has a silvery circle of runes inlaid on the ﬂoor. A peephole
in the eastern wall allows observation of the room beyond.
In addition to once giving Belcorra a place to spy
upon visitors in area C4, the western alcoves formed
a limited teleportation hub independent of the portal
chambers. Neither alcove is currently active.
The northwestern alcove (area C5a) once teleported
anyone entering it to the hidden alcove in area A4,
and vice-versa. Since that room was scoured clean
of its silver and defaced long ago by a determined
treasure-hunter, it can’t be restored. The southwestern
alcove (area C5b) once teleported anyone entering
it to the silver-lined cage in area D11. This was a
one‑way teleportation used to capture prisoners. This
teleportation circle can be reactivated by the awaken
portal ritual found in area C35, so long as that ritual is
performed at both ends (that is, here and in area D11).
Both secret doors are obvious from this side.
C6. GUARD ROOM
LOW 3
Thick clouds of white mist ﬁll this room entirely, making it
diﬃcult to discern any details.
The creature dwelling here generates this mist. The
secret door in the west wall can be discovered with a
successful DC 18 Perception check.
Creatures: Belcorra originally bound a trio of eerie,
octopean water elementals called mist stalkers into
this room to serve as guardians. Otari killed two of
them years ago, but one remains. The monster can see
through the mist it generates with ease, and as soon
as it identiﬁes intruders, it solidiﬁes the mist and then
moves to attack, ﬁghting until destroyed. It pursues
foes that ﬂee, but it doesn’t leave sight of this room.
MIST STALKER
CREATURE 4
Pathﬁnder Bestiary 2 114
Initiative Perception +13
Treasure: The secret alcove to the west once served
as an emergency cache of supplies for the guards on
this ﬂoor. Most of the supplies were raided during the
chaos following Belcorra’s death, but a few items of
use remain, including two lesser bravo’s brews, two
lesser healing potions, a moderate skeptic’s elixir (page
214), and a barkskin potion.
C7. STAIRS UP
These stairs ascend to area B5.
C8. KORLOK’S POST
MODERATE 3
The walls of this empty room are decorated with hundreds
upon hundreds of tiny little hash marks, as if someone had
been counting days for ages. To the northwest, an iron door
with a barred window sits in the wall, a large but open
padlock hanging from the door’s latch.
Creatures: The second of the two devils Belcorra
stationed on the upper levels of the Abomination
Vaults stands guard here. The barbazu Korlok takes
his post literally, and without any new orders from
Belcorra over the past several centuries, he’s remained
here patiently under her ﬁnal command to “wait here
and let no one out until I come for you.”
She never did.
This isn’t the longest posting that Korlok has served,
but it’s already starting to grate on his patience. If the
heroes enter the room, he stands at attention and in a
slightly bored voice informs them that, as intruders,
they are under arrest and should hand over their gear
before stepping into the adjoining prison. He ﬁghts to
the death if attacked or if any hero attempts to leave
(this gives him an excuse to leave the room).
KORLOK
CREATURE 5
Male barbazu (Pathﬁnder Bestiary 88)
Initiative Perception +13
Side Quest: The devil is patient and willing to speak
to the heroes for a few minutes if they wish. His initial
attitude to the heroes is indifferent, but if they can
improve this attitude (most likely with a successful DC
21 Diplomacy check to Make an Impression, but you
might decide that other checks—such as a Deception
check to Impersonate or to Lie—also appease Korlok),
Korlok admits his frustration. He knows Belcorra is
dead, but without access to his contract, he can’t study
i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> S
20 2024
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Sep 20, 2024
24868514
4425066
