i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> S
20 2024
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Sep 20, 2024
24868498
4425050
40
Secret Door: The southwestern alcove contains a
secret door leading down to area C10 and, from there,
back up to area B32. A hero who succeeds at a DC 20
Perception check while Searching this alcove identiﬁes a
toolbox bolted to the wall. When the tools within it are
pulled, the attached secret door opens.
Incomplete Doll: The northwest alcove contains a
soulbound doll resembling an armless, legless goblin.
It has an indentation in its back the same size as Mister
Beak’s soul focus gem (area A23). Inserting this gem
activates the soulbound doll, allowing it to speak but
not attack, move, or cast spells until its construction
is complete. A hero can complete it with enough work
and expense, but Borbo remains erratic and violent.
If Borbo is “returned” to this body, he wakens quickly
and begins to sob, lamenting in Goblin that his master
betrayed him. He remains inconsolable until a hero can
either calm him with a successful DC 16
Diplomacy check to Make an Impression
or scare him with a DC 16 Intimidate check
to Coerce him, or until someone places
him in a position where he can see
his former body in the north alcove.
In any of these cases, Borbo ﬁnally
goes silent and the heroes can speak to
him in Common, Elven, or Goblin. Borbo
has little useful to say and is prone
to ﬁts of self-pity and vitriol toward
Volluk, but if the heroes ask the right
questions, they can get four key
pieces of information from him.
•	 The location of the secret
door in this room.
•	 That there’s a secret treasure stash
behind a loose brick in his old room (area B4).
•	 Master Volluk was a “powerful mastermind
drow occultist artist craftsman” who had a
relationship with a “book lady down below” and
who worked for “Mistress Belcorra, who is very
frightening and absolutely none of my business.”
•	 Master Volluk is vain as well as cruel. If the
heroes present a nice image of Volluk (such as a
painting) to him and then threaten to destroy it,
Volluk will lose his composure and likely make a
tactical error the heroes can use. Unfortunately,
the only painting of Volluk Borbo knows about
is the one in area A22, and it’s destroyed. In
fact, only one image of Volluk remains in the
Abomination Vaults; it’s in area C36.
Once the heroes have learned all of his information,
Borbo pitifully asks to be released. If the heroes smash
the soul focus gem, Borbo’s soul is freed. For this act of
compassion, Pharasma grants the hero who destroyed
the gem a favor in the form of a momentary, prophetic
glimpse of their fate. This allows that hero to gain a +2
status bonus to a single check, which they can apply
even after they determine the check’s result. The hero
has 1 month to use this boon.
B3. VOLLUK’S CHAMBERS
This room shares features of both a bedroom and a study,
although the decor is devoid of any personal items or items
of sentimental value.
Volluk once dwelt here but relocated
downstairs to area D8 after becoming
a worm that walks. A search of the
room turns up a scrap of paper
listing the book titles What The
Worm Knows, Grave Feasts, and
Secrets of the Skull, along with a
note at the bottom indicating that
“Transcription will take months,
but I’ll try to have these
books back to you as soon
as possible, my love!”
B4. BORBO’S ROOM
This small room has a long-abandoned
straw bed, a dresser with open drawers
revealing a jumble of out-of-date servant’s
clothing, and a large barrel with a ladle atop it.
This room once belonged to Volluk’s
goblin servant Borbo, but it has been
abandoned since the goblin gave up his life to become
Mister Beak. The clothing matches that worn by
Borbo’s corpse in area B2. The barrel once held dozens
of pickles, but the brine inside evaporated long ago
and the pickles have rotted away.
Treasure: A hero Searching this room who succeeds
at a DC 18 Perception check ﬁnds a loose brick
concealing Borbo’s small treasure stash: a jade shard
worth 15 gp, a silver statuette of two succubi worth 35
gp, and an oily-looking slick armor rune. The heroes
might hear about this stash from Borbo in area B2.
B5. VOLLUK’S MACHINE
MODERATE 2
A large metal table ﬁtted with leather straps and iron
bands sits in the center of this room. A strange contraption
that seems to be part spyglass and part mechanical drill
sits near the head of the table. A sparkling black gemstone
glitters in a metal framework built into this machine’s side.
Incomplete Doll
i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> S
20 2024
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Sep 20, 2024
24868498
4425050
