i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> S
20 2024
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Sep 20, 2024
24868604
4425156
146
with monsters and subterranean explorers, such as
calignis, drow, and urdefhans.
Even Belcorra’s return as the Ghost Queen couldn’t
quite energize all of the Children of Belcorra to action,
but many realized how much they’d failed their
charge. Belcorra gave the Children a new mandate:
to round up the various dangerous creatures of the
farm level to serve her in her assault on the surface.
She placed the Children under the command of a new
supervisor, a dark naga named Vethris, but chose
poorly; the naga is corrupt, lazy, and more interested
in her creature comforts than guiding the deep gnome
undead in their tasks.
The Children of Belcorra aren’t happy with the
naga’s indolence but are reluctant to contradict their
Ghost Queen. The pace of the Children’s work is, at
best, plodding and has done little to reduce the chaos
in the garden.
Wisps
Although Belcorra trusts the Children—and their new
overseer, Vethris—to put things in order on the Farm
level, she still keeps tabs on the area. A few will-o’-
wisps and dread wisps (page 252) can communicate
with the Empty Vault. They hover over basins ﬁlled
with brackish swamp water and reeds that thrive
despite the darkness, as they draw nourishment from
their connection to the swamp fed by the Empty Vault.
The wisps quickly inform Belcorra of any unexpected
intruders, such as the heroes, leading her to make
an appearance, as described in the Event: Belcorra
Attacks! sidebar, above.
The Cult of Urthagul
A group of caligni refugees came to the Hunting
Grounds years ago, ﬂeeing some deeper calamity.
Their two leaders—a spellcaster named Galudu and a
warrior named Dulac—led them into the safety of an
old lodge in the Hunting Grounds level. From there,
the calignis explored upward, reaching an abandoned
shrine of Nhimbaloth and eventually discovering a
gug mystic named Urthagul. Urthagul laired in a
cave resonating with strange psychic whispers that
awed the calignis. Some of the calignis, led by Dulac,
revered the gug and his eerie visions; others remained
skeptical of Urthagul’s powers. This ultimately
resulted in a schism: the self-named Cult of Urthagul
inhabits the shrine, and Galudu’s calignis reside in
the lodge below. The two groups aren’t enemies, but
they only rarely interact.
The Cult of Urthagul has grown increasingly
insular and zealous. (Urthagul, for his part, hardly
even noticed their presence, much less their worship.)
The calginis hunt chuul eggs from the lake, ritually
cooking and consuming them as part of their strange
rites. Dulac and her second-in-command, Padli, have
both gained occult powers from meditating on the
whispers in Urthagul’s cave, which they use to keep
the cult in line.
When Belcorra awakened, she visited the shrine
to Nhimbaloth and was surprised to ﬁnd the calignis
there. She visited with Urthagul and found that the
gug’s strange behavior wasn’t only due to the psychic
emanations of the cave, but also because the gug had
found the Crimson Fulcrum Lens and communed with
the splinter of Nhimbaloth’s essence inside it. Belcorra
realized the lens was probably safe in the gug’s claws,
but she didn’t want it to end up in the hands of some
interloper cult she didn’t have the time or desire to deal
with. She tasked her wisp minions to keep the calignis
contained within their shrine.
It frustrates the cult to be apart from the object of
their veneration. Dulac is desperate for a solution, so
the heroes might ﬁnd the calignis eager to talk.
Yldaris Drow
The drow outpost of Yldaris lies on the next level
of the Abomination Vaults, but their silent, skilled
hunters have established a watch post in an abandoned
Children of Belcorra outpost. The heroes might ally
with the drow here, which makes a peaceful meeting
with Yldaris more likely in Chapter 9.
Farm Features
The vast caverns of this level and the many structures
and rooms within them are normally dark, though
EVENT: BELCORRA ATTACKS!
Ghost stories work best when the ghost is an active
and terrifying adversary. When any wisp in Chapters
8 or 9 see the heroes, they immediately alert Belcorra
through the magic of the swampy basins throughout
the lower Abomination Vaults. Belcorra is worried to
hear that the heroes have penetrated this far, and
she resolves to harry them until the other dungeon
denizens can overcome them. The sidebar on page
148 sets out in detail how to most eﬀectively use
Belcorra’s attacks, and you might use this event
multiple times in the last few chapters.
XP Award: Each time the heroes survive one of
Belcorra’s attacks, award them 30 XP. Increase
this to 80 XP if they manage to defeat her in a
confrontation and force her to rejuvenate.
i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> S
20 2024
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Sep 20, 2024
24868604
4425156
