i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> S
20 2024
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Sep 20, 2024
24868712
4425264
254
OPEN GAME LICENSE VERSION 1.0A
The following text is the property of Wizards of the Coast, Inc. and is Copyright 2000 Wizards
of the Coast, Inc. (“Wizards”). All Rights Reserved.
1. Deﬁnitions: (a) “Contributors” means the copyright and/or trademark owners who have
contributed Open Game Content; (b) “Derivative Material” means copyrighted material
including derivative works and translations (including into other computer languages),
potation, modiﬁcation, correction, addition, extension, upgrade, improvement, compilation,
abridgment or other form in which an existing work may be recast, transformed or adapted; (c)
“Distribute” means to reproduce, license, rent, lease, sell, broadcast, publicly display, transmit
or otherwise distribute; (d) “Open Game Content” means the game mechanic and includes the
methods, procedures, processes and routines to the extent such content does not embody the
Product Identity and is an enhancement over the prior art and any additional content clearly
identiﬁed as Open Game Content by the Contributor, and means any work covered by this
License, including translations and derivative works under copyright law, but speciﬁcally
excludes Product Identity. (e) “Product Identity” means product and product line names,
logos and identifying marks including trade dress; artifacts, creatures, characters, stories,
storylines, plots, thematic elements, dialogue, incidents, language, artwork, symbols, designs,
depictions, likenesses, formats, poses, concepts, themes and graphic, photographic and other
visual or audio representations; names and descriptions of characters, spells, enchantments,
personalities, teams, personas, likenesses and special abilities; places, locations, environments,
creatures, equipment, magical or supernatural abilities or eﬀects, logos, symbols, or graphic
designs; and any other trademark or registered trademark clearly identiﬁed as Product
identity by the owner of the Product Identity, and which speciﬁcally excludes the Open Game
Content; (f) “Trademark” means the logos, names, mark, sign, motto, designs that are used by a
Contributor to identify itself or its products or the associated products contributed to the Open
Game License by the Contributor (g) “Use”, “Used” or “Using” means to use, Distribute, copy,
edit, format, modify, translate and otherwise create Derivative Material of Open Game Content.
(h) “You” or “Your” means the licensee in terms of this agreement.
2. The License: This License applies to any Open Game Content that contains a notice
indicating that the Open Game Content may only be Used under and in terms of this License.
You must aﬃx such a notice to any Open Game Content that you Use. No terms may be added
to or subtracted from this License except as described by the License itself. No other terms or
conditions may be applied to any Open Game Content distributed using this License.
3. Oﬀer and Acceptance: By Using the Open Game Content You indicate Your acceptance of
the terms of this License.
4. Grant and Consideration: In consideration for agreeing to use this License, the Contributors
grant You a perpetual, worldwide, royalty-free, non-exclusive license with the exact terms of
this License to Use, the Open Game Content.
5. Representation of Authority to Contribute: If You are contributing original material as Open
Game Content, You represent that Your Contributions are Your original creation and/or You have
suﬃcient rights to grant the rights conveyed by this License.
6. Notice of License Copyright: You must update the COPYRIGHT NOTICE portion of this
License to include the exact text of the COPYRIGHT NOTICE of any Open Game Content You
are copying, modifying or distributing, and You must add the title, the copyright date, and
the copyright holder’s name to the COPYRIGHT NOTICE of any original Open Game Content
you distribute.
7. Use of Product Identity: You agree not to Use any Product Identity, including as an
indication as to compatibility, except as expressly licensed in another, independent Agreement
with the owner of each element of that Product Identity. You agree not to indicate compatibility
or co-adaptability with any Trademark or Registered Trademark in conjunction with a work
containing Open Game Content except as expressly licensed in another, independent Agreement
with the owner of such Trademark or Registered Trademark. The use of any Product Identity in
Open Game Content does not constitute a challenge to the ownership of that Product Identity.
The owner of any Product Identity used in Open Game Content shall retain all rights, title and
interest in and to that Product Identity.
8. Identiﬁcation: If you distribute Open Game Content You must clearly indicate which
portions of the work that you are distributing are Open Game Content.
9. Updating the License: Wizards or its designated Agents may publish updated versions of
this License. You may use any authorized version of this License to copy, modify and distribute
any Open Game Content originally distributed under any version of this License.
10. Copy of this License: You MUST include a copy of this License with every copy of the Open
Game Content You distribute.
11. Use of Contributor Credits: You may not market or advertise the Open Game Content using
the name of any Contributor unless You have written permission from the Contributor to do so.
12. Inability to Comply: If it is impossible for You to comply with any of the terms of this
License with respect to some or all of the Open Game Content due to statute, judicial order, or
governmental regulation then You may not Use any Open Game Material so aﬀected.
13. Termination: This License will terminate automatically if You fail to comply with all
terms herein and fail to cure such breach within 30 days of becoming aware of the breach. All
sublicenses shall survive the termination of this License.
14. Reformation: If any provision of this License is held to be unenforceable, such provision
shall be reformed only to the extent necessary to make it enforceable.
15. COPYRIGHT NOTICE
Open Game License v 1.0a © 2000, Wizards of the Coast, Inc.
System Reference Document © 2000, Wizards of the Coast, Inc.; Authors: Jonathan Tweet,
Monte Cook, and Skip Williams, based on material by E. Gary Gygax and Dave Arneson.
Pathﬁnder Core Rulebook (Second Edition) © 2019, Paizo Inc.; Authors: Logan Bonner, Jason
Bulmahn, Stephen Radney-MacFarland, and Mark Seifter.
Daemon, Guardian from the Tome of Horrors Complete © 2011, Necromancer Games, Inc.,
published and distributed by Frog God Games; Author: Scott Greene, based on original
material by Ian McDowall.
Daemon, Derghodaemon from the Tome of Horrors Complete © 2011, Necromancer Games,
Inc., published and distributed by Frog God Games; Author: Scott Greene, based on original
material by Gary Gygax.
Froghemoth from the Tome of Horrors Complete © 2011, Necromancer Games, Inc.,
published and distributed by Frog God Games; Author: Scott Greene, based on original
material by Gary Gygax.
Skulk from the Tome of Horrors Complete © 2011, Necromancer Games, Inc., published
and distributed by Frog God Games; Author: Scott Greene, based on original material by
Simon Muth.
Soul Eater from the Tome of Horrors Complete © 2011, Necromancer Games, Inc., published
and distributed by Frog God Games; Author: Scott Greene, based on original material by
David Cook.
Abomination Vaults Adventure Path © 2022, Paizo Inc.; Authors: Vanessa Hoskins, James
Jacobs, and Stephen Radney-MacFarland, with Ron Lundeen.
PAIZO INC.
Creative Director • James Jacobs
Director of Game Design • Jason Bulmahn
Director of Visual Design • Sarah E. Robinson
Director of Game Development • Adam Daigle
Development Managers • Jason Keeley, Ron Lundeen, and Linda Zayas-Palmer
Senior Developer • Jason Tondro
Developers • Eleanor Ferron, Thurston Hillman, Jenny Jarzabski, Luis Loza,
and Patrick Renie
Starﬁnder Lead Designer • Joe Pasini
Starﬁnder Senior Developer • John Compton
Organized Play Line Developers • Jessica Catalan and Mike Kimmel
Design Manager • Mark Seifter
Pathﬁnder Lead Designer • Logan Bonner
Designers • James Case and Michael Sayre
Managing Editor • Leo Glass
Senior Editor • Avi Kool
Editors • Patrick Hurley, Ianara Natividad, K. Tessa Newton, Solomon St. John,
and Shay Snow
Managing Art Director • Sonja Morris
Art Directors • Kent Hamilton, Kyle Hunter, and Adam Vick
Senior Graphic Designer • Emily Crowell
Production Designer • Justin Lucas
Director of Brand Strategy • Mark Moreland
Paizo CEO • Lisa Stevens
President • Jeﬀrey Alvarez
Chief Creative Oﬃcer • Erik Mona
Chief Financial Oﬃcer • David Reuland
Chief Technical Oﬃcer • Vic Wertz
Director of Project Management • Glenn Elliott
Project Coordinator • Lee Rucker
Vice President of Sales & E-Commerce • Mike Webb
Sales & E-Commerce Assistant • Mika Hawkins
Sales Manager • Cosmo Eisele
Vice President of Marketing & Licensing • Jim Butler
Director of Licensing • John Feil
Marketing Coordinator • Leah Beckleman
Marketing and Media Manager • Aaron Shanks
Director of Community • Tonya Woldridge
Organized Play Coordinator • Alex Speidel
Accountant • William Jorenby
Accounting & AP Specialist • Eric Powell
Finance Operations Specialist • B. Scott Keim
Director of Technology • Rei Ko
Front End Engineering Lead • Andrew White
Senior Software Developer • Gary Teter
Software Architect • Brian Bauman
Software Developer • Robert Brandenburg
Software Test Engineers • Erik Keith and Levi Steadman
System Administrators II • Whitney Chatterjee and Josh Thornton
Web Content Manager • Maryssa Lagervall
Webstore Coordinator • Katina Davis
Customer Service Team • Raychael Allor, Heather Fantasia, Keith Greer, Logan Harper,
and Austin Phillips
Warehouse Manager • Jeﬀ Strand
Logistics Coordinator • Kevin Underwood
Warehouse Distribution Lead • Heather Payne
Warehouse Team • Alexander Crain, James Maﬁ, and Loren Walton
This product is compliant with the Open Game License (OGL) and is suitable for use with the Pathﬁnder
Roleplaying Game (Second Edition).
Product Identity: The following items are hereby identiﬁed as Product Identity, as deﬁned in the Open
Game License version 1.0a, Section 1(e), and are not Open Game Content: All trademarks, registered
trademarks, proper nouns (characters, deities, locations, etc., as well as all adjectives, names, titles, and
descriptive terms derived from proper nouns), artworks, characters, dialogue, locations, organizations,
plots, storylines, and trade dress. (Elements that have previously been designated as Open Game Content,
or are exclusively derived from previous Open Game Content, or that are in the public domain are not
included in this declaration.)
Open Game Content: Except for material designated as Product Identity, the game mechanics of this Paizo
game product are Open Game Content, as deﬁned in the Open Game License version 1.0a, Section 1(d). No
portion of this work other than the material designated as Open Game Content may be reproduced in any
form without written permission.
Abomination Vaults Adventure Path © 2022, Paizo Inc. All Rights Reserved. Paizo, the Paizo golem logo,
Pathﬁnder, the Pathﬁnder logo, Pathﬁnder Society, Starﬁnder, and the Starﬁnder logo are registered
trademarks of Paizo Inc.; Abomination Vaults, the Pathﬁnder P logo, Pathﬁnder Accessories, Pathﬁnder
Adventure, Pathﬁnder Adventure Card Game, Pathﬁnder Adventure Card Society, Pathﬁnder Adventure
Path, Pathﬁnder Battles, Pathﬁnder Combat Pad, Pathﬁnder Flip-Mat, Pathﬁnder Flip-Tiles, Pathﬁnder
Legends, Pathﬁnder Lost Omens, Pathﬁnder Pawns, Pathﬁnder Roleplaying Game, Pathﬁnder Tales,
Starﬁnder Adventure Path, Starﬁnder Combat Pad, Starﬁnder Flip-Mat, Starﬁnder Flip-Tiles, Starﬁnder
Pawns, Starﬁnder Roleplaying Game, and Starﬁnder Society are trademarks of Paizo Inc.
Printed in China. It’s dark as a dungeon, damp as the dew; the dangers are many, the pleasures are few.
i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> S
20 2024
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Sep 20, 2024
24868712
4425264
