i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> S
20 2024
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Sep 20, 2024
24868570
4425122
112
but easily comes off if tried. The sarglagon in area F5
has broken away the grate’s bolts for easy access to
the seugathis’ chambers, but it has yet to muster the
courage to venture into this room.
The steep staircase to the southeast leads up to the
gladiators’ mead hall (area E25). The charred circle in
the eastern wing is the other end of the teleportation
circle in the mead hall.
Creature: Upon arrival, the characters ﬁnd a
destrachan systematically shattering crystal chunks
with its destructive harmonics at the command of a
seugathi in the observation gallery. Hungry for fresh
meat, it attacks the heroes immediately, particularly
if they arrive with dramatic clanging through the
teleportation circle. The destrachan ﬁghts to the death
and pursues any foes that ﬂee. The seugathi in the
observation gallery, if present, takes notes throughout
the combat.
DESTRACHAN
CREATURE 8
Pathﬁnder Bestiary 2 71
Initiative Perception +20
F10. PRISONER PROCESSING
MODERATE 6
Anchored shackles and fetters line the north and west walls,
and bloodstains obscure the stone ﬂoor. At the east and
south, two sets of double doors lead out of the room; two
steep staircases beside each of them lead further below.
While Belcorra lived, jailers brought prisoners up the
stairs and shackled them to the walls before processing
their paperwork on a desk that has long since been
removed. These captives were then shufﬂed into the
arena, ready to meet their death for the entertainment
of Belcorra’s cheering guests. This room became a
frequent battleground during the brief the turf war
between Jafaki and Urevian. When some degree of
peace settled over these levels, Jafaki’s creations still
held this room. A single ﬂeshwarp remains on guard.
Three steps down the northern stairs, a solitary key
lies forgotten beneath a crusty chunk of dried viscera.
A hero who Searches the stairs and succeeds at a DC
15 Perception check locates it. The key has a round
shaft tipped with several teeth of varying length. It
opens one of the locks in area F7.
The stairs descend to area G12. The hallway on the
other side of the south double door gently slopes 10
feet down to the arena.
Creature: A single irnakurse guards this room. The
seugathis don’t realize it, but the devils have inﬂicted
an infernal malediction to gradually weaken the
creature. It’s now constantly restless and tense, but
it remains determined to slaughter anyone who isn’t
accompanied by a seugathi.
AFFLICTED IRNAKURSE
CREATURE 8
Pathﬁnder Bestiary 2 6, 118
Initiative Perception +16
Fearful Curse The irnakurse is permanently frightened 2,
which lowers its eﬀective level by 1.
F11. WARPED BREW TAVERN
MODERATE 6
Polished wooden tables, chairs, and a long wooden bar
mark this chamber as a tavern. The smell of spilled beer
and fried morsels pervades the room. In the southeast
corner, an elevated stage overlooks the seating. Doors lead
out of this room along all four walls, including a double
door to the west that looks to be the main entrance.
Once an elaborate dining hall for Belcorra’s
gladiators and guests, this area has, over the years,
taken on the function of a tavern for ﬂeshwarped
creatures, those waiting to undergo ﬂeshwarping, and
a few rare visitors. It has had its current name—the
Warped Brew Tavern—for more than a century. Due
to Jafaki’s general lack of discipline, many of this
level’s denizens come here to drink, gamble, argue
about who’s next to go under the seugathis’ knives,
and listen to Shadow Malice, the resident band.
The door to the southwest opens onto a steep
stairway that leads up to area E9. When the poltergeists
there started ﬂinging debris down the stairway, the
patrons stopped using it, except as a garbage disposal.
The stairway is greater difﬁcult terrain.
Creatures: Five creatures are usually found in the
tavern: a female drider named Lallizanx ﬂipping
through a book ﬁlled with crudely drawn drow erotica,
two morlocks playing a card game called towers,
a morlock tending the bar, and another morlock
complaining to the bartender about having to wait so
long for her ﬂeshwarping. There’s a 1 in 4 chance that
the tavern’s band, Shadow Malice, is on stage when
the heroes arrives; instead of randomly determining
this, you can also decide whether the band is playing.
Lallizanx is ostensibly the bouncer, but cares little
about what happens in the tavern. The morlock
patrons hope to be chosen for ﬂeshwarping in the near
future, and even the morlock bartender looks forward
to becoming like the powerful dreshkans who come
here from time to time.
Everyone here assumes that intruders from the
surface, like the heroes, have come to start a ﬁght. If
the heroes quickly display peaceful intentions, these
patrons keep a close eye on them but resume their
i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> S
20 2024
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Sep 20, 2024
24868570
4425122
