i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> S
20 2024
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Sep 20, 2024
24868486
4425038
28
Treasure: The mitﬂits found the morningstar and
are delighted with how well it keeps the skeleton
propped up. They don’t know it’s a +1 morningstar.
A10. MUDLICKER THRONE ROOM
SEVERE 1
Splintered framing in the ceiling and ﬂoor hint that thin
wooden walls once divided this stone building’s interior.
With those walls demolished, only a single, large chamber
remains. Rubble, swamp vegetation, and mud pile in heaps
like foul nests, while a larger stack of rubble, sticks, and
bones looks almost, but not quite, like a throne. A ﬂattened
mound of sand with a few dozen bits of wood and stone
stuck into it covers the ﬂoor before the throne.
The mitﬂits chose these old barracks for their
commander, Boss Skrawng, to use as a throne hall.
Boss Skrawng’s fragile throne requires constant
upkeep, a task two mitﬂits perform when they aren’t
sleeping in the ﬁlthy nests here.
Any hero looking at the sand mound in front of the
throne can attempt a DC 10 Society check to realize it
represents a crude map of Otari. On a critical success,
the hero notes several arrows that indicate plans of
attack from the direction of Fogfen.
Creatures: Boss Skrawng is always here, splitting
his time between berating other Mudlickers within
earshot, playing with his pet giant solifugid Bite Bite,
sleeping on his throne, or planning attacks on Otari in
his sand pile. If Boss Skrawng knows about the heroes
in the vicinity, he sits on his throne at attention with
Bite Bite at his side, ready to address them.
Boss Skrawng knew that it was just a matter of
time before heroes from Otari challenged him in his
domain, but he seems surprised that it happened
before he actually did anything to the town.
Unlike the other mitﬂits, Boss Skrawng
speaks Common, and he imperiously
demands to know why the heroes have
come to bother him before he attacked
Otari. If he realizes the heroes didn’t
come to confront him, he pathetically
backpedals, insisting that he has no plans
to attack and that he’s harmless and friendly.
He punctuates this reversal by using his trident
to scatter the map of Otari at his feet. Canny
heroes who can Lie to Boss Skrawng about their
reasons for being here can talk to him and perhaps
ﬁnd out some of what he knows about Gauntlight
Keep (page 29), but it doesn’t take long before Boss
Skrawng’s negligible bravery and greater impatience
prompt him to begin his assault on Otari by attacking
the heroes.
If combat breaks out, Boss Skrawng orders his
minions into melee, but he hangs back to use his
blowgun from behind the cover of his throne. At
the end of each of Boss Skrawng’s turns, the throne
shakes and shudders dangerously. It doesn’t collapse
unless a hero damages it (the throne has AC 10,
Hardness 2, and 3 HP). If the throne collapses,
Boss Skrawng becomes ﬂustered. He immediately
falls prone and must spend at least 1 action during
each of his next 3 turns sputtering and cursing in
Undercommon. Boss Skrawng gives up and begs for
mercy if he’s reduced to 5 or fewer Hit Points, but
his followers ﬁght to the death to demonstrate their
devotion to Boss Skrawng while he lives.
BITE BITE
CREATURE 1
Giant solifugid (Pathﬁnder Bestiary 2 246)
Initiative Perception +7
Boss Skrawng
i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> S
20 2024
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Sep 20, 2024
24868486
4425038
