i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> S
20 2024
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Sep 20, 2024
24868680
4425232
222
to the glow of a ghost when it is consumed by the Outer
Goddess Nhimbaloth. A lantern of empty light is not
intrinsically an evil item, though it remains a favored
tool of those who would manipulate the minds of others
for sinister reasons. It can be used as a normal bull’s-eye
lantern, but prolonged use tends to instill in the user a
vague sense of being watched by unseen eyes, even
when the lantern isn’t in use.
Activate ʚʖ Interact (emotion, visual);
Frequency once per day; Eﬀect You direct
the lantern’s light upon a single living
creature within 60 feet. That creature
must attempt a DC 20 Will save to
resist the light’s eﬀects.
Critical
Success
The
creature
is
unaﬀected and realizes that you
attempted to mentally inﬂuence them
with the light.
Success The creature is unaﬀected but
thinks the light was harmless, unless
it knows the true nature of the
lantern already.
Failure The creature becomes fascinated
by the lantern’s light, and remains
fascinated as long as you Sustain the Activation, up to
10 minutes.
Critical Failure As failure, but you can Sustain the
Activation for up to 1 hour. When the eﬀect ends,
the fascinated creature remembers any events
that took place while fascinated only as indistinct,
dream-like memories.
Activate ʚʖ Interact; Frequency once per day; Eﬀect
You direct the lantern’s light upon a single incorporeal
undead creature within 60 feet to siphon away some of
the creature’s essence, dealing 4d8 positive damage to
the creature (DC 20 basic Will save).
OCHRE FULCRUM LENS
ITEM 11
UNIQUE
ENCHANTMENT
INVESTED
OCCULT
Price 1,400 gp; Bulk 2
This brownish-orange lens always feels dusty and gritty,
regardless of how often it’s polished, though it doesn’t
impede light shining through it.
While you have the Ochre Fulcrum Lens invested,
lassitude grips you and your emotions are hard to sway.
You gain resistance 10 to mental damage and a +2 status
bonus to saves against emotion eﬀects.
You can also activate the lens in the following ways.
Activate ʚʖ Interact; Frequency once per day; Eﬀect You
hold up the Ochre Fulcrum Lens in your hand and the
item casts crushing despair (DC 31 Will save).
Activate ʚʖ Interact (attack, possession); as Crimson
Fulcrum Lens, but the melee spell attack modiﬁer is +21.
Pantheon
A pantheon is a collection of deities worshipped
together. The rules for following a pantheon are on
page 92 of Pathﬁnder Lost Omens Gods & Magic.
COSMIC CARAVAN
As friends of Wrin Sivinxi, the heroes all know that she
follows a pantheon of deities collectively
known as the Cosmic Caravan. Any
hero who wants to can learn about this
pantheon from her.
COSMIC CARAVAN
Areas of Concern constellations, fortune telling,
the night, hope for a better tomorrow
Alignment CG (CG, CN, NG)
Divine Font harm or heal
Divine Ability Dexterity or Charisma
Divine Skill Occultism
Domains darkness, fate, freedom, moon
Alternate Domains star, void
Cleric Spells 1st: object reading APG, 2nd:
glitterdust, 6th: blanket of stars APG
Edicts spend time stargazing or meditating
in moonlight, aid those who live in regions where
Zon-Kuthon (or other religions that espouse the night
as a bastion for evil) hold sway, help the desperate or
forlorn to see potential for a better life in the future,
travel with no particular destination in mind
Anathema portray the night as a time of evil, destroy
astronomical or astrological equipment, spend the night
in the same place twice in a row
Favored Weapon starknife
The Cosmic Caravan is known to astronomers and
astrologers alike as a collection of constellations in the
sky, said to travel forever in a circle around the star
Cynosure. The association of a diverse array of gods
and demigods thematically linked with the stars and
the spaces between is a relatively new faith that ﬁrst
rose to prominence in western Avistan, particularly in
Varisia, Nidal, and Ravounel. The deities worshiped by
the faithful of the Cosmic Caravan include: Desna and
Sarenrae; the empyreal lords Ashava, Black Butterﬂy,
and Pulura; the elven god Ketephys; the outer god
Yog-Sothoth; and, in the regions where he is known,
the moon god Tsukiyo. This faith has been gaining
ground particularly in Nidal, where the worship of the
night is overwhelmingly associated with Zon-Kuthon,
and a rising number of Cosmic Caravan worshipers
seek to oppose or, one day, even overthrow the
Midnight Lord’s theocracy to reclaim the night from
the implications that all who dwell in the dark are evil.
Lantern of Empty Light
i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> S
20 2024
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Sep 20, 2024
24868680
4425232
