i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> S
20 2024
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Sep 20, 2024
24868470
4425022
12
between the central dome and the surrounding circle is
a collection of other dome-shaped tents used to store the
shop’s wares. When it’s not raining, the fabric
of these domes is pulled aside so shoppers
can admire what’s for sale in the light of
the sun—or the moon, for that matter,
as Wrin’s Wonders is always open.
Wrin Sivinxi has what she regards
as a very good reason for the curio
shop’s strange arrangement—she
sees safety in curves and menace
in angles and suffers from a touch
of claustrophobia. The central dome
is her domicile, and she’s painted the
interior surfaces to resemble a night
sky featuring all the constellations
of the Cosmic Caravan, so that even
on overcast nights she can fall asleep
under the stars. More information
about Wrin appears on page 18.
WRIN’S WONDERS
SHOP 5
DISCOUNT
LIBRARY
LODGE
Address 60 Osprey Street
Wares adventuring gear, eclectic bric-a-brac, magic items
(non-ammunition consumable items, held items, staves,
wands, worn items)
Fortune Telling Wrin performs an astrological fortune
telling (using her Read the Stars ability) for anyone
who provides her with an unusual item or story.
Spellcasting Wrin’s spellcasting services are available,
but she’s limited to the spells listed in her stat block
(page 19).
Wrin Sivinxi (CG female tieﬂing elf oddities merchant 5,
Friendly, Perception DC 22, Will DC 22). Wrin’s Wonders
supports the heroes as long as Wrin’s convinced they’re
making genuine eﬀorts to explore Gauntlight’s mysteries.
When Wrin’s Wonders supports the heroes, Wrin Reads
the Stars for them for free as often as they’d like.
5. GALLENTINE DELIVERIES
A large sign depicting a man riding at breakneck speed
on horseback as he balances a stack of packages in
one hand stands out in front of this large building.
Owned and operated by Oloria Gallentine, a retired
Immenwood ranger, Gallentine Deliveries handles
Otari’s post, both within town limits and beyond.
GALLENTINE DELIVERIES
COURIER 4
EMPLOYER
GARRISON
Address 120 Roseguard Road
Wares stabling, transportation (caravan or carriage)
Deliveries Local deliveries cost 1 cp per Bulk and are
generally delivered within 24 hours. Deliveries to
Absalom or Diobel (or for points beyond) cost 5 cp
per Bulk and are delivered weekly; for 1 gp per Bulk, a
delivery can be expedited to arrive in 2 days.
Oloria Gallentine (LN female human ranger 4,
Indiﬀerent, Perception DC 21, Will DC 19). If the
heroes earn the support of Gallentine Deliveries,
they can make local deliveries, allowing them to
Earn Income using Society.
6. BLADES FOR GLADES
Otari’s primary smithy specializes in
the construction of saws, axes, and
other tools used in the lumber
trade. The current owner of
Blades for Glades is a bitter
man named Carman Rajani,
who boasts of being descended
from one of Otari’s founders, Vol
Rajani. He hopes to supplant Oseph
Menhemes as the town’s mayor someday, but
after losing four mayoral elections in a row
despite his pedigree, Carman is planning other ways
to seize his birthright. He makes his move when the
heroes open the deeper levels at the start of Chapter 5.
BLADES FOR GLADES
SHOP 5
DISCOUNT
EMPLOYER
WORKSHOP
Address 50 Ilvashti Street
Wares metal adventuring gear, metal weapons, metal
shields, metal armor
Carman Rajani (LE male human scoundrel 6, Unfriendly,
Perception DC 22, Will DC 20). If the heroes gain the
support of Blades for Glades, Carman might take them
on as part-time apprentices—provided the heroes don’t
strike Carman as being too nosy or law-abiding. A hero
whom Carman doesn’t regard as a potential snitch can
Earn Income using Crafting.
7. ODD STORIES
A three-story stone tower rises from the back half of
this one-ﬂoor wooden bookstore. A sign above the front
door depicts a stack of open books with lines of magical
energy rising from the pages. While the shop’s owner is
indeed a wizard, Morlibint had the sign commissioned
in an attempt to portray the power of imagination
within the fanciful ﬁction works and anthologies
that are his specialty. Morlibint sells other texts as
well, although he leaves the nonﬁction curation to his
husband Carlthe, whose expertise makes Odd Stories
the primary source of textbooks and teaching tools for
Inkleholtz’s educational pursuits (see Inkleholtz Manor
on page 15). Morlibint has bright red hair that he keeps
Morlibint
i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> S
20 2024
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Sep 20, 2024
24868470
4425022
