i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> S
20 2024
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Sep 20, 2024
24868590
4425142
132
The guardian here made these carvings to pass the
time. Each carving represents a nonsense metaphysical
question in Infernal, such as “Who are you if you are
no one?” and “When your soul is consumed, do you
consume yourself?” The creature likes to pose these
types of questions during their interrogations to make
victims puzzle over them in search of deeper meanings
and feel foolish upon failing to ﬁnd any.
Creature: A bone devil named Iyagian stands watch
here at Urevian’s command. Unhappy with serving as a
mere guard, yet bound by the contractual terms of their
service, Iyagian treats their charge very literally. They
never warn the erinyes in the summoning chamber of
any trouble and don’t leave this room no matter what
they hear elsewhere unless they’re personally under
attack. If given the chance to talk, Iyagian freely explains
their role and offers some of their nonsense meditations.
The devil uses the time the heroes spend contemplating
to ask questions using their Stygian Inquisitor ability.
Iyagian quickly loses patience, however, and insists the
heroes must leave or risk their wrath. If combat begins,
the bone devil ﬁghts to the death.
IYAGIAN
CREATURE 9
Osyluth (Pathﬁnder Bestiary 2 73)
Initiative Perception +13
G7. SUMMONING CHAMBER
SEVERE 7
A stairway at the room’s south end leads north to a platform
overlooking a cylindrical chamber. Half-melted candles cover
a stone altar perched on this platform’s edge. Above the
altar, water slowly drips from a crack in the ceiling and onto
the platform, the droplets rapidly evaporating in the stiﬂing
heat. Six heavy chains suspend a wide metal disk above a
magma pool that illuminates the chamber with an orange
glow. A ﬁery pentagram features visibly atop the disk.
Belcorra had geomancers divert a natural magma
ﬂow to pool here. She then commissioned the creation
of the ritual altar and the summoning circle atop
the disk. Belcorra summoned several ﬁends in this
chamber, binding each to her service. The greatest of
these was Urevian, as her contract with him gave her
access to all the devils who serve Urevian as well.
The ceiling is 20 feet tall at the doors of this room.
As the stairs descend to the platform, the ceiling stays
the same height, so it’s 25 feet above the platform. The
disk is at the same level as the platform, but the 15-foot
gap over magma makes it daunting to reach.
The air in this chamber is magically cooled to only
severe heat (Core Rulebook 518), dealing 1d6 ﬁre
damage every hour. The 10-foot-deep magma pool
presents a greater danger; immersion in the magma
deals 20d6 ﬁre damage each round. A hero who
succeeds at a DC 23 Crafting or Religion check realizes
that the magma’s heat powers the summoning circle.
The Cracked Ceiling: A character who succeeds at
a DC 23 Nature check (or a related Lore skill, such as
Mining Lore) recognizes that the crack in the ceiling
allows water to drip down from the underground
lake directly above (area F4). If the heroes widen this
crack—a task requiring appropriate tools, the ability to
reach the ceiling, and several hours of chipping away
the stone—the drips become a trickle, then a ﬂood. The
rush of water ﬁlls the room with steam and cools the
magma to stone over a few hours. The hero also knows
that cooling the magma destroys the summoning circle.
Creatures: Twin erinys sisters are trying to convert
the summoning circle into a permanent gate to Hell.
Concerned more with the theory of extraplanar portals
than the application, the sisters spend a lot of time
discussing their work but haven’t done much to enact
it. Furious at interruptions to their discourse, they most
likely attack intruders. However, if they think a hero
shares their interests (such as if they see a hero summon
a creature in a ﬁght), they offer to cease combat to
discuss the ﬁner points of extraplanar lore. When
they’ve learned all they think they can, the erinyes
attempt to murder the rival scholar.
ERINYES (2)
CREATURE 8
Pathﬁnder Bestiary 89
Initiative Perception +18
Items +1 striking composite longbow, one erinys has a
fragment of Urevian’s pendant (see area G10)
G8. ISOLATION CHAMBER
SEVERE 7
The door to this cell has a note afﬁxed over a small
sliding grate at eye level. Written by the imp Szek
in Common, Undercommon, and Infernal, the note
reads, “Do not disturb if you value your limbs.”
The walls and ﬂoor of this chamber are covered in short
spikes just long enough to cause discomfort to anyone
standing, sitting, or leaning on them.
Once a chamber to detain particularly headstrong
or troublesome prisoners, this room has seen very little
use until recently.
This isolation chamber no longer has a lock, so
the door closes but doesn’t latch. Anyone moving the
note and sliding the grate aside to look in the cell sees
its gug occupant meditating; if she succeeds at a DC
30 Perception check when the grate slides aside, she
awakens from her meditation.
i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> S
20 2024
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Sep 20, 2024
24868590
4425142
