i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> S
20 2024
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Sep 20, 2024
24868580
4425132
122
The seugathis use this area as a storage closet. Only
their alien minds can comprehend why they store
things like broken tables, three cots hopelessly tangled
together, a dismantled clock, a brass kettle with four
evenly spaced holes in its bottom, and seven mustard-
yellow and moth-eaten bedsheets.
Treasure: A hero Searching this area might ﬁnd rare
treasures hidden among this trash. Each successful DC
22 Perception check reveals one item, while a critical
success reveals two. The valuables include an emerald
grasshopper, a hand of the mage, an iron cube, and two
ichthyosis mutagens (page 213).
F24. TORTURE CHAMBER
LOW 6
As the heroes approach this room, there’s a 1 in 3
chance that one of the zebubs in the room is invisibly
patrolling the hallway. If it spots the heroes but
isn’t detected, it returns to the torture chamber with
dimension door to alert the other devils, who prepare
to rush out of the room and attack.
The stone walls of this chamber appear to glisten with
blood. An iron maiden stands in one corner, while the other
corner has a metal table bristling with nails.
Belcorra felt the natural red stone walls of this room,
which appear slick due to water seeping through them,
made it an ideal place for a torture chamber. The
victims here were usually gladiators in the arena who
she felt showed mercy or an insufﬁcient will to ﬁght.
Creatures: Urevian sent a barbazu and two zebubs
to secure a foothold on this ﬂoor and prepare for an
incursion. The barbazu keeps weapons at the ready and
awaits further orders. A zebub sometimes patrols the
corridor to the north to ensure they aren’t caught. When
they spot one of Jafaki’s minions in the corridor, they
attack, drag the minion back, and torture it to death.
The iron maiden currently holds a morlock’s corpse.
A devil reduced to fewer than 15 Hit Points ﬂees
from combat and heads back to the prison level
(using dimension door if possible). They report the
heroes’ presence to Urevian, who then reassigns them
elsewhere on that level, at your discretion.
BARBAZU
CREATURE 5
Pathﬁnder Bestiary 88
Initiative Perception +13
Items hellforged glaive
Melee Ȱɵ hellforged glaive +15 (agile, deadly 1d10, evil,
forceful, magical, reach 10 feet), Damage 1d8+7 slashing
plus 2d6 evil and infernal wound
ZEBUBS (2)
CREATURE 3
Pathﬁnder Bestiary 2 72
Initiative Perception +12
Treasure: The weapon racks hold two +1 glaives, a
bloodletting kukri, a standard-grade cold iron shield,
and three moderate acid ﬂasks.
F25. MAIN LABORATORY
The door to this chamber is locked with a good-quality
lock. A character who succeeds at ﬁve DC 30 Thievery
checks to Pick a Lock opens the door; alternatively,
the key held by the seugathi in area F20 can also open
it. The heroes can Force Open the sturdy door with a
successful DC 30 Athletics check.
Books, glass bottles emitting smoke, and clumps of slime
ﬁll the shelves that cover the high walls of this chamber.
The southern area displays the dissected remains of several
creatures, pinned to a wall like rare and unusual specimens.
The head of a morlock, somehow kept alive through some
mechanical means with tubes and wires connecting to its
body, screams a constant hoarse note.
The ceiling of this room is 25 feet high, and its
shelves go all the way to the ceiling.
JAFAKI’S BACKGROUND
Belcorra ﬁrst spotted Jafaki and several other
seugathis slithering through the Darklands while
she was building the Abomination Vaults. They
expressed an eagerness to serve her and advance their
own experiments. Belcorra knew the seugathis could
improve her forces, as well as expand. She tasked them
with building her a perfect soldier, then making armies
of them to conquer Absalom. Knowing that perfection
HELLFORGED WEAPONS
Weapons forged in the depths of Hell often gain
sinister powers. Urevian established a hellforge
on the prison level (area G4) and has gifted a few
of his favored followers with hellforged weapons
manufactured there. In the hands of a devil, these
hellforged weapons gain the agile and deadly d8
weapon traits (if the weapon already has the deadly
trait, increase the size of the deadly damage die by
one step instead of giving it deadly d8). Although
worth as much as an ordinary weapon of its kind,
hellforged weapons exude palpable menace, so
upstanding merchants usually refuse to trade in them.
i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> S
20 2024
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Sep 20, 2024
24868580
4425132
