i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> S
20 2024
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Sep 20, 2024
24868540
4425092
82
trusty longsword of the ﬁghter Vol Rajani. These
other three icons are described on page 217 and
can be found on the surface. Recovering them is
the focus of the ﬁrst part of the next chapter.
Once the heroes take on the burden of facing and
defeating Belcorra and open the way to the deeper
levels of the Abomination Vaults, Otari’s soul is free
to travel to its ﬁnal reward. You should ensure he has
imparted all of the above information to the heroes
before he fades away.
If you wish, though, you can put a darker spin
on things—rather than have Otari’s spirit achieve
freedom, it could instead be captured by the temple of
Nhimbaloth at the bottom of the Abomination Vaults.
In this case, the heroes should learn about Otari’s fate
through a vision or nightmare, or perhaps even see his
tormented ghost pulled downward against his will.
Otari’s ghost remains trapped until the heroes ﬁnally
defeat Belcorra.
OTARI ILVASHTI
CREATURE 9
UNIQUE
CG
MEDIUM
GHOST
INCORPOREAL
SPIRIT
UNDEAD
Male ghost adventurer (Pathﬁnder Bestiary 166)
Perception +18; darkvision
Languages Common, Elven, Gnomish
Skills Acrobatics +18, Society +18, Stealth +20, Thievery +20
Str –5, Dex +6, Con +0, Int +4, Wis +3, Cha +4
Site Bound (area D18)
AC 25; Fort +16, Ref +20, Will +17
HP 120, negative healing, rejuvenation; Immunities death
eﬀects, disease, paralyzed, poison, precision, unconscious;
Resistance all damage 10 (except force, ghost touch, or
positive; double resistance vs. non-magical)
Rejuvenation Securing the four icons of the Roseguard
and placing them on the altar in area D13 allows Otari to
move on to the afterlife.
Speed ﬂy 25 feet
Melee Ȱɵ ghostly hand +19 (agile, ﬁnesse, magical),
Damage 3d6+6 negative
Filth Fever (disease) The sickened and unconscious
conditions from ﬁlth fever don’t improve on their own
until the disease is cured. Saving Throw DC 25 Fortitude;
Stage 1 carrier with no ill eﬀect (1d4 hours); Stage 2
sickened 1 (1 day); Stage 3 sickened 1 and slowed 1 as
long as the aﬀected creature remains sickened (1 day);
Stage 4 unconscious (1 day); Stage 5 dead
Infested Shadow ʚʖ (conjuration, divine, teleportation)
Otari fades away, momentarily emerges from the
shadow of another creature within 30 feet, and makes a
ghostly hand Strike against a single target within reach
of this creature (but not against the creature whose
shadow he infests). On a successful Strike, the target is
also ﬂat-footed until the start of Otari’s next turn. Otari
then reappears at his starting point. The creature whose
shadow Otari infests is exposed to ﬁlth fever.
Sneak Attack Otari deals an additional 2d6 precision
damage to ﬂat-footed creatures.
D19. THE FOREVER STAIRS
The walls of this ﬁve-foot-wide hallway shimmer and ripple
with faint whorls of pale blue energy. A staircase to the west
leads upward, and the one to the east leads down. Both the
ascending and descending stairs reach small landings.
While at ﬁrst glance this hallway might seem
unremarkable, it should quickly become clear that
something truly strange is going on once the heroes
start to travel it. The hallway loops back upon itself;
for example, if the heroes choose to go clockwise, the
stairs will always lead upward, but they end up at
the same place they started after making a complete
circuit. Belcorra created this distorted spatial effect in
the early days of her construction of the Abomination
Vaults as she was experimenting with several magical
methods of delivering her monsters directly into the
streets of Absalom. While she ultimately abandoned
spatial warping as too inefﬁcient to be used on a
sufﬁciently large scale, she kept this warped hall she
constructed as a sort of defensive “moat” around her
personal quarters.
The outside doors to areas D13 and D14 are always
present, but the alcove and door to area D20 are
concealed by an illusory wall created by a 5th-level
illusory object spell. The Will DC to disbelieve the
illusion is 26, but the heroes might ﬁnd the wall in other
ways. A hero who succeeds at a DC 20 Perception check
while Searching the north hallway or a DC 20 Arcana
or Occultism check while Investigating the north hall
identiﬁes anomalies in the blue energy that indicate
something unusual about that section of the wall.
XP Award: Grant the heroes 30 XP the ﬁrst time
they manage to reach area D20.
D20. BELCORRA’S SUITE
EXTREME 4
These four angled rooms have identical basic
descriptions; adjust the following as needed to account
for the location of any doors in the room. Area D20d
also features a plain stone archway in one wall ﬁlled
with blank stone. This is an inactive portal to the
depths of the Abomination Vaults.
A pair of doors provide exits from this room, one of
which is set a foot higher than the room’s dusty ﬂoor on a
semicircular step.
i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> S
20 2024
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Sep 20, 2024
24868540
4425092
