i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> S
20 2024
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Sep 20, 2024
24868606
4425158
148
rack over the basin holds several brown and purple eggs,
each about the size of a human head, cooking in the smoke.
The walls are painted with sweeping lines and whorls.
Belcorra crafted these chambers centuries ago as
both a shrine to Nhimbaloth and as a base to study the
strange visionary effects of the island caves (area H12).
Calignis of the Cult of Urthagul now use this room for
prayer and meditation and to cook the chuul eggs they
harvest from the lake. The ones being cooked now are
the last of the cult’s current store of eggs.
A secret door to the lodge on the lower level is
hidden amid the abstract patterns painted on the west
wall. The calignis know about the secret door but
are reluctant to reveal it. A hero Searching this room
ﬁnds the door and the hidden knob to open it with a
successful DC 25 Perception check. The door’s other
side has an obvious latch mechanism that isn’t hidden.
Creatures: Six calignis meditate here and attack if
disturbed. They believes their death ﬂames empower
Urthagul, so they ﬁght tenaciously to the death.
CALIGNI STALKERS (6)
CREATURE 4
Pathﬁnder Bestiary 51
Initiative Perception +10
H4. STORAGE
This square chamber is ﬁlled with a jumble of open boxes,
casks, bundles of torches, and faintly glowing plants.
USING BELCORRA EFFECTIVELY
During their trek through the lowest levels of the Abomination Vaults, the heroes likely face Belcorra several times before
they ﬁnally acquire the fulcrum lenses they need to defeat her for good. She learns about them from her wisp allies, as
described in the sidebar on page 146, and you can thereafter use her whenever her appearance might cause the most
tension. She should attack at least once on each dungeon level, as often as every couple of days. You shouldn’t have
Belcorra ﬁght alongside other creatures until the Adventure Path’s ﬁnale—she’s tough enough on her own!
Belcorra’s statistics appear on page 204. Each time Belcorra attacks, she learns more about how the heroes ﬁght and
adapts her tactics. She might cast spell immunity to protect herself from the heroes’ most eﬀective spells, true seeing to
keep them in sight, or dispel magic to counter their magical defenses. She mocks the heroes for their failures and rages at
their successes—remember, she has been aware of them since her test ﬁring of Gauntlight’s beam in Chapter 2.
First Attack: As soon as Belcorra realizes the heroes’ presence, she seeks them out, traveling through the Gauntlight
footprint (areas H37 and I28). She casts phantasmal calamity at a distance and retreats, moving through walls if
necessary so the heroes can’t follow.
Second Attack: Belcorra wants the heroes to fear her, so she approaches them more closely the second time and uses
single-target spells like feeblemind and phantasmal killer while demanding the heroes ﬂee her Abomination Vaults. With
her message delivered, she retreats after only a few rounds.
Later Attacks: Once the heroes have recovered a fulcrum lens or the Fulcrum Lattice, Belcorra considers the heroes an
actual threat, but her anger overrides her caution. She attacks with her full might, using her Corrupting Gaze and ghostly
hand along with her spells. If she defeats a hero, she retreats, conﬁdent that they’ll now leave her alone.
Leveraging Agents: Belcorra has several living allies within the Abomination Vaults, including the urdefhan cult and the
Children of Belcorra. She might send these groups after the heroes, insisting they let the heroes know they’re acting on Belcorra’s
orders. Fortunately, neither group can muster large numbers at once, so the heroes should be able to handle their attacks.
Killing Allies: Belcorra learns if the heroes make alliances, such as with the calignis or drow. She knows better than
to face powerful, entrenched leaders like Galudu or Quara, but she might murder a few guards or direct monsters where
they can do the most damage to the heroes’ allies. It’s important to Belcorra that she leave some evidence (usually a
single, injured survivor) to let the heroes know she orchestrated the attack.
In the Footprint: Belcorra is most eﬀective ﬁghting the heroes who enter the Gauntlight footprint (areas H37 and I28)
due to her Haunted Lighthouse ability.
The Final Attack: If the heroes defeat Belcorra shortly before they reach the Empty Vault, she uses the power of the
Ebon Fulcrum Lens to hasten her rejuvenation so she can face them in her sanctum.
Belcorra doesn’t ever surrender or ﬂee in the Empty Vault. The heroes could possibly face her there without yet having
the ability to permanently defeat her. In this case, they’ll need to retreat to collect the fulcrum lenses and return to face
her again. Once the heroes can focus Nhimbaloth’s gaze upon Belcorra, they can defeat the sorcerer for good.
i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> S
20 2024
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Sep 20, 2024
24868606
4425158
