i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> S
20 2024
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Sep 20, 2024
24868572
4425124
114
deem appropriate to impress a crowd. (This DC is the
Performance DC of the band member, which is 22 for
all of them). Record each hero’s degree of success.
The second part is the group phase.
Shadow Malice performs a high-energy
musical number, then passes over their
instruments for the heroes to use (if the
heroes don’t have any instruments of their
own). Unlike the individual contests, this phase
requires a Performance check. If the heroes
balk, Ryta grins and says, “This stage is for
performers, friends.” To compete, one hero
must attempt a DC 22 Performance
check. This hero is the lead
performer. Any number of
other heroes can Aid at this
check. In addition, the lead
performer’s Performance
check gets a +2 bonus
for each hero who got
a critical success in the
individual phase, a +1 bonus for
each hero who got a success in the
individual phase, and a –1 penalty for each hero who
got a critical failure in the individual phase. Unlike
the normal rules for bonuses, these bonuses to the
Performance check are cumulative with each other.
If the lead performer succeeds at this ﬁnal
Performance check, Ryta acknowledges that the
heroes are Shadow Malice’s superiors on the stage
and resolves to leave them alone. Word gets back to
Vischari about the heroes’ success, and the tavern
manager treats them with a modicum of respect. On
a critical success, Ryta gives the heroes the group’s
instruments, insisting that the instruments belong
in the hands of such talented performers. The other
members of Shadow Malice grumble at this decision
but sullenly comply.
If the lead performer fails at this ﬁnal Performance
check, Shadow Malice sees the heroes as being out of
their depth and resolves to attack the heroes right on
the stage. The band members’ statistics are described
in area F18. Anyone remaining in the tavern simply
watches the ﬁght, considering it a bloody part of the
show. On a critical failure, the patrons join the ﬁght
after the ﬁrst round, which means the heroes should
likely make a hasty retreat before getting overwhelmed.
Treasure: The gambling morlocks have a total of 15
gp, 181 sp, a gold tooth worth 5 gp, and a perfectly
fossilized tuna skeleton on the table. Behind the bar,
there’s 28 gp and 74 sp in the cash box and a vial with
sloughing toxin (page 214) that the bartender can use
to poison troublesome patrons.
XP Award: If the heroes participate in the challenge
against Shadow Malice, award them the usual
30 XP for completing a side quest. If the
heroes win, award them an additional
80 XP.
F12. KITCHEN
This dirty kitchen features a lit stove
replete with oil stains, gristle, and the
strong aroma of smoke. Alcoves to the
north contain meat hooks and overﬂowing
baskets of fungus.
Many creatures that frequent the Warped
Brew are evil carnivores who relish the
ﬂesh of the living, so the meat hooks
often have intelligent creatures dangling
from them. There are three such
creatures here now. All still live but are
unarmed, weakened from their captivity, and
desperate to avoid being placed on the menu.
The creatures include a deep gnome named
Glashdrumdur, a drow named Falxi Orshendiel, and a
skulk named Jedzeli. The heroes ﬁnd all three of them
tightly bound, hanging from meat hooks, and unable
to free themselves.
Glashdrumdur: This grumpy deep gnome warrior
(Pathﬁnder Bestiary 75) has been here the longest
and is currently unconscious. If roused, he’s quick to
swear vengeance against the ﬂeshwarped raiders who
captured him. After even a few moments of reasoned
reﬂection, he acknowledges he’s outclassed and prefers
to leave the Abomination Vaults behind. He has little
to tell the heroes.
Falxi Orshendiel: This young drow rogue (Pathﬁnder
Bestiary 137) is chaotic neutral. The most alert when the
heroes ﬁrst arrive here, he quickly asks for his freedom.
He knows the seugathis have considered transforming
him into a drider or feeding him to the patrons here,
and he desperately wishes to avoid either fate. He
explains that he hails from a small drow settlement
deeper underground called Yldaris, but he’s unwilling
to give much detail about Yldaris to strangers. He says
only that the city welcomes traders and that the heroes
should visit, peacefully, if they come to the area. Falxi
and two other drow were scouting farther from their
settlement than usual when urdefhans attacked them;
he was knocked unconscious and somehow ended
up here. Though selﬁsh, Falxi isn’t evil (nor are the
other inhabitants of Yldaris). If the heroes let him go,
he eventually returns to Yldaris and might meet the
heroes in area I6. The heroes’ encounter with Falxi
Falxi Orshendiel
i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> S
20 2024
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Sep 20, 2024
24868572
4425124
