i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> S
20 2024
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Sep 20, 2024
24868530
4425082
72
Treasure: A search of the guests’ remains reveals 48
gp, a bracelet of dashing, and a viper arrow.
D2. KITCHEN
A strange, squat cast-iron stove with no chimney sits in the
southwest corner of this room, while to the north, a large
oak table covered with cooking utensils sits against a wall.
A skeletal body slumps at the base of the cupboards along
the western wall.
The stove magically transmutes smoke welling up
from its ﬁre into clean air, but it’s built into the stone
of this room and far too heavy to be worth the trouble
of hauling away from the dungeon. The body was once
Belcorra’s cook, who died by suicide after carrying out
Belcorra’s magical commands to poison the guests and
kill the other servants.
A hero who Searches this room and succeeds at a
DC 19 Perception check spots a secret door to the
north. Some cooking utensils are afﬁxed to the wall;
manipulating them in the correct order opens the
secret door.
D3. STORAGE
The walls of this chamber are lined with cupboards,
shelves, and cabinets. A few barrels sit in the middle of the
room. Two skeletons lie slumped near the barrel.
The skeletons were two other servants who retreated
to this storage room before being murdered by the
chef. Nothing of value remains.
D4. WINE CELLAR
A tall wine rack, its bottles thick with dust after so many
years, stands against the north wall.
Treasure: Nearly all of this wine has gone bad, but a
successful DC 18 Society check is enough to note three
valuable bottles worth 20 gp each.
D5. LEVEL FOUR PORTAL CHAMBER
The walls of this chamber are decorated with twisting
runes carved into the wall and ﬁlled with dull, silvery
metal. The ﬂoor and ceiling are almost completely covered
with large, polished metal discs.
This room contains an inert teleportation circle
like the ones in areas B17 and C16. This teleportation
circle must be reactivated with the awaken portal
ritual hidden in area C35 to connect it to other portal
chambers in the dungeon.
XP Award: Award the heroes 30 XP for activating
this portal.
D6. WASHING ROOM
A dusty metal washtub with a small skeleton lying inside
sits next to a low shelf in this room.
As the guests in area D1 were dying of poison,
one of them managed to stab a halﬂing servant who
staggered into this large dish washing tub and died.
If the skeleton is disturbed, the tub momentarily
appears to be clean and ﬁlled with soapy water before
returning to its actual dusty state. The scent of harsh
dish soap clings for a minute before fading.
D7. DISPOSAL ROOM
LOW 4
An open metal hatch lies in the ﬂoor against this room’s
east wall. Storage bins sit to the north and south, each
heaped with old bones, broken tools, and lumps of stone.
Several bones in one of the trash bins belong to a
human, which a hero Investigating the bones can easily
determine. A servant slipped against a trash bin and died
here two days before Belcorra’s last meal in area D1. The
other servants simply hefted her body into the bin.
The hatch opens into a long chute that leads to
the disposal pond at area D17. Anyone who enters
the chute swiftly slides down to the pond in a rough
trip that deals 3d6 bludgeoning damage (DC 20 basic
Reﬂex save) upon landing. Anyone in the chute who
doesn’t want to slide down can arrest their fall with
a successful DC 18 Reﬂex save to Grab an Edge or
with a successful DC 18 Acrobatics or Athletics check
to brace in place. In either case, a successful DC 18
Athletics check is required to safely traverse the chute.
Creatures: The spirit of the servant who accidentally
died here has returned as a poltergeist wracked with
indignation. It’s lurking here, invisible, but it doesn’t
attack until it’s spotted or someone approaches the
lip of the chute. It hurls debris from the trash bins or
uses telekinetic maneuver to Shove foes into the open
hatch. It ﬁghts until destroyed but can’t leave this
room. The poltergeist can be put to rest by disposing
of its remains in a respectful manner, such as cremating
them or saying a word of blessing over them.
POLTERGEIST
CREATURE 5
Pathﬁnder Bestiary 264
Initiative Stealth +14
i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> S
20 2024
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Sep 20, 2024
24868530
4425082
