i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> S
20 2024
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Sep 20, 2024
24868496
4425048
38
graveyard and act the part of heroes, feel free to have
an ofﬁcial like Captain Longsaddle, Mayor Oseph
Menhemes, or Vandy Banderdash ask them to deal
with the situation. If the heroes continue to hesitate,
the undead might become a bigger problem.
OTARI GRAVEYARD
SEVERE 2
The soil of Otari’s graveyard roils and churns in the eerie
blue light. Dozens of skeletons and shambling corpses
haul themselves free from the ground and rush to the
south. Without any hesitation, the walking dead plummet
over the cliﬀ’s edge to rain down upon the domes of the
Dawnﬂower Library below.
Most of the undead raised by Gauntlight’s beam
plummet to their grisly destruction over the cliffs,
though a few remain in the graveyard. Yet the damage
is done—Otari’s citizens are horriﬁed and panicked. If
the heroes step into the graveyard to take on the few
remaining undead, the ﬁght is an important symbolic
stand—this is the heroes’ ﬁrst real step toward being
recognized as Otari’s saviors.
Creatures: A total of ﬁve skeleton guards and three
zombie shamblers remain active in the graveyard.
These foes technically constitute a severe encounter for
2nd-level characters, but canny heroes have a number
of advantages. The undead are scattered throughout
the graveyard with no undead within 30 feet of any
other, although they quickly move toward any ﬁght or
distraction. Stealth and ranged tactics could well thin
the opposition before they close in. With the undead
being scattered, the heroes won’t need to deal with
large numbers all at once if they’re quick and efﬁcient.
The four nearby town guards are horriﬁed by the
situation and are unlikely to be of much help—they
ﬂee if attacked. At your discretion, and particularly if
a hero manages to make a Request of the guards or
Coerce their aid, some of them might ﬁght. Guards can
also drag a fallen hero to safety. In the event you need
statistics for the guards, use the statistics for a guard
on page 232 of the Pathﬁnder Gamemastery Guide,
but treat the guards as frightened 3 at the start of any
ﬁght they join.
SKELETON GUARDS (5)
CREATURE –1
Pathﬁnder Bestiary 298
Initiative Perception +2
Unarmed These unarmed skeletons ﬁght with their claws.
ZOMBIE SHAMBLERS (3)
CREATURE –1
Pathﬁnder Bestiary 340
Initiative Perception +0
ABOMINATION’S ARRIVAL
MODERATE 2
Belcorra watches with amusement from afar as the
heroes deal with the undead. As soon as that ﬁght ends,
though, she decides it’s time to test Gauntlight’s primary
function: teleporting monsters in among her enemies.
Belcorra takes a moment to order her apprentice Volluk
to bring one of the scalathraxes from area D10 into area
D9. This delay grants the heroes a few minutes to recover
from their previous ﬁght. She then focuses Gauntlight’s
beam upon the heroes’ location to transport the creature
there. The illumination raises gooseﬂesh on those it
touches and scatters any remaining guards in a panic.
Creatures: An instant after Gauntlight’s beam shines
upon the heroes, a spiderlike scalathrax manifests in
their midst—and, just as quickly, Gauntlight goes dark.
The aberration uses Stealth to determine its initiative
and immediately attacks, ﬁghting to the death. Any
hero who witnesses the creature’s sudden arrival and
succeeds at a DC 20 Arcana or Occultism check (either
during or after the ﬁght) realizes that the creature was
teleported into the area via the beam.
SCALATHRAX
CREATURE 4
Page 243
Initiative Stealth +13
DYING LIGHT
Once Gauntlight has delivered the scalathrax and gone
dark, it will be at least a month before the artifact can
return to a point where Belcorra can activate it again.
She might do so to animate more undead or teleport
another monster into town, either to attack the heroes
directly or to simply spread panic.
Of course, the townsfolk have no idea about this
schedule, and the fear that Gauntlight could shine
again at any moment has the citizens terriﬁed. People
fear to go outside after dark, and rumors about
Belcorra’s return run rampant. Assuming the heroes
played a key and visible role in defeating the undead
and the scalathrax, they’re soon contacted by mayor
Oseph Menhemes, who asks them to do what they
can to ﬁnd out what caused this event and, if possible,
prevent it from occurring again. Feel free to have other
town notables be present at this time—give the heroes
the chance to rise to the occasion. In any event, Oseph
promises a reward of 50 gp per hero from the town
treasury if they return to Gauntlight Keep and see to it
that Gauntlight never shines on Otari again.
Servants’ Quarters Features
The ﬁrst underground level of the Abomination Vaults
once served as the quarters for Belcorra’s servants.
Here, the workers lived and toiled out of sight from
i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> S
20 2024
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Sep 20, 2024
24868496
4425048
