i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> S
20 2024
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Sep 20, 2024
24868710
4425262
252
Dread Wisp
Will-o’-wisps native to the Darklands are more ominous and malevolent
than those that bob about in the lonely marshes and surfaces of the
upper world. These dread wisps instill terror with eerie shifts of light and
consume the fear they create, drawing life energy from their victims in the
process. While dread wisps can survive anywhere within the Darklands,
they prefer moist areas like the banks of underground rivers.
Dread wisps don’t glow as brightly as surface will-o’-wisps because even
the dimmest light attracts notice underground. Long-lived and hateful
creatures, they remember vivid details about their lives, travels, and most
delicious prey. Although dread wisps could share extensive lore and unique
experiences, they don’t, as they ﬁnd amusement in others’ ignorance.
DREAD WISP
CREATURE 9
UNCOMMON
CE
SMALL
ABERRATION
Perception +20; darkvision
Languages Aklo, Undercommon
Skills Acrobatics +23, Deception +16, Intimidation +16, Stealth +23
Str –5, Dex +6, Con +0, Int +2, Wis +4, Cha +2
AC 31; Fort +14, Ref +21, Will +18
HP 90, negative healing; Immunities magic; Weaknesses positive 10
Dread Flickering (aura, light) 20 feet. A dread wisp, though naturally invisible,
glows with a grayish illumination, casting dim light in the aura and making them
visible. Living creatures that end their turn in the aura must succeed at a DC 25
Will saving throw or become frightened 1 (or frightened 2 on a critical failure).
Those that critically succeed are temporarily immune for 10 minutes.
Magic Immunity A dread wisp is immune to all spells except faerie ﬁre, magic
missile, maze, searing light, and spells with the positive trait.
Speed ﬂy 50 feet
Melee Ȱɵ draining touch +17 (magical, negative), Damage
3d8+8 negative plus wearying touch
Feed on Despair Ȱɵ (concentrate, necromancy, negative,
occult); Frequency once per round; Requirement An
enemy within 15 feet of the dread wisp is under a
fear eﬀect, drained, or dying; Eﬀect The dread wisp
feeds on the creature’s despair. The dread wisp
regains 2d8 Hit Points and deals 3d8 negative
damage to the creature (DC 25 basic Fortitude
save), and if the dread wisp has Gone Dark, their
Dread Flickering reignites.
Go Dark Ȱɵ (concentrate) The dread wisp
extinguishes their Dread Flickering, becoming
invisible. They can end this eﬀect with another use of
this action. If the dread wisp uses their draining touch
Strike while invisible, the arc of pale energy lets any
observer determine their location, making them hidden to
all observers only until the dread wisp moves.
Shadow Flitter Ȱɵ (conjuration, occult, teleportation) The dread
wisp teleports to a square they can see within 30 feet that isn’t in an area of
bright light. The dread wisp can’t use Shadow Flitter again for 1d4 rounds.
Wearying Touch If the dread wisp critically hits with their draining touch Strike,
the target is drained 1.
DREAD WISP ORIGINS
The origins of will-o’-wisps are hotly
debated, but dread wisps have
a commonly understood origin.
Surface wisps give momentary hope
to those lost and scared in a dark
and damp wilderness, but nearly
all of the Darklands is dark and
damp. Hope has little place here,
and deﬁant people and menacing
monsters populate the Darklands.
Subterranean will-o’-wisps adapted
to overcome these new, resilient food
sources. Dread wisps descended
from those tenacious survivors.
i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> S
20 2024
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Sep 20, 2024
24868710
4425262
