i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> S
20 2024
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Sep 20, 2024
24868490
4425042
32
still slightly turned, so the heroes can easily spot this
secret door.
Creatures: Two long-dead acolytes of Nhimbaloth
have decomposed into little more than mossy skeletons
sprawled along the eastern edge of the large chamber
to the north, initially out of sight of anyone entering
from the south. They’re far from harmless, however,
as they harbor eerie creatures called corpselights.
The corpselights rise when the heroes approach the
northern chamber. They ﬁght until destroyed but don’t
pursue heroes who ﬂee. The ﬁrst corpselight to fall and
be reduced to its wisp form animates the corpse of the
dead thief at the secret door if it’s still available—or in
an even darker turn, a dead hero!
CORPSELIGHTS (2)
CREATURE 2
Page 232
Initiative Perception +7
Treasure: The thief’s corpse has several items of
value, including a +1 rapier, four daggers, a silver
ring worth 5 gp, a minor healing potion, and a
lesser darkvision elixir. The acolyte skeletons have
little remaining that hasn’t rotted or rusted away to
uselessness with two exceptions: one of them has a
gold tooth worth 4 gp still in its jaw, while the other
acolyte wears a channel protection amulet around its
bony neck.
A hero Searching the altar who succeeds at a DC 18
Perception check ﬁnds a secret panel on its northern
side, which has a shallow nook that contains a scroll
of restore senses and a 1st-level wand of heal.
A16. RUINED BOATHOUSE
A hero who takes a close look at the doors to this
boathouse notices that one of them has been forced
open and then carefully closed again within the past
couple of weeks.
The southern portion of this stonewalled building has
collapsed into rubble, exposing what remains of a
boathouse to the elements. The shelves and boats within
have decayed into heaps of rot and moss. The remains of a
relatively fresh campﬁre smolder faintly.
The campﬁre’s remnants hint at the presence of a
group of thieves from Otari—a band from Crook’s
Nook (page 14) who came here several days ago after
hearing rumors of treasure stashed in a cavern under
the island. They entered area B19 below only to get
in over their heads when they were trapped in the
dungeon and imprisoned by some of the Ghost Queen
morlocks there.
A17. RUINED PIER
Much of this wooden pier has collapsed into the swamp,
leaving about ten feet of moldy, soggy boards slumped
against ancient wood pilings. A rowboat tied to a piling
looks much more recently built.
The rowboat, left here by the Crook’s Nook thieves,
is in good condition. The heroes can use it to navigate
the waters around the ruins, and heroes Searching
the rowboat ﬁnd two things. The ﬁrst is a stash of
pastries—smoked salmon in a ﬁsh-shaped doughy
exterior; a hero who succeeds at a DC 12 Society
check recognizes the “ﬁshcakes” as those sold at the
Crook’s Nook in Otari. The second is a carving of a
ﬂying bird decorating the inside of the boat near the
bow. A hero who succeeds at a DC 16 Society check
recognizes that this mark belongs to the Osprey Club,
Otari’s thieves’ guild (a critical success conﬁrms that
the Osprey Club uses Crook’s Nook as a headquarters
and that guild members bear the mark of the ﬂying
bird as a tattoo).
If the heroes come here after dark, the ﬂickerwisp
at area A24 ﬂickers in an attempt to lure them closer.
An opening under the pier leads to area B19. At
your discretion, the river drake Freznelkesh might
venture out to hunt in the Fogfen and spot the heroes
while they’re nearby. Freznelkesh is a difﬁcult foe for
a party of 1st-level characters, so you should have the
river drake take off to pursue larger, safer prey in the
swamp if the heroes are having a tough time dealing
with her.
Side Quest: Should the heroes visit Crook’s Nook
and ask about the boat, Yinyasmera admits that four
of her “employees” went missing several days ago. She
promises a 50 gp reward if the heroes can ﬁnd out what
happened to them and bring them back. One thief died
(area B14), and the morlocks have kept the other three
as prisoners (area B24).
A18. APPRENTICE ISLAND
A low wooden bridge spans a watery gap between the
larger island and a smaller one. A single-story building sits
amid the thick reeds growing on the smaller island.
The building on this islet originally served as the
home of Belcorra’s apprentice, a drow named Volluk
Azrinae. Volluk no longer lives here, but he still
serves Belcorra in the chambers deep below, having
transcended from the limitations of his humanoid
form to become a worm that walks (he now resides
in area D8).
i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> S
20 2024
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Sep 20, 2024
24868490
4425042
