i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> S
20 2024
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Sep 20, 2024
24868594
4425146
136
sides. I do not want to raze Otari, and I don’t want to
kill you. However, the contract I have with Belcorra
requires that as long as I remain within her employ, I
must pursue the domination of the surface world and
the destruction of her enemies. Once my contract ends,
so does my obligation to her. All I need is the soul of
Carman Rajani to fulﬁll the contract.”
How’s Carman Rajani corrupted? “Oh, that
bastard of a man. His soul is already damned for lying,
cheating, theft, vandalism, destruction of property,
arson, abuse of power, blackmail—even a murder. It
is quite clear where he shall go in the afterlife. You
would simply cut out the bureaucracy by giving him
to me directly.”
If we hand over Carman, he’ll never have a chance
at redemption. “Do you honestly believe that? Just
recently he burned a library and stole a historical
relic in some misguided ploy to win a political ofﬁce,
which he would just use to further abuse his power
and increase his wealth. If I did not need his soul for
this speciﬁc purpose, I would hire him.”
What do we get out of this arrangement? “Peace for
Otari. I will leave, taking all of my devils with me. And
when I go, the barrier preventing you from getting to
the lower level will disappear. If you would like, I can
direct my ﬂeshwarp minions to clear away the blocked
staircase, giving you a second way down. I can even
broker further agreements between you my devils.”
What further agreements? Urevian can arrange for
infernal contracts (page 218) with any of his surviving
barbazus (pact of blood-taking) or erinyes (right of
retribution). As Urevian drafts these agreements on
his devils’ behalf, skill checks to interpret the contracts
use a DC of 33 (Urevian’s Legal Lore DC), rather than
the contracts’ item levels.
We’ve already defeated your devils; you have nothing
to invade with. “Ah, but I can conscript more after I
kill you. The inconvenience is, at best, temporary.”
We’ll never make an agreement with you! “Are you
sure about that? Consider carefully. Turning down my
offer most likely means your death.” Urevian gestures
meaningfully to his barbazu bodyguards.
If the heroes take Urevian’s offer, he uses his Draft
Contract ability to summon a contract for them to sign in
blood. Urevian drafts an honest offer: upon his receipt of
Carman Rajani (or his soul) from the heroes, he will leave
the Material Plane along with all his devils remaining
in the Abomination Vaults. His departure immediately
removes the barrier in area G3. Before leaving, he will, if
the heroes wish, order any ﬂeshwarps to clear the staircase
leading down from area G1. His departure otherwise
doesn’t affect the ﬂeshwarps or other creatures in the
prison, leaving the heroes to deal with them. Heroes who
sign are compelled to work toward delivering Carman to
Urevian, as from a geas ritual (Core Rulebook 412).
If the heroes ultimately decline Urevian’s offer, he
sighs in disappointment before saying, “What more
should I have expected from mortals?” He then orders
his barbazus to attack. He casts ﬂame strike before
entering melee with his diabolic quill.
Convinced the heroes are mere mortals who can’t
overcome diabolic soldiers in combat, the barbazus ﬁght
to the death. The more injured Urevian becomes, the
more he tries to convince the heroes to accept his deal.
However, Urevian breaks off combat only if the heroes
agree to accept his terms. If he’s slain, the magical barrier
in area G3 vanishes, though the stairs remain blocked.
ASKING ADVICE
Your players might not spent a lot of time heavily
considering the moral question of whether to turn
over Carman Rajani over to Urevian. But perhaps
they thoughtfully debate the issue or even seek other
opinions. NPCs in Otari are split on the matter.
Vandy Banderdash thinks it’s wrong to bargain
with a devil using another person’s soul. She believes
that everyone deserves a chance at redemption, even
Carman. However, she holds a particular contempt
for thieves, as she never really recovered from the
betrayal of her sister stealing from her years ago. She
doesn’t push the heroes if they disagree with her.
Wrin Sivinxi also opposes the deal since she ﬁnds
limiting a soul’s freedom to be abhorrent.
Captain Longsaddle happily releases Carman to
the heroes so they can turn him over to the devil.
He considers this choice a straightforward way to
eliminate a serious threat to his town.
For once, Yinyasmera agrees with the guard
captain. She’s had so many past problems with
Carman that she’d also like to see him gone, especially
knowing that doing so would save the town.
Mayor Oseph Menhemes doesn’t take a position but
backs whatever choice the heroes make, especially
if they’ve been helping his daughter. The mayor
believes that the heroes are capable and trustworthy
decision-makers. If his opinion serves as a tie-breaker,
he leans toward showing Carman mercy.
Morlibint doesn’t oﬀer a direct opinion but
recommends several stories about dealing with devils
(virtually all of which turn out very poorly for the
mortals involved).
i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> S
20 2024
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Sep 20, 2024
24868594
4425146
