i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> S
20 2024
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Sep 20, 2024
24868545
4425097
87
Campaign
Overview
Otari
Chapter 1:
A Light
in the Fog
Chapter 2:
The Forgotten
Dungeon
Chapter 3:
Cult of the
Canker
Chapter 4:
Long Dream
the Dead
Chapter 5:
Into the Training
Grounds
Chapter 6:
Experiments
in Flesh
Chapter 7:
Soul Keepers
Chapter 8:
Decaying
Gardens
Chapter 9:
On the Hunt
Chapter 10:
To Draw the
Baleful Glare
Nhimbaloth
Adventure
Toolbox
Abomination
Vaults
ﬁne clothes, and rare whiskey. He started spending more time gambling
and drinking at the Crook’s Nook than he did at his smithy. Eventually the
inheritance money ran out, and Carman was faced with a sizable debt. Several
owed favors later, he started grifting travelers or hustling them at the knife-
throwing board at the Crook’s Nook. But his vices still outpaced his earnings
from petty cons, and soon he took to outright thievery under Yinyasmera’s
tutelage. The “Ace of Blades” is the moniker given to the best knife thrower in
the Crook’s Nook, and Carman Rajani has held that title for so long that it’s
become his nickname among fellow members of the Osprey Club.
Within a few years, Carman had settled into his new life, working
as a smith during the day, carousing at the Crook’s Nook at night, and
occasionally engaging in some petty larceny when his coin purse started to
get light. When he heard rumors that people thought he was wasting his life,
though, it stung his pride. He resolved to run for mayor against Oseph, to
show the whole town that his family was the equal of the Menhemes family.
Everyone thought Carman’s candidacy was a joke. The second time he
ran, his platform became nothing more than sharp personal attacks against
the Menhemes family; the townspeople felt the joke had gone sour and
considered it a waste of their time. He met their jibes with violence, getting
into brawls to prove he was the better man. The third time he ran for ofﬁce,
he actually put in effort to help the community. Though he lost by much
smaller margin, he took the loss as proof that kindness can’t get you any
further than your ﬁsts can. The fourth time, he tried to force a successful
campaign with open bribes and blackmail.
Oseph won by a landslide, showing up on Election Day wearing the
Cooperative Blade as part of his celebratory regalia. Carman ﬁnally decided
that the magic sword must be the key to his success. Everyone in town
knew it brought Otari good luck, so whoever held the sword had the town
in their pocket. As Vol’s heir, he deserved the sword. He begged Oseph to
sell the weapon, but Oseph suspected it was some new scheme—or worse,
connected to one of Carman’s rumored crimes or debts—and countered
with delays, excuses, and price increases.
Finally, Carman decided he’d had enough. If he wanted his family’s sword
back, he’d have to take it.
THE THEFT
While the heroes were off in the Abomination Vaults, Carman crept into the
Dawnﬂower Library and started a small ﬁre in the book restoration room.
While the ﬁre distracted the staff, he broke the Cooperative Blade’s display
case and ﬂed with the sword.
After an hour, the staff had put out the ﬁre without any serious injuries
and only a few lost books—a miracle the acolytes attribute to Sarenrae’s
protection. By the time anyone discovered the theft, Carman was already
on his way to a local cave called Smuggler’s Refuge. It didn’t take long for
the town guard to realize that the missing Carman Rajani was the prime
suspect. He had pestered the mayor about the sword for years, after all, and
a few witnesses saw someone matching his description absconding from the
library, clutching his cloak over some long object.
Vandy Banderdash, head priestess of the Dawnﬂower Library, meets with
the heroes when they come to ask about the sword. She can barely contain
her rage, although she seems more angry about the theft than the ﬁre. She
asks them to ﬁnd Carman and bring him in alive to face trial and receive an
appropriate punishment.
CHAPTER 5 SYNOPSIS
The chapter begins with the heroes
seeking the ﬁnal icons needed to
enter the Abomination Vault’s middle
levels, but a recent theft complicates
this task. The heroes confront the
thief, Carman Rajani, in a remote
cave, where they must decide what
to do with him—a choice they don’t
yet realize will have meaningful
repercussions later. They can
then explore the ﬁfth level of the
Abomination Vaults, which contains
masterless horrors and malevolent
spirits, and address a mystery
regarding the mayor’s daughter.
Environmental Cues (Smuggler’s
Cave): dripping water, mineral tang
in the air, broken crates, moldy
bedding, old campﬁres
Environmental Cues (Arena level):
dust with strange tracks in it, gouges
along walls, broken links of chains,
splintered furniture, unidentiﬁable
bones, rusted scraps of metal, bits of
broken claw or carapace
CHAPTER 5 TREASURE
The permanent and consumable
items available as treasure in
Chapter 5 are as follows.
•	 +1 striking composite shortbow
•	 +1 studded leather armor
•	 +1 tamchal chakram (page 226)
•	 bloodseeker beak
•	 bottled air
•	 climbing bolt
•	 Cooperative Blade (page 217)
•	 dragon turtle scale
•	 everburning torch
•	 greater hat of disguise
•	 hunter’s brooch (page 217)
•	 lesser sea touch elixir
•	 moderate bestial mutagen
•	 moderate juggernaut mutagen
•	 moderate quicksilver mutagen
•	 moderate tanglefoot bag
•	 ring of wizardry (type I)
•	 staﬀ of abjuration
•	 wand of heal (2nd level)
•	 wand of locate
•	 wand of summon animal (2nd level)
i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> S
20 2024
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Sep 20, 2024
24868545
4425097
