i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> S
20 2024
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Sep 20, 2024
24868568
4425120
110
A hero who Searches the walkway and succeeds at
a DC 20 Perception check ﬁnds a suspicious masonry
square near ﬂoor level. When pushed like a button,
this secret door to area F8 swings open.
Creature: Urevian sent a sarglagon to spy on Jafaki
and his plots several weeks ago. The sarglagon is
paranoid and unwilling to take risks that might overtly
expose their presence; therefore, they spend most
of their time fouling the water under the well if any
creatures come to ﬁll the bucket. If the heroes approach,
the devil believes they’ve been discovered by Jafaki’s
allies and desperately attacks. Unwilling to admit defeat
to Urevian, the sarglagon ﬁghts until slain. They carry
one of ﬁve pieces of Urevian’s pendant, used to open the
door into the contract devil’s domain (area G10).
SARGLAGON
CREATURE 8
Pathﬁnder Bestiary 2 73
Initiative Perception +18
Items fragment of Urevian’s pendant (see area G10)
Treasure: The abandoned hydra nest at the deepest
point of the pool contains the equipment and bones
of long-dead gladiators. The only intact piece of
equipment is a +1 resilient scale mail with lion motifs.
F6. DISSECTION CHAMBER
LOW 6
Metal shelves and operating tables hint at this room’s
original purpose. Clean bones and bits of rusted metal lie in
piles throughout the rest of the room.
Jafaki has dumped garbage in this medical bay for
decades. Three shafts in the ceiling lead up to area E4.
The lids at the top open easily from within the shafts.
A hero Searching through the detritus discovers a
large key with an elaborate, four-prong design among
the various bits of junk in this room. The key opens
one of the locks in the plinth room (area F7).
Creatures: Two ochre jellies lazily squelch around
this chamber, feeding on trash thrown here. They
move to creatures they sense, expecting food; if the
characters don’t immediately offer some sort of food,
the jellies attack, ﬁghting until destroyed.
OCHRE JELLIES (2)
CREATURE 5
Pathﬁnder Bestiary 255
Initiative Perception +7
Treasure: Amid the jumble of items scoured clean
by the oozes’ acid is a chain shirt, a steel shield, three
daggers, a pick, several caltrops, professional ﬁshing
tackle, a spyglass, 14 pitons, and 30 feet of chain.
F7. PLINTH ROOM
This chamber’s east and west walls feature sharply angled
alcoves bearing stone carvings too defaced to indicate what
they originally depicted. Two angled plinths stand here,
one in the alcove to the east and another in the alcove to
the west. A single door leads north; the south wall opposite
it bears the outline of a door but no handle or latch.
This mostly destroyed room once held relief art
extolling the majesty of Belcorra and Nhimbaloth. All
that remains are two plinths, one on both sides of the
room, that each bear a unique lock. The door to the
south and the one beyond it don’t open normally; each
is functionally a solid stone wall 2 feet thick unless
unlocked.
The eastern plinth features a lock with a round
keyhole; turning the proper key in this lock opens or
closes the northernmost door in the passage to the
south (the outline visible in this room) with a grinding
noise. The western plinth has four holes clustered
together in a metal plate; turning the proper key in
this lock opens or closes the southern of the two doors,
also with a loud grinding noise. Without the proper
keys, a character who’s a master in Thievery can
activate one of these tricky locks with ﬁve successful
DC 30 Thievery checks to Pick a Lock.
Three copies of each key exist scattered around this
level. The round key can be found on a shelf in the
old medical supply room (area E5) and in the prisoner
processing chamber (area F10). The four-pronged key
can be found on the ﬂoor of the old dissection chamber
(area F6) and in Vischari’s safe (area F16). Jafaki also
carries a copy of each key.
F8. OBSERVATION GALLERY
TRIVIAL 6
Fifteen feet below the ceiling, this gallery traverses all but
the east side of a large, bloodstained room with a ﬂoor
ﬁve feet lower than the gallery. A window made of cloudy,
transparent stone provides an excellent view of the nearby
room while blocking direct access to it. Two rounded
observation areas overlook the room from the north; a
small room to the south has a small table, an old chair, and
stairs leading up.
Belcorra used this walkway to observe one of her
champions closely as she pitted them against various
opponents or they settled disagreements through ritual
combat. A magical enchantment in the two rounded
observation vestibules transmit sound from the testing
ground into this observation gallery, but not vice
versa. The table features some pieces of chalk and
i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> S
20 2024
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Sep 20, 2024
24868568
4425120
