i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> S
20 2024
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Sep 20, 2024
24868534
4425086
76
her prisoners had nothing left to offer, or once she grew
bored, she sent them to area D13 for sacriﬁce. The dwarf
bartender Lasda inhabited the central hanging cage for
many months.
The northern cage has silver-lined runes carved into
its exterior. This cage is the destination of the inactive
teleportation circle in area C5b. It can be restored with
the awaken portal ritual; if so, it makes a useful way
to imprison anyone pushed into the alcove in area C5.
A hero who Searches the table and succeeds at a
DC 20 Perception check spots a hidden switch on its
underside that opens the secret door to the south.
Creatures: An evangelist velstrac named Vaulgrist
has been bound here by Belcorra’s magic for centuries.
The interminable years instilled a sense of listlessness
in the torturer, and she rarely even moves about the
room. Her hope of cruel amusements was brieﬂy
rekindled when she had Lasda to toy with, but she’d
only just begun a few months of laying the groundwork
for his torment when he was taken away. Her ennui
has returned even stronger than before.
At ﬁrst, Vaulgrist can hardly stir herself to
bother with the heroes. She morosely invites
them to depart this chamber and never return.
There’s no trick here—if the heroes simply leave
at once, the velstrac lets them go. If they persist or
question her, she sighs in frustration and attacks; she
has no interest in talking. She ﬁghts until destroyed but
doesn’t leave this area. With all the manacles present
here, Vaulgrist can use her animate chains ability from
anywhere in this room.
VAULGRIST
CREATURE 6
Female evangelist velstrac (Pathﬁnder Bestiary 2 282)
Initiative Perception +13
Treasure: The whip is a +1 ghost touch whip. It
was once one of Vaulgrist’s favorite weapons, but she
doesn’t use it any longer. Pay attention if a hero keeps
the whip, as it might have some use for them in area E2.
D12. THE GHOSTWALK
MODERATE 4
The ceiling of this wide hall rises to a height of twenty‑ﬁve
feet. Stone sarcophagi carved with tormented, emaciated
ﬁgures stand upright in alcoves along its walls. To the
northeast, a ﬁfteen-foot-wide portion of the wall has
crumbled away into a series of ledges that drop down into
a cavern. Eerie blue lights glow to the north and south—the
light to the south is brighter and constant, while the light
to the north ﬂickers softly.
This long hallway served as a gruesome trophy hall.
With the exception of the two northernmost alcoves
and the alcove leading to area D10, each sarcophagus
contains the deﬁled remains of one of Belcorra’s
enemies, stripped of gear and put on display. As soon as
anyone steps up to a sarcophagus, its stone lid becomes
transparent, providing a view of the long-dead body
within. Each corpse is dressed in rags and marked with
obviously fatal wounds. Most of these are the remains
of long-dead heroes with no signiﬁcant relation to the
Vaulgrist
i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> S
20 2024
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Sep 20, 2024
24868534
4425086
