i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> S
20 2024
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Sep 20, 2024
24868562
4425114
104
E24. HALL OF HEROES
A giant mural wraps around this entire chamber; this
mural depicts mutated and ﬂeshwarped warriors,
grotesque and powerful, standing in a round room within
a beam of eerie blue light. The blue light originates from
a tall lighthouse, and the inhuman champions spring
forth from the light to slaughter humans, elves, and other
surface-dwelling creatures.
The mural portrays how the arena’s greatest warriors
would be sent into battle by Gauntlight’s magic. The
display was intended to spur the gladiators to ﬁght more
fervently, which could have earned them the right to
battle on the surface in Belcorra’s name. The heroes likely
remember this function of Gauntlight from the artifact’s
recent test ﬁring that awakened Otari’s dead and sent a
scalathrax into the heroes’ midst in Chapter 2.
A hero Searching this room discovers a secret door in
the west wall that leads to area E20 with a successful DC
20 Perception check. Poking two buttons in the eyes of
a powerfully mutated ogre shown in the mural causes a
section of the wall to slide upward into the ceiling.
E25. GLADIATORS’ MEAD HALL
MODERATE 5
Overturned tables and benches, all made of petriﬁed wood,
lie scattered around the edges of this expansive chamber.
Pale bones are interspersed with these furnishings. Several
preserved monster heads and silver plaques adorn the
walls. A glowing circle of runes is etched on the ﬂoor of an
alcove to the east.
Belcorra’s gladiators spent their leisure time in this
room. The preserved monster heads display creatures
killed for sport, including a basilisk, a chimera, and
three manticores. The plaques commemorate victories
in the arena; many bear dates, and all occurred within
a 10-year period from 4235 ar to 4244 ar. The sturdy
furniture, though upended, remains intact.
The door to the south leads to a very steep staircase
descending to the testing grounds (area F9). Rarely did
anyone descend these stairs, though losers from the
ﬁghts below ascended them.
The circle of runes marks a permanent, active
teleportation circle that connects to the circle in the
testing grounds directly beneath it. This teleportation
circle functions both ways but doesn’t connect to the
portal chamber network throughout the Abomination
Vaults. A creature stepping into the teleportation circle
appears in the training grounds amid a blast of pale
blue ﬁre and a loud clanging noise (the ﬁre is principally
for dramatic effect and isn’t bright or hot enough to
cause damage). Anyone using the teleportation circle
to travel to the testing grounds appears with a sigil on
their forehead that reads “challenger” in Aklo. Anyone
using the teleportation circle to return here receives a
sigil that reads “victor” instead. A new casting of sigil
by the teleportation circle replaces any old one.
Creature: The scattered bones of gladiators,
slaughtered here shortly after Belcorra’s fall, still
hold on to the grim memory of death and combat.
When a living creature approaches, they rattle and
slide across the room, forming a massive gladiator
made from the assorted bones of several
humanoids. It tries to pursue
foes that ﬂee, but it can’t ﬁt
through any of the doors leading
out of this room, which allows
others to escape it fairly easily. It
ﬁghts until destroyed.
Viscous Black Pudding
i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> S
20 2024
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Sep 20, 2024
24868562
4425114
