i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> S
20 2024
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Sep 20, 2024
24868708
4425260
250
EMPTY CARESSES
Just as the cult of Nhimbaloth
regards will-o’-wisps as their
goddess’s eyes, their teachings hold
that ﬂickerwisps are the gentle
caress of her touch. To them, the
confusion imposed by a ﬂickerwisp
is akin to opening the mind to the
goddess’s presence, and many
cultists of the faith keep ﬂickerwisps
around to use in much the same
way other faiths use incense or
intoxicants to achieve deeper
religious ecstasies.
Wisp
The eerie aberrations called will-o’-wisps (Bestiary 333) come in many types.
Flickerwisp
The dancing, twisting ﬂickerwisp is a less powerful but no less malevolent
type of will-o’-wisp. Like their more dangerous kin, ﬂickerwisps prefer to
haunt lonely swamps or stretches of lonely rivers or creeks, particularly
near the shorelines where they can pass themselves off as a small gathering
of ﬁreﬂies. A ﬂickerwisp’s body is a 3-foot-long length of hair-like ﬁbers
that ﬂash and pulse with ribbons and points of eerie yellow light.
While a ﬂickerwisp can taste fear, and ﬁnds the ﬂavor delectable, it does
not feed on this emotion. Instead, ﬂickerwisps subsist on confusion and
doubt. The sense of unease a traveler exudes when they become lost in
the woods is ﬂickerwisps’ favorite repast. They can sip from this sense
of disorientation without betraying their presence or harming their prey.
Eventually, the ﬂickerwisps grow too hungry and are compelled to ﬂit
closer, confuse their prey, and glut on the raw emotions. The most skilled
of these tormentors can keep a chosen meal alive for days, sipping from
confusion in small doses.
FLICKERWISP
CREATURE 2
UNCOMMON
CE
SMALL
ABERRATION
AIR
Perception +9; darkvision
Languages Aklo, Common
Skills Acrobatics +8, Deception +7, Intimidation +5, Stealth +8
Str –5, Dex +4, Con +0, Int +0, Wis +3, Cha +1
AC 20; Fort +6, Ref +10, Will +7
HP 18; Immunities magic
Glow (aura, light) 5 feet. A ﬂickerwisp is itself naturally
invisible, but glows with pale yellow light, casting bright
light in the aura and making it visible.
Innocuous A ﬂickerwisp’s appearance registers
strangely in the minds of creatures who are confused.
A creature with the confused condition never targets
a ﬂickerwisp with attacks unless the creature has
been damaged by the ﬂickerwisp’s shock ability
within the last 24 hours.
Magic Immunity A ﬂickerwisp is immune to all spells except
faerie ﬁre, gust of wind, magic missile, and maze.
Speed ﬂy 25 feet
Melee Ȱɵ shock +11 (magical), Damage 1d8+2 electricity
Consume Confusion Ȱɵ (concentrate) Frequency once per round;
Requirement A creature within 15 feet of the ﬂickerwisp is confused;
Eﬀect The ﬂickerwisp feeds on the creature’s confusion, even as its
ﬂashing body and disjointed gyrations cause existing confusion
eﬀects to persist. It regains 1d4 Hit Points, and if the creature’s
confused condition has a limited duration, it lasts 1 additional round.
Flicker ʚʖ (emotion, enchantment, mental, visual) The ﬂickerwisp churns and
ﬂits in the air around an adjacent creature’s head, and its length ﬂashes and
sparkles in a bewildering array of distracting pulsations. The creature must
succeed at a DC 18 Will save or become confused for 1 round (2 rounds on a
critical failure). On a critical success, the creature is temporarily immune
to Flicker for 24 hours.
i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> S
20 2024
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Sep 20, 2024
24868708
4425260
