i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> S
20 2024
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Sep 20, 2024
24868488
4425040
30
A11. GAUNTLIGHT BASE
MODERATE 1
The heroes ﬁnd the southern door to this room stuck,
but a character can attempt a DC 18 Athletics check to
Force it Open. Once opened, it falls to sodden pieces.
The western door has a 1-foot-square window set with
iron bars, and it opens normally.
The smooth walls of this circular room are painted a light
gray with no indication of seams between blocks of stone.
A set of iron stairs winds upward along the curved walls
before terminating at a trap door in the ceiling nearly a
hundred feet above. A red bloodstain glistens on the ﬂoor
at the room’s center, as though a human-sized creature
bled to death on the ﬂoor very recently, despite there being
no body in sight.
The Roseguard ﬁnally defeated Belcorra in this room
nearly ﬁve centuries ago. As she died, Belcorra’s spirit
was drawn down into the depths of the Abomination
Vaults through Gauntlight, but the bloodstain she left
on the ﬂoor remains as fresh as the day she died.
During daylight hours, the fresh blood ripples
occasionally; its slick, red surface appears like the
top of a deep pool, but it’s harmless despite this eerie
movement. At night, the bloodstain acts as the hazard
described below.
The iron stairs creak and sway alarmingly but are
quite sound. As part of Gauntlight’s structure, the
stairs can’t take damage as long as Belcorra’s ghost
remains active. The stairs wind up 90 feet to a locked
bronze trap door leading to the cupola in area A25. A
hero can Pick the Lock and open the trap door with
four successful DC 25 Thievery check or can use the
key hidden in area A13.
Hazard: This haunt can activate only at night. A
hero who has seen a depiction of Belcorra elsewhere
in the Abomination Vaults can recognize the haunt’s
appearance; otherwise, a successful DC 20 Society
check conﬁrms her identity.
BLOOD OF BELCORRA
HAZARD 3
COMPLEX
HAUNT
Stealth +13 (expert)
Description A bloody image of Belcorra arises, emits
a soul‑draining light, then inhales blood from living
creatures in the room.
Disable DC 22 Thievery (trained) to wipe away enough of the
bloodstain to disrupt the haunt’s necromantic energies, or
DC 20 Religion (trained) to exorcise the haunt
AC 19; Fort +6, Ref +9, Will +12
HP 50; Immunities critical hits, object immunities, precision
damage; Weaknesses positive 5; Resistances physical 5
(except ghost touch)
Gauntlight Beam Ǻȓ (light, necromancy) Trigger A living
creature ends its turn in area A11 at night; Eﬀect A
ghastly image of Belcorra, seemingly composed of fresh
blood, rises from the bloodstain on the ﬂoor and rotates
in place like a lighthouse. Beams of cold blue light shine
from Belcorra’s eyes and open mouth, causing blisters
and decay to spread across ﬂesh. Living creatures within
a 30-foot burst from the center of area A11 must attempt
a DC 20 Fortitude save. The haunt then rolls initiative.
Critical Success The creature is unaﬀected.
Success The creature takes 1d8 negative damage.
Failure The creature takes 1d8+6 negative damage and
is dazzled for 1 round.
Critical Failure The creature takes 2d8+6 negative
damage and is blinded for 1 round then dazzled for
1 round.
Routine (1 action) The bloody image opens its mouth and
appears to inhale, drawing blood from the body of one
creature in its line of sight within 90 feet from the center
of area A11. The creature targeted must attempt a DC 20
Fortitude save.
Critical Success The creature is unaﬀected.
Success The creature takes 1d10 persistent bleed damage.
Failure The creature takes 1d10+6 persistent bleed damage.
Critical Failure The creature takes 2d10+6 persistent
bleed damage and is enfeebled 2 as long as it’s bleeding.
Reset If the haunt is disabled or destroyed through damage,
the bloody phantom of Belcorra sprays upward in a
spiral, dousing the trap door leading to area A25 before
draining upward through the keyhole, which reduces the
Thievery DC to Pick the Lock to 20. At the next sunrise,
the blood drains back down to this room and the haunt
resets. The haunt is destroyed permanently once Lasda
Venkervale is rescued from area D9.
A12. BELCORRA’S OFFICE
The ceiling has collapsed in the southwest corner of this
room. The walls bear several shelves, but the books and
papers once kept here have rotted to ruin long ago due to
exposure to the elements, as have the wooden desk and
chair in an alcove to the northeast.
A hero Searching this room who succeeds at a
DC 20 Perception check locates the secret door in
the east wall, where a rotating shelf functions as the
door’s handle. Beyond, a ﬂight of stairs leads down
to area B6.
Treasure: A hero Searching the desk automatically
notes a hidden drawer that has fallen partially open,
revealing a few still-potent alchemical elixirs Belcorra
stashed here: a lesser comprehension elixir, a minor
elixir of life, and a lesser skeptic’s elixir (page 214).
i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> S
20 2024
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Sep 20, 2024
24868488
4425040
