i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> S
20 2024
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Sep 20, 2024
24868649
4425201
191
Campaign
Overview
Otari
Chapter 1:
A Light
in the Fog
Chapter 2:
The Forgotten
Dungeon
Chapter 3:
Cult of the
Canker
Chapter 4:
Long Dream
the Dead
Chapter 5:
Into the Training
Grounds
Chapter 6:
Experiments
in Flesh
Chapter 7:
Soul Keepers
Chapter 8:
Decaying
Gardens
Chapter 9:
On the Hunt
Chapter 10:
To Draw the
Baleful Glare
Nhimbaloth
Adventure
Toolbox
Abomination
Vaults
Belcorra hoarded dozens of weapons for her
campaign in this room, intending to arm the humanoid
warriors who fought alongside the aberrant monsters
in her attack. While most of the weapons are merely
well-made, a number of them are genuinely superior.
Treasure: Amid the weapons are a standard-grade
adamantine warhammer and a +2 striking battle axe.
A fallen armor stand is tangled up with the +2 resilient
chain shirt that was once displayed on it.
I58. VAULT OF SECRETS
The shelves of this room contain several old books and
various odds and ends. In the center of the room is a dusty
mechanism of copper and silver. It’s missing its lenses
but otherwise looks like the framework of a lantern that
belongs in the top of a lighthouse. The dust in this room
has been recently disturbed.
This is Belcorra’s most protected vault, holding her
treasures and secrets of her past. The books that have
been most recently shelved here—as evidenced by
the trails in the dust—are research journals Belcorra
penned when she was alive. They’re centuries old,
but careful magical preservation has kept them from
falling apart. These journals describe four fulcrum
lenses (in crimson, ebon, emerald, and ochre) that
focus Nhimbaloth’s soul-extinguishing gaze across
space and time.
Belcorra’s journal details how she built Gauntlight
and created a special framework called the Fulcrum
Lattice to ﬁt the four lenses and harness their power. A
diagram of the Fulcrum Lattice makes it clear that the
device is the very one sitting here. Belcorra expresses
some trepidation at using the fulcrum lenses; they each
contain a sliver of Nhimbaloth’s essence, and bringing
them in close proximity can be dangerous. More
speciﬁcally, the lenses impart Nhimbaloth’s essence
into those who use or are touched by them. Having
all four essences imbued at once is sure to bring
Nhimbaloth’s dreadful scrutiny. Belcorra had her
talented apprentice, Volluk Azrinae, fashion mundane
lenses that would allow Gauntlight to function at a
diminished capacity until the Fulcrum Lattice and
the fulcrum lenses could be installed, on the eve of
Belcorra’s assault on Absalom. The Fulcrum Lattice
allows all four of the large, heavy lenses to be carried
with ease.
Belcorra’s journals explain that she used only the
Ebon Fulcrum Lens in the Empty Vault at Gauntlight’s
base, deeming the essence within one fulcrum lens a
minimal risk. She gave the other lenses to trusted groups
in the lower vaults: the emerald lens to the urdefhans,
the ochre lens to the drow, and the crimson lens hidden
where her undead gnome minions could protect it.
She trusts that the groups won’t work together, much
less learn that bringing the lenses together to imbue a
single creature with all four splinters of Nhimbaloth’s
essence would impart total annihilation.
Other Books: The other books are aging tomes full
of occult knowledge; they’ve been in the Haruvex
family for generations. They hold a wealth of occult
lore about ghosts, Nhimbaloth, and the Haruvexes. A
hero who peruses these tomes for at least an hour gains
a +2 item bonus on checks to Recall Knowledge on
these subjects when using the Investigate exploration
activity here.
Treasure: Belcorra keeps many valuables here,
including a skull-shaped key worth 30 gp that unlocks
the doors to the Gate of Nhimbaloth (area I60) and
two signet rings that each bear the symbol of a tentacle
wrapped around a skull with a moss-ﬁlled mouth. One
is a ring of lies, and the other functions as a greater
pendant of the occult. The Fulcrum Lattice is also
here, and it’s surprisingly lightweight for its size. If
the heroes have discovered any fulcrum lenses so far,
they ﬁt neatly into the lattice, and the lattice grows no
heavier for their weight.
XP Award: Award the heroes 80 XP for uncovering
the lore of the fulcrum lenses and learning how to
destroy Belcorra.
I59. LEVEL 9 PORTAL CHAMBER
Spiraling runes ﬁlled with silver cover this chamber’s curved
walls. The same silvery metal covers the ﬂoor and ceiling.
This room contains another inactive teleportation
circle that the heroes might connect to others in the
Abomination Vaults with the awaken portal ritual.
XP Award: Award the heroes 30 XP for using the
awaken portal ritual to reactivate the teleportation
circle here.
I60. EBON DOORS
These massive double doors are made of black and green
stone. An oxidized bronze lock has a keyhole but no handles.
This door leads to a structure called the Gate of
Nhimbaloth, an ancient temple made of black stone
streaked with a greenish, nauseating hue. Belcorra
didn’t build this place; she found it and incorporated
it into her ever-expanding dungeon. Whether the
Gate of Nhimbaloth always existed underground or
was once cast down from the surface is a mystery,
i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> S
20 2024
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Sep 20, 2024
24868649
4425201
