i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> S
20 2024
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Sep 20, 2024
24868686
4425238
228
ELDRITCH RESEARCHER
An eager student of occult lore, you enjoy reading rare
or forgotten tomes with ancient rituals and hidden
secrets. You connect disparate facts to unlock deeper
mysteries and uncover the truths of the universe, and
you zealously hoard the knowledge your painstaking
research produces. Aberrations fascinate you for
many reasons, not the least of which is because their
anatomy is wholly alien and yet, to the insightful,
eminently sensible.
You’ve been particularly enlightened by the
accumulated lore in Thresholds of Truth, and you know
Zarmavdian was a kindred soul in occult research.
With this book in hand, you feel like you stand at the
doorway to unprecedented occult discoveries.
You scoff at those fools who claim you meddle
in things mortals aren’t meant to know—for isn’t it
the duty of the enlightened to gather the universe’s
deepest truths?
ELDRITCH RESEARCHER DEDICATION
FEAT 2
UNCOMMON
ARCHETYPE
DEDICATION
Prerequisites Trained in Arcana and Occultism
You gain the ability to cast a single arcane or occult cantrip
of your choice (which is heightened to a spell level equal
to half your level rounded up). If you weren’t already, you
become trained in that tradition’s spell DCs and spell attack
rolls with Intelligence as your spellcasting ability.
Regardless of whether you choose an arcane or occult
cantrip, you also become an expert in your choice of either
Arcana or Occultism. You also gain a +1 circumstance
bonus to checks you attempt with the chosen skill when
Investigating or Identifying Magic.
Special You can’t select another dedication feat
until you’ve gained two other feats from the Eldritch
Researcher archetype.
SEEKER OF TRUTHS
FEAT 4
ARCHETYPE
Prerequisites Eldritch Researcher Dedication
Your devotion to discovering and hoarding abstruse truths
borders on the fanatical, and you can bring this devotion
to bear. You gain the cleric’s Domain Initiate feat but must
select knowledge, secrecy, or truth as your domain. You
cast that domain’s domain spell as a focus spell of the
same tradition as your cantrip from Eldritch Researcher
Dedication, and you Refocus by contemplating abstruse
mysteries rather than praying to a god. When an ability
would manifest a divine symbol—such as the word of truth
focus spell—it instead manifests as a strange shape unique
to you that seems to defy geometry.
Special You can take this feat up to three times, selecting
a diﬀerent domain each time.
STRANGE SCRIPT
FEAT 4
ARCHETYPE
DIVINATION
Prerequisites Eldritch Researcher Dedication
You have such familiarity with obscure texts that you can
compel them to reveal their secrets. Once per day, you can
touch a single text (such as a tome, a wall of hieroglyphics,
or something similar) and understand its meaning for
1 hour. If the text is in multiple languages, you gain the
ability to understand them all for only the purposes of
reading the text. If the text is in a code or cypher, you
don’t automatically understand the text, but you gain a +2
circumstance bonus to checks to decipher it.
SCHOLARLY DEFENSE
FEAT 6
ARCHETYPE
Prerequisites Eldritch Researcher Dedication
Your knowledge of strange creatures and their bizarre
anatomy allows you to anticipate their physical attacks and
reduce the damage you take from them. You gain resistance
to physical damage from melee attacks made by aberrations
and oozes. This resistance is equal to one-third your level.
ABLE RITUALIST
FEAT 8
ARCHETYPE
Prerequisites Eldritch Researcher Dedication
Your readings on rituals make you a skilled participant. You
gain a +2 circumstance bonus to primary and secondary
checks you attempt as part of casting a ritual.
LOREFINDER
FEAT 8
ARCHETYPE
Prerequisites Eldritch Researcher Dedication
You know that fate sometimes conspires to keep dangerous
knowledge or items from the eyes of those most able to
understand them. You deny fate the ability to conceal
truths from you. You can cast locate as an innate occult
spell once per day. When you reach 14th level, this spell is
heightened to 5th level.
KNOW IT ALL
FEAT 10
ARCHETYPE
Prerequisites Eldritch Researcher Dedication
Your knowledge of abstruse topics is unparalleled. When
you succeed at a check to Recall Knowledge, you gain
additional information or context. When you critically
succeed at a Knowledge check, at the GM’s discretion you
might gain even more additional information or context
than normal.
ADVANCED SEEKER OF TRUTHS
FEAT 12
ARCHETYPE
Prerequisites Eldritch Researcher Dedication, Seeker of
Truths
i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> S
20 2024
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Sep 20, 2024
24868686
4425238
