i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> S
20 2024
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Sep 20, 2024
24868536
4425088
78
encrusted with damp, pale fungus. Two stone bridges arch
from the pavilion—one connecting it to a door set in the
northern wall and another to a door to the east. A faintly
ﬂickering campﬁre burns in the middle of the pavilion, its
smoke curling to the ceiling.
The fungus growing here might look ominous, but
it’s harmless. The lake has steep banks that drop away
into a nearly uniform depth of 15 feet.
Belcorra built this pavilion as a place to meditate.
The denizens of the Abomination Vaults don’t visit
here, as the lingering presence of Otari’s ghost in
area D18 subconsciously inﬂuences them to stay
away. Living creatures (such as the pavilion’s current
inhabitants) don’t feel these inﬂuences.
Creatures: A grizzled, feral-looking man lives in
the pavilion. He’s Jaul Mezmin, a violent criminal
and murderous werewolf wanted in the town of
Otari for the slaying of several locals 30 years ago.
Jaul’s last victim was a woman named Ayla Lathenar,
wife of Keeleno Lathenar, the owner of the Otari
Market. Jaul hid in plain sight as one of the druids
of Stone Ring Pond while he committed his murders,
but when he was found out, he escaped capture
by leaping from the Otari cliffs into the sea. The
tides pulled him into sea caves, leaving him nearly
drowned, but over the following weeks, he recovered
and found his way here.
Jaul’s been living here ever since. His skin is pasty
and pale, and he reeks of mushrooms and sour
sweat. Cave crickets make up the bulk of his diet.
His only companions over the years have been a
series of loyal wolves; when one perishes, Jaul simply
makes his way out through the caves to bond with
another. At ﬁrst, he made plans to return to Otari, but
after living in this cave for so many years, Jaul knows
no other life.
The heroes disrupt that life, though. When Jaul
notices them, he staggers up to the edge of his
pavilion and howls and barks wildly to warn
them away. The wolf at his side accompanies
his howls with its own. A hero who succeeds
at a DC 27 Society check to Recall
Knowledge realizes this man is the
killer who disappeared from Otari a
generation ago. At your discretion,
a hero familiar with Jaul’s legacy
treats the result of this check as one
degree of success greater than the
rolled result.
If the heroes attack Jaul or attempt
to enter his pavilion, he assumes his
hybrid form and attacks. If the heroes
hang back, he continues to bark and
howl until someone can calm him down.
As soon as the heroes successfully use any
skill with the linguistic trait on Jaul (such as to
create a convincing Lie, use Diplomacy to Make
an Impression, or try to Coerce him), he stops
howling and blinks several times as he remembers
that he can talk as well. A few moments later, he
calls out in a halting voice, warning the heroes that
this is his territory and they aren’t welcome. His initial
attitude is hostile, and if the heroes try to talk to him
 Jaul Mezmin
i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> S
20 2024
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Sep 20, 2024
24868536
4425088
