i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> S
20 2024
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Sep 20, 2024
24868659
4425211
201
Campaign
Overview
Otari
Chapter 1:
A Light
in the Fog
Chapter 2:
The Forgotten
Dungeon
Chapter 3:
Cult of the
Canker
Chapter 4:
Long Dream
the Dead
Chapter 5:
Into the Training
Grounds
Chapter 6:
Experiments
in Flesh
Chapter 7:
Soul Keepers
Chapter 8:
Decaying
Gardens
Chapter 9:
On the Hunt
Chapter 10:
To Draw the
Baleful Glare
Nhimbaloth
Adventure
Toolbox
Abomination
Vaults
J14. THIRD CHALLENGE
This large room has double doors of black stone to the
north and an enormous slab of rough-hewn rock blocking
passage to the south. Two metal tubes jut into this room
from the east wall. Both of their mechanical irises are open.
The slab of rock blocking the passage south is one
of two slabs that function as enormous doors. There’s
a gap of only a few inches between them. The doors
are particularly sturdy, and the only way for anyone
other than Lady’s Whisper to open them is to smash
them down (Hardness 20, 80 Hit Points each).
Passing the Challenge of Despair: Lady’s Whisper
meets the heroes who enter from area J13 here. A hero
who succeeds at a DC 22 Perception check to Sense
Motive realizes that Lady’s Whisper is angry that the
heroes passed. On a critical success, the hero realizes
that Lady’s Whisper plans to betray them if they keep
passing Nhimbaloth’s tests.
Lady’s Whisper points to the open pipes. When the
heroes exit through the pipes, it closes the iris portals
after them and then raises the stone slabs enough to
enter area C18, where it again waits for the heroes.
J15. DEADLY SWAMP
MODERATE 10
The pipes leading to this chamber end with a drop (25
feet from area J1, 20 feet from area J9, and 15 feet
from area J14). In all cases, the drop is into reeking
swamp muck, so falling creatures take no damage but
draw the attention of this room’s inhabitants.
This massive cavern is a thick swamp, moist and stinking.
Seven rusted metal boxes are just visible within the dense
reeds of the swamp. The south end of the cavern is a
rounded metal dam that’s slid upward so only a constant
trickle of water dribbles from its top, near the ceiling.
Ancient gears on either side of the dam appear to lower
it, though streaks of rust show they haven’t moved in
quite some time. At the lower north end of the cavern, the
swamp water drains into a murky, ﬂooded room.
This room’s environment echoes the poisonous
terrain of Nhimbaloth’s dead world, Voidbracken. The
Challenge of the Swamp is simple: survive, ﬁnd the
way to open the dam, and enter area J17.
This area is difﬁcult terrain, as the water isn’t deep,
but the ground beneath it is sucking and treacherous.
Further, the air in the swamp is toxic. Any creature
starting its turn in the swamp must succeed at a DC
27 Fortitude saving throw or become sickened 2
(sickened 4 on a critical failure) and can’t reduce its
sickened condition while in the swamp. The creature
is then temporarily immune for 10 minutes, whether
or not it succeeded at the save. This is a poison effect.
Heroes Searching this area spot three rusted
metal pipes running just beneath the swamp water
and weeds. These connect to the rusty metal boxes
(marked on the map) and are part of the control
system to lower the dam. Heroes who succeed at a DC
25 Crafting, Engineering Lore, or Thievery check to
Recall Knowledge realize that the pipes are important
to controlling the dam; on a critical success, the hero
also realizes that they connect to controls further
north (in area J16).
Rusting Boxes: Each box has a single valve turned
sideways, pointing east to west. This is the “off”
position; turning it to point north to south (the way the
pipes run beneath them) puts it in the “on” position.
All seven boxes must be turned to the “on” position
before the control wheels in area J16 can turn. If your
players like puzzles, you can have each valve that’s
turned (in either direction) automatically turn all other
valves along its pipe and in its row as well; the players
then need to puzzle out how to turn them all “on.”
Creatures: Before the heroes can do much, they
must contend with a trio of chuuls imbued with
Voidbracken’s vile energy. The chuuls ﬁght until slain.
DESTROYING BELCORRA
Belcorra only stops rejuvenating once she completes
her goal of inﬂicting murderous revenge upon
Absalom—but there’s another way to end her villainy
for good. Nhimbaloth, the devourer of spirits, can
utterly annihilate the ghost so she troubles the
world no longer. Drawing the reclusive and inhuman
Nhimbaloth’s attention isn’t easy, but Belcorra laid the
groundwork for this by relying so heavily upon the
Ebon Fulcrum Lens. Nhimbaloth is already inclined
to turn her spirit-consuming attention to Belcorra
because Belcorra has made frequent use of the
glimmers of Nhimbaloth’s essence within the item.
The heroes must strengthen this contact by imbuing
Belcorra with the splinters of Nhimbaloth’s essence in
the Crimson Fulcrum Lens, the Emerald Fulcrum Lens,
and the Ochre Fulcrum Lens (it’s easier to do so via the
Fulcrum Lattice, but that item isn’t strictly required).
Each splinter gives Belcorra a bit more power, but all
three together (building upon her past use of the Ebon
Fulcrum Lens) draw Nhimbaloth’s dread gaze to her
ghostly devotee.
i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> S
20 2024
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Sep 20, 2024
24868659
4425211
