i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> S
20 2024
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Sep 20, 2024
24868556
4425108
98
key to putting the spirits permanently to rest. Anyone
who responds to the poltergeists, even during combat,
might get them to expand upon their worries with
statements like “We have no way out of the arena!”
or “There’s no path to escape!” If the heroes establish
a clear exit path of open doors that lead to the surface
and then describe this path to the poltergeists, the
spirits immediately cease their attacks, concentrate
on the avenue of escape the heroes describe, and
vanish for good.
Treasure: Hidden among the debris is a dented,
lead-lined steel box. A character must succeed at a DC
20 Thievery check to disable the jammed mechanism
that keeps it shut. No amount of force can get the box
open; the poltergeists have been hurling it about for
centuries already. It holds a type I ring of wizardry
with the symbol of Nhimbaloth on it.
E10. GRAND CONCOURSE
MODERATE 5
This stately hallway stretches from a single door to the
north to a wide exit to the south. Frescoes depicting
powerful creatures in battle with each other adorn the
walls. Pinpoints of light glimmer in the vaulted ceiling,
illuminating the hallway with a pale radiance. Balconies run
the length of the hallway, twenty feet above the ﬂoor, their
low railings rusty and twisted in places. A stone bridge
connects the balconies across the hallways to each other,
providing access to the tunnels out of the hallway to the
east and west from the balcony. Several badly damaged
statues decorate the south end of the hall.
The vaulted ceiling reaches 20 feet over the
balconies and 40 feet over the ground level. The
pinpoints of light are irregularly spaced and at ﬁrst
appear to replicate stars in the night sky. A hero
trained in Nature realizes that the lights are unlike the
night sky from anywhere on the surface of Golarion
and instead represent what the night sky looks like
on some incredibly distant world.
Characters must succeed at a DC 20 Athletics check
to Climb up onto (or down from) the footbridge.
Most of the statues at the south end of the hall
resemble exceptionally lifelike ﬂeshwarped creatures,
such as grothluts, driders, and mulventoks (page 237).
All have been toppled, and most have been partially
eaten. Two statues remain in reasonable condition, as
described in Restoring the Statues below.
Creatures: A mated pair of basilisks has a nest at
the south end of this hall. The seugathis occasionally
send a ﬂeshwarped creature to clear them out, or a
creature wandering through the area crosses their
path. All have thus far fallen to the basilisks’ petrifying
gaze. When the heroes arrive, the basilisks lurk amid
the statutes of their victims. They viciously guard their
territory but don’t pursue foes who ﬂee.
BASILISKS (2)
CREATURE 5
Pathﬁnder Bestiary 38
Initiative Perception +11
Restoring the Statues: All but two of the statues are
too damaged to be restored, whether by basilisk blood
or other means. One appears to be a pale, vampire‑like
humanoid known as an urdefhan (Pathﬁnder Bestiary
2 272), but the other looks like a far brawnier version
of one. The larger creature is a mulventok (page 237),
a type of ﬂeshwarp created from an urdefhan; it has
lost its connection to its inherent purpose while
petriﬁed and, if restored, attacks in a frenzy until slain.
If the heroes restore the urdefhan, he shouts, “War
Chieftain Khurfel! Belcorra has need of the eye!” in
Undercommon, screams in pain from internal injuries,
and dies.
Treasure: The equipment here is too damaged to be
useful, save for the urdefhan’s +1 striking composite
shortbow and the mulventok’s +1 tamchal chakram.
The heroes can recover these weapons if they restore
those statues.
XP Award: If the heroes restore the mulventok and
defeat it, award them 80 XP for the combat encounter.
E11. LOCKED SUPPLY ROOM
Both doors leading into this room are locked. A hero
without the key (Jafaki carries one; the other is in the
debris in area E3) can Force Open each door with a
successful DC 25 Athletics check or Pick the Lock with
four successful DC 25 Thievery checks.
This room’s shelves are well-stocked with jars of preserved
organs, crates ﬁlled with bones wrapped in rags, and
surgical tools. Two armor stands ﬂank a weapon rack to
the south, but they bear only a pair of gnarled sticks in
leather sheaths.
Belcorra’s quartermaster once stored valuable
supplies here—usually armor and weapons. All were
removed in the chaos following Belcorra’s death, and
this room sat empty for a long time. Jafaki recently
discovered a key and decided to repurpose this room
to store spare parts for his experiments, as well as
magical equipment he doesn’t need. He visits the room
only every few months, as needed.
Treasure: The shelves here contain a moderate
bestial mutagen, a moderate juggernaut mutagen,
and a moderate quicksilver mutagen. The two wands
i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> S
20 2024
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Sep 20, 2024
24868556
4425108
