i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> S
20 2024
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Sep 20, 2024
24868632
4425184
174
Poison Weapon Ȱɵ (manipulate) Requirements Quara is
holding a piercing or slashing weapon and has a free
hand; Eﬀect Quara applies poison to the weapon.
Reloading Trick Ȱɵ Requirements Quara is holding an
unloaded repeating hand crossbow; Eﬀect Quara
Interacts to reload the repeating hand crossbow and
Strikes with it.
Shootist’s Draw Ȱɵ Frequency once per round; Eﬀect Quara
Interacts to draw a loaded repeating hand crossbow and
Strikes with it, or Strikes with a loaded repeating hand
crossbow she’s holding and then Interacts to stow it.
Skirmishing Dash ʚʖ Quara Strides or Steps, then Strikes.
This Strike deals an additional 3d6 damage.
Treasure: A repeating crossbow magazine (page
226) and a superb repair kit are on the worktable.
BEFRIENDING THE DROW
If the heroes dealt peacefully with the drow and
earned an audience with Quara, wary drow wardens
escort them here and ask them to wait. Various staff
bring in chairs from the common area (area I15) and
food and fungus wine from the kitchen (area I16).
The wardens are curious and talkative, as they have
little experience with surface-dwellers, but they avoid
conversation that sounds like an interrogation—
that’s Quara’s prerogative. If the heroes are reticent
or rude, the drow simply wait in silence. If the heroes
unwisely attack, the wardens call for backup.
Before long, Quara arrives to greet the heroes,
radiating calm command and curiosity. She’s joined by
the stern-looking Salaisa Malthulas, commander of the
outpost’s wardens, and the strange twin drow cavern
seers, Bhazrade and Klathor, who remain quietly at a
distance. Quara does the talking.
“You have the look of surface dwellers. I’ve never met any
of your kind, but I’ve seen artwork. Strange, you are not
nearly as ugly as our art makes you out to be. I am Quara
Orshendiel, leader of this outpost. Let’s ﬁgure out whether
or not we can help one another.”
If the heroes rescued Falxi, Quara adds her thanks
for rescuing her cousin from “one of the scrapes he
keeps getting himself into.”
Quara is sincere in her words and her goals. The
seers foretold that surface dwellers would come as
potential allies, and Quara wants to believe it.
Quara invites the heroes to tell their story. She
sympathizes with hardships, laughs at humorous
parts, and asks questions when she doesn’t understand
something. If the heroes mention the fulcrum lenses
or show her one, she takes an obvious interest. Quara
overlooks petty slights or rudeness, but she chastises
any overt aggression calmly—once. Her patience isn’t
inﬁnite, and overly obnoxious heroes are asked to
leave Yldaris and not return.
At the end of the conversation, Quara says, “You’ve
given me some things to think about. Thank you.” She
then invites the heroes to stay in the overﬂow lodging
(area I13) until she makes up her mind. Quara spends
a few hours thinking, then gambles on an alliance.
She calls the heroes back into this room, either a
few hours later or the next time they return to Yldaris.
Bhazrade and Klathor are, as before, lurking at the
edges of the room. Quara explains the following.
“I believe you’ve been truthful with me, so I’m going to be
truthful with you. Yldaris only exists at Belcorra’s pleasure.
It was here when she ﬁrst created her vast dungeons; at the
time, my grandfather was its leader. Belcorra made allies of
several groups, including drow, urdefhans to the west, and
the deep gnomes above, who have embraced undeath. To
each, she gave a large magical lens with strange powers.
For safekeeping, I believe. Ours was the Ochre Fulcrum
Lens, and it could manipulate emotions.
“But there was more to the lens. My grandfather told
my father, Larathols, who became Yldaris’s leader after
him. But my father never told me.” Quara sighs. “I was
never meant to lead. My older sister was to succeed my
father. They both embarked on a secret expedition a few
years ago. On an island in the great lake, the urdefhan
warlord Khurfel caught and killed them. Their expedition
had something to do with the lens, I believe, and I suspect
my father had it with him. Perhaps he hid it someplace;
perhaps Khurfel took it. I don’t know.
“Belcorra came to me as a ghost shortly afterward.
She insisted I swear Yldaris’s support and aid in a surface
invasion that drives her even in death. For the good of
DROW AID
Gaining the drow’s trust is a tremendous boon to the
heroes’ mission in the Hunting Grounds and beyond.
Not only do they gain a safe place to rest, but they
can also use the outpost’s forge and workspace
(area I17) to repair or even craft items. Furthermore,
traders can sell them any common items up to 7th
level including alchemical items, gear, and weapons
from the Adventure Toolbox. Items they don’t have
on hand require a week or so to fetch from Lozardyn.
Lastly, heroes who learn from Yldaris’s shootists
gain access to the drow shootist archetype (page 227).
i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> S
20 2024
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Sep 20, 2024
24868632
4425184
