i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> S
20 2024
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Sep 20, 2024
24868618
4425170
160
H30. LUMBER SHED
This squat stone building looks like a storage room.
One of three storage rooms in the fungal garden, this
building was used to store wood formed from tough
fungus ﬁbers. Inside, a pile of fungus woods still sits,
along with a bundle of axes and saws used to collect
the fungus and cut the boards into shape.
H31. TOOL SHED
This shed has a small hole where a lock would be, but
traces of rust around the hole are all that remain there.
The tools once stored here have met the same fate
as the lock and are nothing more than a piles of
rust around axe handles, wooden shims, and other
non‑metallic materials. The shriveled corpse of a
fat rust monster lies in the center of the room; the
Children of Belcorra killed it years ago when it got
into their tools, and they never bothered to remove it.
H32. INHABITED SHED
MODERATE 10
This simple storage shed is ﬁlled with small, gnawed bones,
discarded scales, and a pungent reptilian reek.
The ghonhatine ﬂeshwarp lairing here doesn’t know
that there’s a secret door in the west wall. A hero who
Searches the room discovers the false ﬂagstone that
opens it automatically, as the ﬂagstone has shifted
slightly out of place.
Creatures: Some time ago, the ghonhatine escaped
from the Laboratory level far above and ﬂed all the
way here. It has found more than enough to eat in
the surrounding fungus garden, so it never ranges
far, although it prefers living prey. As it has learned
to avoid the nearby lake because of the lurking
froghemoth, it hasn’t had more than a few small bats
or rodents in months, and it’s eager for larger ﬂesh. It
rushes at the heroes who open this door and attacks
with a single‑minded fury until slain.
GHONHATINE
CREATURE 10
Pathﬁnder Bestiary 2 119
Initiative Perception +19
Treasure: The repulsive residue of the ghonhatine’s
meals contain bloodstained armbands of athleticism.
H33. LEVEL 8 PORTAL CHAMBER
The round walls of this chamber are deeply carved with
ﬂowing runes. The runes are ﬁlled with silver and dust.
This is another portal chamber containing an
inactive teleportation circle. The heroes can connect it
to those in other levels of the Abomination Vaults with
the awaken portal ritual.
XP Award: Award the heroes 30 XP for using the
awaken portal ritual to reactivate the teleportation
circle here.
H34. EASTERN WILDS
MODERATE 8
Across the bridge’s span, fungus grows to greater
heights—some reaching nearly to the high ceiling of the
cavern, fifty feet overhead. The remains of old paths
remain here, but most are covered with clumps of
smaller fungus or patches of pale slime. Spores
drift through the air, and huge red blooms
on the fungi shift as though in a wind,
although there’s no wind here. An
enormous iron ladder hangs down into
the deep chasm. Each link of the chains that
hold it up are about as large as a human, but the
rungs are spaced to give even small creatures an
easy climb.
The east side of the fungus garden has gone a long
time without proper cultivation, which has made it
overgrown and dangerous. The paths are somewhat
Dragon’s Blood Puffball
i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> S
20 2024
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Sep 20, 2024
24868618
4425170
