i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> S
20 2024
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Sep 20, 2024
24868558
4425110
100
Watching You” carved into one of its wooden sides.
Anyone examining this carving can attempt a DC 20
Perception check; on a success, they realize that the
words are near a hidden hinge, and the entire case
swings aside as a secret door.
E15. WAITING ROOM
Mounds of white fungus blossom from what was once
padded furniture in this small waiting room.
Tiny fungal spores drift throughout this room. A
hero who succeeds at a DC 22 Nature check to Recall
Knowledge realizes the danger the spores pose and
that limiting time in the room to less than a minute
provides the safest way to prevent exposure.
Hazard: For each minute a creature spends in this
room with any exposed skin, it must attempt a saving
throw to avoid contracting fungal rot.
FUNGAL ROT
DISEASE 6
DISEASE
This fast-acting disease causes tiny spores to take
root under the skin and blossom in the lungs or in the
bloodstream. You become easily winded and incapable of
moving quickly. You can’t reduce your sickened condition
while aﬄicted with fungal rot.
Saving Throw DC 22 Fortitude; Onset 1 hour; Stage  1
sickened 1 (1 day); Stage 2 slowed 1 and sickened 2
(1 day); Stage 3 slowed 2 and sickened 3 (1 day); Stage 4
unconscious (1 day); Stage 5 death
Treasure: In the cushions of the sofa are 13 assorted
silver pieces, minted centuries ago by a long-shuttered
mint that are worth 4 gp each to a collector.
E16. ADMINISTRATOR’S ANTECHAMBER
This sitting room glows from the light of a ﬁre, crackling
pleasantly in a web-choked ﬁreplace on the east wall. A
large divan has been pushed up against the door to the
northwest. Several pitons pounded into the gap between
the stone door and its frame ensure it remains shut.
The magic that sustains this ﬁre has lasted centuries.
Several harmless spiders inhabit the ﬁreplace and have
ﬁlled it with their webs over the years because the light
attracts insects.
Removing the divan from the door is simple enough,
but the heroes must spend 10 minutes with a crowbar
or similar tool to pry the pitons out of the door to open
it. The door’s stone is magically enhanced and difﬁcult
to smash through (Hardness 18, HP 76). Most attempts
to bypass the door using magic fail, due to magical
protections placed upon the room beyond (area E17).
E17. IMPRISONED ADMINISTRATOR
SEVERE 5
This room’s occupant placed magical defenses on the
room to prevent teleportation effects or ethereal travel
from accessing it.
A glowing circle of runes covers the ﬂoor in this chamber.
Parchment covered with cramped writing sits on a desk
situated against the north wall, and the splintered remains
of a bed are piled in a corner.
In the chaos following Belcorra’s fall, someone
locked the arena administrator, Chafkhem, in his
room. As Chafkhem had previously warded his room
against interdimensional travel, he was effectively
imprisoned. Before he succumbed to starvation, the
erudite wizard cobbled together reagents to mummify
himself with parchment paper, hoping to one day
escape his bounds and inﬂict revenge on Jafaki, whom
Chafkhem believed ordered him to be imprisoned in
his room.
In his isolation, Chafkhem has attempted to devise
a means of escape by creating a temporary portal
through the wall. A simple mistake in his assumptions
rendered all his calculations incorrect, and he has failed
to get the spell to work—a point of great frustration
for the vainglorious mummy.
The magic circle at the center of the room assists
Chafkhem with maintaining magical energy. The
circle gives him a +2 status bonus to skill checks when
performing rituals. Additionally, he’s quickened while
within the circle but can use the additional action only
to Sustain a Spell.
Creature: When the heroes unseal his chamber,
Chafkhem holds up his parchment-wrapped arms to
show he means no harm. He’s genuinely thankful for
his release and quite charming by nature. Unfortunately,
he’s as bossy in undeath as he was in life, and he soon
starts demanding, rather than requesting, information
from the heroes about the current status of the seugathis
and the Abomination Vaults. If the heroes don’t indulge
Chafkhem, he decides to kill them and animate them as
undead who don’t talk back nearly as much.
CHAFKHEM
CREATURE 8
UNIQUE
LE
MEDIUM
MUMMY
UNDEAD
Male mummy ritualist 8 (Pathﬁnder Bestiary 240)
Perception +17; darkvision
Languages Aklo, Common, Necril
Skills Acrobatics +16, Arcana +19, Athletics +15, Diplomacy
+16, Intimidation +16, Occultism +17, Religion +15
i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> S
20 2024
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Sep 20, 2024
24868558
4425110
