i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> S
20 2024
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Sep 20, 2024
24868522
4425074
64
more recent attacks, such as the Red Siege, the Siege of
the Ravenous Raja, or the Black Echelon Uprising).
Most of these books focus on the history of
Absalom’s sieges, and while many of them contain
contradictory information, the collection as a whole
makes cross-referencing it to determine likely errors
easier. Anyone perusing these books ﬁnds heavy
annotations in all of them; taken together, they reveal
that a previous researcher was using the books to
catalogue the failures of prior sieges and analyze the
city’s response to various exterior threats, all in the
interest of ensuring the success of a new siege. Books in
this room can be used just like the books in area C11 to
aid in Investigation on the history of sieges of Absalom,
providing a +1 item bonus to relevant skill checks.
Creatures: A wood golem carved to resemble
Belcorra still stands guard in this room. It lumbers to
action as soon as anyone enters the room who doesn’t
also resemble Belcorra. It doesn’t pursue enemies out
of the room but otherwise ﬁghts until destroyed.
WOOD GOLEM
CREATURE 6
Pathﬁnder Bestiary 2 130
Initiative Perception +12
Treasure: A wealth of books of potential interest to
Morlibint can be found here—4 Bulk in all.
C31. UNFINISHED LIBRARY
The walls of this room are only partially completed and
bear the telltale marks of chisels and picks. Discarded
stone-working tools lie against the unﬁnished walls.
Belcorra planned an expansion wing to house
additional tomes that had started to pile up elsewhere
in her library, but the project was never completed
before her death, and the ghouls haven’t yet gathered
the initiative to resume the work.
Treasure: Most of the mining tools remaining here
are mundane, but one of them is a +1 striking pick.
C32. FURNACE ROOM
LOW 3
The air in this room feels blisteringly hot, although the
source of the heat isn’t apparent. Neither the wooden
barrel containing a few iron scoops nor the metal bin with
a hatch-like lid seems to be the source.
This room was used to burn refuse that accumulated
in the dungeon—more often than not, books Belcorra
came into possession of that she found to be useless or
dangerous. Originally, the refuse would be loaded into
the metal bin; once the hatch was closed, powerful ﬁre
magic incinerated the contents, and the ashes were
then scooped out and dumped in the swamp.
Hazard: In the aftermath of Belcorra’s death, a
squabble between two scholars concluded in this
room when they attempted to burn each other alive.
The machine malfunctioned and burned both scholars
to ashes. Today, echoes of their souls haunt the room.
VENGEFUL FURNACE
HAZARD 4
COMPLEX
HAUNT
Stealth +15 (expert)
Description The hatch atop the haunted furnace ﬂips open
and disgorges a pair of shrieking, burning ghosts.
Disable DC 22 Intimidation (trained) to cow one of the
vengeful spirits or DC 25 Religion (trained) to exorcise
the spirit. The haunt remains active until both spirits are
cowed or exorcised, or until the furnace is destroyed.
AC 21; Fort +15, Ref +8
Hardness 13; HP 60 (BT 30); Immunities critical hits,
object immunities, precision damage; Weaknesses cold
8, positive 5
Ghostly Assault Ǻȓ (divine, enchantment, ﬁre, mental)
Trigger A living creature with an Intelligence score of 15
or higher enters the room, or any creature touches the
furnace; Eﬀect Burning ghosts burst from the furnace,
exposing the triggering creature to the haunt’s burn
knowledge eﬀect. The haunt rolls initiative.
Burn Knowledge (divine, enchantment, ﬁre, mental) The
target of the haunt’s initial Ghostly Assault, as well as
any creature later hit by a burning lash Strike, loses
random memories, as if these thoughts were incinerated
like pages in a burning book. The creature must attempt
a DC 23 Will save.
Critical Success The creature is unaﬀected.
Success The creature becomes stupeﬁed 1 for 1 minute
while they forget random memories, as if these
thoughts were incinerated like pages in a burning book.
Failure As success, but the stupeﬁed 1 condition persists
for 24 hours.
Critical Failure As failure, but stupeﬁed 2.
Routine (3 actions) The burning ghosts lash at a random
stupeﬁed creature in the room (or any random creature,
if no creatures in the room are stupeﬁed).
Ranged Ȱɵ burning lash +14 (ﬁre, mental, range 10 feet),
Damage 2d6 ﬁre plus 2d6 mental and burn knowledge
Reset The haunt resets 1 hour after there are no creatures
in the room.
Treasure: The furnace contains a layer of ashes.
Searching through the ashes turns up the only item to
survive its owner’s immolation—a ventriloquist’s ring
carved with strange glyphs.
i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> S
20 2024
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Sep 20, 2024
24868522
4425074
