i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> S
20 2024
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Sep 20, 2024
24868574
4425126
116
F16. TAVERN OFFICE
LOW 6
This messy oﬃce features a battered wooden desk with
paperwork and ink stains scattered over its surface. The
only exit is a door to the south.
This ofﬁce belongs the manager of the Warped
Brew Tavern, an urdefhan named Vischari. The papers
include supply lists, startling recipes for serving
different kinds of fungus, and employee pay rates. The
chaos of the ofﬁce belies Vischari’s orderly mind—she
knows where everything is here.
Creature: Vischari used to make the trip from
the urdefhan stronghold deeper in the Abomination
Vaults to enjoy the atmosphere in the Warped Brew
a few times a year. On one visit, she realized that the
seugathis planned to capture and experiment on her
the next time she visited the establishment. Rather
than leave the tavern she’d come to enjoy, Vischari
elected to make herself indispensable by murdering the
tavern’s current owner and taking over its operation.
She’s proven to be a competent manager, so the
seugathis have kept their threats to operate on her to
a minimum.
Vischari knows that anyone disrupting the Warped
Brew’s operations threatens her livelihood, so she readily
attacks surface dwellers who barge in uninvited. If she
already knows the heroes, such as if they bested the
tavern’s band, she is merely brusque at insisting on her
privacy here, insisting that they leave before she guts
them and serves them in stew.
VISCHARI
CREATURE 7
UNIQUE
NE
MEDIUM
HUMANOID
URDEFHAN
Female urdefhan pugilist (Pathﬁnder Bestiary 2 272)
Perception +15; greater darkvision
Languages Aklo, Daemonic, Undercommon
Skills Acrobatics +15, Athletics +17 (+19 to Grapple or
Shove), Intimidation +15, Medicine +13, Survival +15
Str +6, Dex +4, Con +2, Int +0, Wis +2, Cha +4
AC 25; Fort +15, Ref +17, Will +13
HP 115, negative healing; Immunities death eﬀects, disease,
fear; Weaknesses positive 10
Necrotic Decay (divine, necromancy, negative) When
Vischari dies, her invisible ﬂesh rots away and sublimates
into a foul-smelling gas that ﬁlls a 5-foot emanation
around her body. This gas deals 7d6 negative damage to
creatures in this area as their ﬂesh curdles and rots (DC
24 basic Fortitude save).
Attack of Opportunity Ǻȓ
Speed 25 feet
Melee Ȱɵ ﬁst +18 (deadly d8), Damage 2d8+10 bludgeoning
Melee Ȱɵ jaws +17, Damage 2d6+10 piercing plus wicked bite
Divine Innate Spells DC 22, attack +14; 3rd fear; 2nd
darkness, death knell; 1st feather fall (at will, self only),
ray of enfeeblement
Immobilizing Blow ʚʖ (incapacitation) Vischari makes a
ﬁst Strike that shuts down her target’s motor control.
The target must make a DC 25 Fortitude save. If the
Strike was a critical hit, treat the target’s save result
as one degree worse. The target is then temporarily
immune for 1 hour.
Critical Success The target is unaﬀected.
Success The target is stunned 1.
Failure The target is paralyzed for 1 round.
Critical Failure The target is paralyzed for 1 minute.
At the end of each of its turns, it can attempt a new
Fortitude save to reduce the remaining duration by 1
round or end it entirely on a critical success.
Wicked Bite Ȱɵ Requirements Vischari damaged a
creature with a jaws Strike on her last action; Eﬀect
Vischari maintains contact, turning the creature’s ﬂesh
translucent around the site of the injury. Vischari
chooses one of two options, each of which requires the
target to attempt a DC 25 Fortitude save. If her jaws
Strike was a critical hit, the creature suﬀers both eﬀects,
using the same save result for both.
•	 Drain Blood Vischari drinks some of the creature’s
blood. On a failed save, the creature is drained 1
and Vischari regains 10 HP (on a critical failure, it’s
drained 2 and Vischari regains 20 HP).
•	 Drain Vitality (necromancy) Vischari draws out some
of the creature’s vital essence. The creature becomes
enfeebled 1 for 1 hour on a failed save (or enfeebled 2
for 1 hour on a critical failure).
Treasure: A dented safe under Vischari’s desk is
locked with a simple lock, but Vischari—perhaps
unwisely—keeps the key in the lock so she can access
it easily. The safe holds neat stacks of coins (34 gp,
179 sp, and 57 cp) and an odd key with an elaborate
four-prong design, which is one of the keys that opens
a lock in area F7.
F17. PRIVATE DINING
Placed against the east wall, a disgusting buﬀet table holds
a buﬀet of smelly fried morsels, gloppy dipping sauce, and
spiny mushrooms.
This food is provided for the members of Shadow
Malice. Although not poisonous, this buffet isn’t
likely to appeal to the palates of surface dwellers.
Doors exit to the north and south; the one to the
south has the words “Performers Only” written on it
in Undercommon.
i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> S
20 2024
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Sep 20, 2024
24868574
4425126
