i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> S
20 2024
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Sep 20, 2024
24868676
4425228
218
Infernal Contracts
Some mortals damn themselves through tyranny,
murder, or other soul-staining offenses. Others need
a little assistance surrendering their souls to Hell.
Devils gladly offer enticing temptations to desperate
mortals—but at a high price.
These arrangements are formalized in the traditions
and trappings of binding agreements most familiar to the
mortal’s culture, such as a handshake, a hand-binding
ceremony, or a written agreement signed by both parties.
Devils often include their own diabolical spin on the
traditions by requiring the handshake to be performed
while mingling the blood of both parties, binding hands
with a red-hot chain, or signing a document in blood.
These ﬂourishes are rarely necessary; demanding them
of the mortal is simply a display of power designed to
put the devil at an advantage. Most deals with devils in
the Inner Sea region take the form of written contracts,
which purport to offer full transparency to mortal
signatories, but in actuality incorporate additional
agreements hidden in obfuscated language.
Nearly all infernal contracts have three separate
provisions: an ongoing beneﬁt to the mortal, a
payment the mortal must make to the devil (usually in
the form of a supernatural restriction or prohibition),
and a termination clause that, upon its occurrence,
immediately voids the entire contract and ends all its
effects. Contracts often include hidden conditions that
give the devil additional leverage.
The rules effect of an infernal contract is that of a
magic item with the contract trait. This item has no
physical substance and can’t be dispelled, altered, or
destroyed except by destroying both physical copies
of the contract (a virtually impossible task, as most
devils send their copy to the Fallen Fastness in Dis, an
infernal library all but off-limits to mortals). An infernal
contract is automatically invested and counts toward a
character’s limit of 10 invested items—all such contracts
therefore include, as part of their cost, a fraction of
the bargainer’s ability to use other magic items. Once
invested, infernal contracts aren’t visible—though their
effects can be—but anyone who has one is constantly
aware of its presence. If a creature dies with an infernal
contract invested, its soul is consigned to Hell and it
can’t be restored to life unless its soul is freed.
The following are some examples of contracts a
mortal might obtain; each speciﬁes the type of devil
most likely to offer them and the kinds of checks
readers can use to decipher their terms.
DEVIL’S LUCK
ITEM 3
RARE
CONTRACT
ENCHANTMENT
FORTUNE
INVESTED
MAGICAL
Devil imp; Decipher Writing Arcana, Occultism, Society
You’ve bargained with an imp, one of the least powerful
devils, for a fragment of infernal luck.
Beneﬁt Once per day, you can roll a saving throw twice and
use the higher result.
Payment At the termination of your mortal life, your soul
must serve the imp for 100 years.
Hidden Condition The “termination of mortal life” clause
is carefully worded to hasten your demise. You can’t
use the beneﬁt against a death eﬀect, and if you roll a
failure on a saving throw against a death eﬀect, you get
a critical failure instead.
Termination Clause If you critically fail a saving throw
against a death eﬀect and do not die, the contract
becomes unenforceable on its terms and is voided.
PACT OF BLOOD-TAKING
ITEM 5
RARE
CONTRACT
INVESTED
MAGICAL
NECROMANCY
Devil barbazu; Decipher Writing Society, Warfare Lore
You negotiate for might and viciousness.
i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> S
20 2024
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Sep 20, 2024
24868676
4425228
