i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> S
20 2024
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Sep 20, 2024
24868650
4425202
192
as are the cultists who once inhabited it. In any
case, its entry is now seamless with the stone of
the Abomination Vaults. The Gate of Nhimbaloth
includes not only the rooms beyond it, but most of
the lower level as well.
The door’s ancient lock is incredibly complex. Six
successful DC 40 Thievery checks are required to Pick
the Lock, and the door can’t be Forced Open at all.
The skull‑shaped key located in area I58 opens this
door. When it does, the key’s carving changes to show
moss sprouting from the skull’s mouth.
I61. HALL OF PRIESTS
MODERATE 9
This large chamber is made of the same black stone as
the imposing ebon doors to the north. Eight alcoves, four
on each side, line the east and west walls. Each alcove
contains the remains of jade-colored statues. All of the
ﬁgures have been deﬁled; none have any heads remaining,
most are missing hands, and one is just a pair of bare feet
upon a pedestal. An enormous stone throne carved out
of heavy blocks stands in a domed chamber opposite the
black doors.
Well before Belcorra’s time, this served as a
semipublic area of worship for a cult of Nhimbaloth.
Those seeking vengeance, an enemy’s obliteration, or
assurance that a lost loved one would return as a ghost
left offerings and sacriﬁces around the throne and the
creature sitting on it, who was called Lady’s Whisper—
the creature that sits there still. Aspirants hoped the
shrouded skeleton would rise and lead them through
one of the three doorways to take the tests to become
an initiate in the cult. Lady’s Whisper sometimes
remained still for years, or ushered in new cultists for
days on end. Although even the senior cultists never
understood the connection between Lady’s Whisper
and Nhimbaloth, none questioned the skeleton’s role
as gateway to cult membership.
The cultists did know, however, that only those
Lady’s Whisper ushered into the eastern door would
join the cult. The western doors lead to grim fates
reserved for those unworthy to even be tested for
admittance to the cult.
Creatures: Lady’s Whisper is a unique undead
creature distantly related to the lesser deaths that
serve the Grim Reaper (Pathﬁnder Bestiary 196). For
reasons long lost, the skeletal creature is irrevocably
tied to Nhimbaloth. It knows that the heroes are
here to face Belcorra and are ill-suited to join the
now‑nonexistent cult, but it decides to put them
through the initiation trials anyway in the hopes
of weakening and killing them. Lady’s Whisper
commands the allegiance of the many dread wisps
within the Gate of Nhimbaloth, but there are none
here to defend it when the heroes ﬁrst arrive, so it
deals with the heroes cautiously.
Lady’s Whisper rises and holds forth both hands,
gesturing for peace. It then points to the eastern
door and whispers the names of each
hero, one by one. It steps toward
the eastern door, gesturing for
the heroes to follow.
If the heroes attack, Lady’s
Whisper lashes out with its claws
to teleport heroes away, preferably
into the adjacent chambers with
dangerous wisps and traps. It ﬂees if it
takes more than 50 points of damage but
tries to lure the heroes deeper into the Gate
of Nhimbaloth as it does.
Lady’s Whisper
i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> S
20 2024
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Sep 20, 2024
24868650
4425202
