i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> S
20 2024
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Sep 20, 2024
24868596
4425148
138
Carman (or the gem) in a ﬁrm grip, and both barbazus
disappear. “It was a pleasure doing business with you,”
says Urevian, “I will look you up again, perhaps in
a few years or decades. And if you have died in that
time... well, I can come ﬁnd you anyway. You are so
delightfully useful. I shall be in touch.”
XP Award: Award the heroes 120 XP if they make a
deal with Urevian and get the devil to depart.
G11. NEXUS
LOW 7
This chamber forms a large octagonal pyramid and has four
exits on opposite walls. Bright, blood-red light shines down
from the top of the pyramid in a perfect circle on the ﬂoor.
Hazard: Urevian constructed a magical trap here to
capture invaders and summon reinforcements.
PARALYZING LIGHT TRAP
HAZARD 8
COMPLEX
MAGICAL
TRAP
Stealth DC +18 (expert)
Description When any creature other than a devil enters
the light, the magic interwoven in the light holds the
creature in place and rings an alarm.
Disable DC 26 Thievery (master) to distort or diﬀuse
the light, keeping the light cone intact but preventing
the trap from triggering, or dispel magic (4th level;
counteract DC 26) to dispel the light, leaving the room
in darkness
Stasis Field Ǻȓ (enchantment, incapacitation, mental,
occult) Trigger A non-devil creature moves into the light;
Eﬀect The light expands to ﬁll the room, and each non-
devil creature within the room must attempt a DC 26
Will save. A high-pitched chime sounds in the barracks
(area G15), audible in this room as well. The trap then
rolls initiative.
Critical Success The target is unaﬀected.
Success The target is stunned 2.
Failure The target is paralyzed for 1 round.
Critical Failure The target is stupeﬁed 2 for 1d4 rounds
and paralyzed for 1 round.
Routine (1 action) All stunned and paralyzed creatures in
the room take 1d10 mental damage (DC 26 basic Will
save). Creatures who fail also become paralyzed for 1
round but can use a reaction to mentally ﬁght oﬀ this
stasis; creatures who do so take 5d10 mental damage
but are no longer paralyzed.
Reset The stasis magic in the light builds up over the
course of an hour, after which the trap can trigger again.
Reinforcements: When the alarm goes off in
area G15, half of the enemies in the barracks (one
mulventok and one dreshkan) make their way here
immediately. If they don’t come back in 3 rounds, the
other two ﬂeshwarps in area G15 realize something
must be wrong and come to provide help as well.
G12. ARENA WALK
LOW 7
A long hallway, stretching north to south, ends in a
staircase at the southern end that branches left and right.
The north and east walls each have a door with small,
sliding windows. A raised portcullis at the northeastern
end here has metal points crusted with dried blood.
Not all combatants in Belcorra’s arena participated
willingly. Prisoners intended for the gladiatorial games
were kept here brieﬂy before being sent upstairs to
meet their fates. The sliding windows allow the heroes
to peek into the cells.
The stairs lead up to area F10.
Creatures: Two will-o’-wisps patrol this corridor,
killing whatever unfriendly creatures they ﬁnd. They
spontaneously appeared in the Abomination Vaults
decades ago and drifted to this level. When the devils
assumed they served Belcorra, the wisps simply agreed,
even though they’ve never met her. Urevian assigned
the creatures to keep watch here. They also suggested
subjecting the ﬂeshwarp in area F10 to the slow curse,
as it lets them sup on the creature’s fear as often as
they’d like.
The will-o’-wisps ﬁght intruders tenaciously to
maintain their favored position. If one is destroyed,
the other attempts to ﬂee to area G15 and warn the
creatures there.
WILL-O’-WISPS (2)
CREATURE 6
Pathﬁnder Bestiary 333
Initiative Perception +16
G13. EMPTY CELL
Dust and cobwebs cover this forgotten cell. The heroes
ﬁnd its door unlocked. Since the devils never check it,
this cell makes for a safe, if cramped place to rest.
G14. IMPRISONED BOUNTY HUNTER
Most of this cell has received very little care in the past
several decades, but the manacles on the wall appear
carefully polished.
The devils have recently put this cell back into
service. A tieﬂing bounty hunter named Cynemi
hangs upside down, her ankles bound by the
manacles. She looks clearly weakened from ill
treatment and neglect.
i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> S
20 2024
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Sep 20, 2024
24868596
4425148
