i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> S
20 2024
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Sep 20, 2024
24868666
4425218
208
her nearly skeletal body in a smoky shroud. This
version of her is surely the product of an artist’s
nightmare, yet cults have adopted it as their own.
Nhimbaloth’s realm is a twofold domain. She uses
the banks of the River of Souls as a hunting ground
and a highway to travel from world to world, but
supposedly dwells on a distant, dead planet. The
name of this domain has been lost to time; the
faithful of Nhimbaloth refer to it in whispers only
as Voidbracken. Here, an ancient battle between
Nhimbaloth and another power took place (most
myths suggest her foe was Pharasma) that resulted
in the destruction of the Empty Death’s body. This
conﬂict didn’t result in her death, however, and
her cult fondly views the event as an evolution—
for without a body, she could now come and go
as she pleased along the shores of the River of
Souls. Voidbracken spins still in the Dark Tapestry,
wandering aimlessly through the universe but driven
always by Nhimbaloth’s will, and when it draws near
an inhabited system, the souls of the living are drawn
from their mortal shells in a cataclysm referred to in
rare surviving accounts as the Deadtide. According
to certain passages scribed in ancient texts like
the Necronomicon, many of the Great Old Ones
and Outer Gods must wait for the stars to align
just right to manifest. This is quite literally true in
Nhimbaloth’s case. Eventually, her Deadtides will
claim enough lives so that Nhimbaloth’s death will
die; the accumulated spiritual energy she has digested
will ultimately undo her ancient defeat, allowing her
to once more exist as a physical being.
She will rise from death hungrier than ever.
Dogma and Worshippers
Nhimbaloth’s creed and worship are entirely the
product of her cultists, as the Empty Death has little
interest in providing her worshippers with direct
inspiration or direction. This tradition echoes the
pattern established with all other cults centered on
entities of the Elder Mythos who similarly care not
for their worshippers. Because of this lack of divine
direction, while their worshippers strive to accomplish
speciﬁc goals, they aren’t limited by anathemas.
In Nhimbaloth’s case, her worshippers seek to create
undead—particularly ghosts and other incorporeal
creatures—to provide sustenance for their eldritch icon.
They also feast upon carnivores at their ceremonies, aping
Nhimbaloth’s predation upon soul-eating monsters. Her
faith is all but unknown in urban areas, but in isolated
swamp villages, worship of the Empty Death can suffuse
entire settlements. In such instances, the cult typically
builds the shell of a mainstream church to serve as a
front and satisfy any curious outsiders passing through,
while worshipping their goddess at a hidden location in
the heart of the night.
Lower-level clerics of Nhimbaloth dress in whatever
corpse’s attire is commonly used in their society’s
burial rites, choosing to wear a “ﬁnal suit” or “last
gown” during their rituals in hopes that sweet oblivion
might answer their prayers. Cult leaders, however,
often eschew this tradition, instead wearing dark green
or gray hooded robes adorned with tangled sheets of
clinging moss and skull-shaped masks adorned with
veils of additional moss. The cultists favor ﬂails in
combat; these weapons often have heads shaped into
four-pointed stars with the ﬂail’s chain attached to the
center of the star and handles wrapped in moss and
tanned ﬂesh stripped from the dead.
Humanoids are far from the Empty Death’s only
worshippers. As mentioned, will-o’-wisps and their kin
ﬁnd much to admire in the sinister aura Nhimbaloth’s
presence brings to desolate swamplands, and it
doesn’t take long for them to take up faith in the
Empty Death, almost as if feeding on fear spurred
by her inﬂuence infects the wisps with devotion to
her faith. Marsh giants have also been known to
venerate Nhimbaloth under names like “Bogmother,”
“The Rushlight Woman,” “Swampﬁre Queen,” or
the like, although they pray to her more as a patron
of swampland than anything else. Vampiric mists
commonly appear in her swamplands as well, and
many scholars have nervously wondered about the
implied connection between Nhimbaloth’s mark
and the clusters of seven perfectly spaced punctures
vampiric mists leave in the bodies of those they’ve fed
upon through their misty tendrils.
NHIMBALOTH’S INSPIRATION
H. P. Lovecraft encouraged others to add to the
mythos of eldritch beings he created to populate his
weird ﬁction, and it was in this tradition that I ﬁrst
created Nhimbaloth as an antagonist for my own
stories and roleplaying campaigns. Largely inspired
by the mysterious horror lurking behind nature’s
veil in Algernon Blackwood’s classic short story
“The Willows,” and with some valuable advice on
Outer God naming conventions from the ﬁne folks
at Chaosium, Nhimbaloth has become one of my
proudest additions to the ever-expanding Lovecraft
Mythos. —James Jacobs
i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> S
20 2024
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Sep 20, 2024
24868666
4425218
