i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> S
20 2024
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Sep 20, 2024
24868506
4425058
48
use the prisoner on page 215 of the Gamemastery
Guide.) All three are clad in rags and are suffering from
malnutrition and fear. Each bears a bird tattoo on the
right shoulder that indicates membership in the Osprey
Club (with a successful DC 16 Society check to Recall
Knowledge, a hero identiﬁes the tattoo’s signiﬁcance).
The thieves recount their harrowing time as the
prisoners of the morlocks if asked and are eager to
be led out of the dungeon. They thankfully accept
their gear (from area B23) if offered but really only
want to return to Otari. If the heroes lead them up to
the surface, the thieves can safely return to Otari on
their own; otherwise, chances are good that a dire fate
meets them. On the other hand, Yinyasmera pays well
for their rescue; see the Side Quest in area A17 on page
32 for details.
B25. CLEANING SUPPLIES
Shelves line the walls of this room, each ﬁlled with tools
used for cleaning or repair work. A silver-headed cane lies
amid a tangle of mops, brooms, and buckets.
The devil in area B27 investigates any noise here.
Treasure: None of these tools are particularly
valuable, but even a brief glance is enough to note
that they’re all clean and in good condition. The cane
hides a silver blade; it’s a low-grade silver sword cane
(Advanced Player’s Guide 248). Any attempt to move
it without a successful DC 16 Thievery check causes
the other tools to clatter noisily to the ﬂoor in a heap.
B26. CLOCKWORK STORAGE
A pair of hulking humanoid objects stands quietly in this
chamber, each covered in a thick layer of dust.
These two clockwork assistants once helped
maintain this level, but both are now broken beyond
any hope of repair.
Treasure: With a successful DC 18 Crafting or
Perception check, a hero identiﬁes eight gemstones
worth 5 gp each used as bearings in the clockworks.
B27. ZOZZLARIN’S ROOM
LOW 2
The walls of this room have been painted, crudely and
almost childishly, to depict a horriﬁc Hellscape of burning
mountains, rusting cities, and tormented souls.
Creatures: Belcorra used several bound devils
as minions and guardians, mostly in lower levels
of the Abomination Vaults. The lesser of the two
devils she assigned to the upper levels is a hapless
zebub named Zozzlarin. A chubby, ﬂy-bodied devil,
Zozzlarin is bound to this level as an eternal janitor.
Zozzlarin is contractually required to spend 18 hours
each day in this room, and he has done his best to paint
the walls to remind him of home. For the other 6 hours
each day, he’s compelled to buzz out into the surrounding
complex to clean and dust. Thanks to Belcorra’s cruel
sense of humor, Zozzlarin is required to spend at least 3
of those hours cleaning the dusty walls and ﬂoors of the
dungeon with his tongue, but to the hopeless zebub, this
Zozzlarin
i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> S
20 2024
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Sep 20, 2024
24868506
4425058
