i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> S
20 2024
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Sep 20, 2024
24868626
4425178
168
Belcorra’s Return
When Belcorra arose as a ghost, she visited the Hunting
Grounds ﬁrst. She checked her treasure vault to ensure
its most important contents remained secure and then
sent the vault’s graveknight guardian to retrieve the
valuable books she’d left on an upper level. She next
visited the urdefhans, who still told vague legends of
the quasi-mythical sorcerer. Their new war champion,
Khurfel, carried the Emerald Fulcrum Lens and agreed
to follow their Ghost Queen to raze the surface world.
The urdefhans have since stepped up their summoning
of daemon allies, preparing for the pending assault.
Belcorra’s visit to the drow of Yldaris went less well.
Quara Orshendiel, the granddaughter of the leader
from whom Belcorra extracted a promise to serve, had
little idea who Belcorra was. Still, Belcorra nevertheless
accepted Quara’s hastily-given (and not entirely
genuine) renewal of her grandfather’s promise.
Hunting Grounds Features
The numerous interconnecting caverns in the Hunting
Grounds are dark, but glowing fungus illuminates
enough areas to provide a sense of the caverns’ great
size. Ceiling height varies widely: large caverns are 40
feet high, smaller caverns are 20 feet high, and areas
worked for humanoid habitation—such as Yldaris, the
calignis’ lodge, and the Gate of Nhimbaloth—are 12
feet high. Doors in most areas are made of stone or
sturdy fungal wood. Entrances to inhabited areas are
often thicker or otherwise reinforced for defense.
The map of this level appears on page 166.
I1. GUARDED INTERSECTION
TRIVIAL 9
The passage upward to the Farm level is fairly secure,
but the cautious drow keep a guard here regardless.
Creatures: A surly drow hunter named Rikizlia sits
here on a stool, carving a bit of fungus wood with a
small carving knife. If the heroes arrive without escort,
she speeds toward area I2 for help. If other drow
accompany the heroes, she watches them with open
curiosity but doesn’t stop her whittling.
RIKIZLIA
CREATURE 7
Female drow hunter (page 234)
Initiative Perception +16
I2. CARAVAN STAGING
MODERATE 9
Several bags, barrels, and crates line the walls between
this cavern’s three exits.
Caravans going between Yldaris and Lozardyn load
and unload in this cave. It isn’t always busy, as the
caravans are on an erratic schedule, but usually at least
a few drow linger here. The passage east leads to a
network of twisting Darklands caverns.
Creatures: When the heroes ﬁrst arrive, six drow
are unloading cargo from a large, harnessed pack
lizard. If the heroes are under guard, or have otherwise
gained the trust of Yldaris, the drow don’t confront
or question them; otherwise, they mobilize a quick
defense. A warden takes 2 Interact actions to unhitch
a riding lizard to ﬁght alongside it. When combat
starts, one of the hunters races to area I3 to rally the
creatures there to join the attack. Drow who are badly
outnumbered or injured ﬂee into the caverns to the
east and don’t return for a few days.
DROW HUNTERS (2)
CREATURE 7
Page 234
Initiative Perception +16
DROW WARDENS (4)
CREATURE 4
Page 234
Initiative Perception +11
RIDING LIZARD (2)
CREATURE 5
Giant frilled lizard (Pathﬁnder Bestiary 229)
Initiative Perception +11
Treasure: These trade goods include spices, dried
fungus, and cloth that are all uncommon on the
surface. The 18 Bulk of goods is worth 100 gp in total.
I3. STABLE
MODERATE 9
This cavern contains pens for half a dozen giant lizards. A
jumbled pile of harnesses sits near the corrals.
Creatures: Three drow wardens are usually here,
guarding and feeding Yldaris’s riding lizards. The
lizards can climb out of the pens along the walls, but
they don’t do so unless directed to ﬁght.
DROW WARDENS (3)
CREATURE 4
Page 234
Initiative Perception +11
RIDING LIZARDS (6)
CREATURE 5
Giant frilled lizard (Pathﬁnder Bestiary 229)
Initiative Perception +11
I4. SECRET TUNNEL
This tunnel appears to come to a rocky end in the
south, but this ersatz collapse hides a secret door the
Yldaris hunters use to come and go from the caverns.
i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> S
20 2024
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Sep 20, 2024
24868626
4425178
