i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> S
20 2024
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Sep 20, 2024
24868476
4425028
18
danger in conﬁned spaces, which is why her shop is an all
domed canvas that opens to the sky. If Wrin thinks there’s
trouble, you’ll be the ﬁrst to oﬀer to help.
Choose two ability boosts. One must be to Constitution
or Intelligence, and one is a free ability boost.
You’re trained in the Occultism skill and the Astrology
Lore skill. You gain the Dubious Knowledge skill feat.
WITCHLIGHT FOLLOWER
BACKGROUND
While in a dismal forest or remote swamp, you caught
sight of a string of lights bobbing through the trees.
You stepped forward for a closer look, and then still
further when the lights retreated a few paces. Then you
remembered the rumors. Will-o’-wisps, rushlights, corpse
lanterns—whatever they’re called—such evil creatures
lead people to their doom. With a supreme eﬀort of
will, you broke free from the alluring enchantment, and
you’ve resolved to never let the strange lights of remote
wildernesses claim you again.
Choose two ability boosts. One must be to Dexterity or
Wisdom, and one is a free ability boost.
You’re trained in Survival and the Wisp Lore skill. You
gain the Terrain Expertise skill feat with both swamp
terrain and subterranean bodies of water.
Wrin Sivinxi
Wrin Sivinxi grew up in the small village of Glitterbough
in Kyonin, but a traveler wouldn’t ﬁnd her hometown
if they were to visit that nation today, for Glitterbough
was destroyed 10 years ago by demons in the service
of Treerazer. Despite the loss of her hometown, Wrin
feels no sadness or despair about the event, for none
perished in Glitterbough’s fall. In the days before the
demon army’s attack, Wrin had a vision of the disaster.
She warned her parents and neighbors, and their
trust in her visions gave the town the time it needed
to relocate everyone in the village to safety. When
the demons came, they found Glitterbough deserted,
and when they burned it in frustration, they suffered
greatly from the magical traps the elves had left behind
to greet them.
When she came of age a few years later, Wrin left her
parents and friends, eager to ﬁnd her own place in the
world. As she traveled, she trusted in her visions and
her unusual faith in a pantheon of deities associated
with space and time she refers to as the Cosmic
Caravan, looking to the nightly stars to make decisions
for tomorrow. Her knack for ﬁnding lost things and
gathering strange treasures made establishing her own
curio shop an obvious choice, and it wasn’t by chance
that she decided to set up that shop in Otari—it was
simply the port she’d arrived at when her capacity to
carry her collection ﬁnally outweighed its portability.
She opened her shop, Wrin’s Wonders, four
years ago. In that time, she has become part of the
community, even if many of its citizens regard her
as a good-natured eccentric. Sales of the strange and
bizarre aren’t brisk in the small town, but that’s no
matter to Wrin—she’s patient and has enjoyed her
time in Otari so far. One day, she hopes to make
enough money to fund a trip west, for she has heard
tell of an abandoned observatory in the small town of
Crookcove on Ravounel’s southwestern coast that she
hopes to purchase and transform into a temple devoted
to the Cosmic Caravan. But for the time being, she’s
content to stay in Otari and sleep under the stars.
Wrin’s tieﬂing ancestry is impossible to miss, and
it’s something she long ago decided to embrace. Eyes
devoid of pupils, small ram horns curling around her
elven ears, a thin tail, and ﬁngertips that sparkle with
motes of glittering lights leave no doubt that she’s
touched by supernatural forces. Yet, her quick smile
and welcoming attitude have always helped her to
secure friendships during her travels.
CAMPAIGN USE
Wrin’s primary purpose is to motivate the heroes’
initial explorations and to give them a focal point to
gather around. The Abomination Vaults Adventure
Path assumes that Wrin is a contact the heroes share
in common, so when she notices a strange buildup of
eerie light atop distant Gauntlight, it’s natural for her
to conﬁde her fears in the heroes.
As the campaign progresses, Wrin can help the
heroes in other ways, such as by performing astrology
readings for the heroes to aid them in their explorations.
While she won’t give her store’s wares away for free,
her establishment is the best place to buy and sell the
odd magical treasures heroes tend to ﬁnd and crave.
Wrin can also introduce the heroes to the wonders of
the spirit world—her tutelage unlocks the ghost hunter
archetype (page 230). Despite the claustrophobia she
suffers, if the heroes ﬁnd themselves in over their head
in the Abomination Vaults, you can have Wrin face her
fears to brave the dungeon and mount a rescue. Of
course, you shouldn’t use Wrin in this capacity except
as a last resort to keep the campaign from reaching an
untimely end!
WRIN SIVINXI
CREATURE 5
UNIQUE
CG
MEDIUM
ELF
HUMANOID
TIEFLING
Female tiefling elf oddities merchant (Pathfinder
Bestiary 262)
Perception +12; low-light vision, spirit sight (precise)
30 feet
Languages Aklo, Common, Elven, Sylvan, Varisian
i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> S
20 2024
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Sep 20, 2024
24868476
4425028
