i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> S
20 2024
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Sep 20, 2024
24868500
4425052
42
north seems particularly comfortable, although its cracked
leather padding is mostly decayed.
Belcorra addressed her serving staff here. No one
has been in this room in decades, though; neither the
mitﬂits nor the morlocks know about it. This room
(and area B6) thus serves as a safe place to hide or rest.
The secret door leading to area B8 is obvious from
the north side; anyone approaching this secret door
from the north automatically spots it.
B8. SERVANTS’ ROOMS
SEVERE 2
This large open area is a ﬁlthy mess, even beyond the
collapse to the south that clogs part of the room with
rubble. Half-eaten ﬁsh, cat-sized beetles, and bits of
waterfowl lie strewn about in a tangle amid gnawed bones
of larger creatures.
This large room once served as a common area for
servants to relax and take their meals. The southern
half of the room (along with the servants’ toilets and
bathing facilities) were buried under rubble long ago.
The collapsed stairwell to the south once led to area
A8 above. The eight unmarked rooms connecting to
this area are ruined bedrooms with nothing of interest.
A hero Searching this area can discover the secret
door leading north to area B7 with a successful DC 28
Perception check. Pulling an old wall sconce causes the
door to open. None of the morlocks have yet noticed it.
Creatures: The Ghost Queen morlocks lair here.
The ﬁrst time the heroes enter this area, four morlock
scavengers are present, ﬁddling with a partially ruined
ballista that they dragged, in pieces, from area B21
(where it once served as a trap). The morlocks snarl
and hiss if they’re interrupted, ﬁghting until only one
of them is left standing. The surviving morlock then
tries to ﬂee to area B12 to warn their king, Graulgust.
MORLOCK SCAVENGERS (4)
CREATURE 1
Page 240
Initiative Perception +6
B9. OLD OFFICE
MODERATE 2
A desk with a chair sits in the middle of this room, while
three empty picture frames hang on the walls.
Belcorra’s majordomo once worked here. The
frames used to hold detailed maps of the upper
dungeon levels. Volluk took them long ago.
Creatures: Graulgust commanded a pair of Ghost
Queen morlocks to guard this room, but they’re more
interested in tinkering with the broken clockwork
assistant the majordomo left behind. Their distraction
gives them a –2 penalty to initiative checks. They ﬁght
any intruders, ﬂanking foes when possible.
If a morlock scavenger ﬂeeing from area B8 runs
through the room, these morlocks relocate to area B10
to mount a defense.
MORLOCKS (2)
CREATURE 2
Pathﬁnder Bestiary 2 174
Initiative Perception +5 (+7 while not distracted)
Treasure: The morlocks have exposed the clockwork
assistant’s inner workings, which include an intricate
gear worth 40 gp. Removing the gear while preserving
its value requires a successful DC 16 Crafting check.
On a failure, the gear is worth only 20 gp; on a critical
failure, the gear breaks and is worth nothing.
B10. TRAPPED HALL
The north and south walls of this hall have been decorated
with a bewildering array of timbers, metal parts, gears, bits
of broken weapons, and trash.
Belcorra’s majordomo used this room for planning
and meetings, but the morlocks have dismantled the
furniture here, along with several other scavenged
items and devices, to build a gauntlet of traps to
defend the approach to their king’s throne room.
Hazards: Four spike launcher traps have been
hidden in the walls of this room, activated by nearly
invisible trip lines stretching across the room 1 foot
off the ground. Morlocks can move through the room
without triggering the spike launchers, as they know
where the trip lines are. One cord crosses each pair of
north‑to-south squares.
SPIKE LAUNCHERS (4)
HAZARD 0
MECHANICAL
TRAP
Stealth DC 19
Description A jagged spike of metal shoots from a hidden
launcher.
Disable DC 16 Thievery to disable one of the four launchers
or DC 12 Acrobatics to step over a trip line (this doesn’t
disarm the trap, but avoids triggering it)
AC 16; Fort +9, Ref +3
Hardness 3; HP 16 (BT 8); Immunities critical hits, object
immunities, precision damage
Spike Ǻȓ Trigger A creature crosses one of the trip lines;
Eﬀect A spike launches along the trip line’s path against
the triggering creature, making a ranged Strike.
Ranged spike +11 (range 20 feet), Damage 2d6+3 piercing
i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> S
20 2024
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Sep 20, 2024
24868500
4425052
