i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> S
20 2024
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Sep 20, 2024
24868550
4425102
92
Wrist Writing: Dorianna absently points out several
bruises on her right wrist that she can’t remember
getting. A hero trained in Occultism who
views the bruises can attempt a DC 22
Occultism check to Decipher Writing.
A hero who speaks Aklo gains a +2
circumstance bonus to this check. On
a success, the hero notes that the words
are related to some dream-traveling
rituals; on a critical success, the hero
notes the word “Leng” among the
bruises.
Either of these clues points to
the involvement of a malevolent
extraplanar
creature
called
a denizen of Leng. Leng is a
terrifying extraplanar location
just past the Dimension of
Dreams, where cruel and sinister
people called denizens of Leng
live. A hero who succeeds at a DC
24 Occultism realizes the nature of
the creature plaguing Dorianna; if the heroes obtained
both clues, then any hero trained in Occultism realizes
this without a check. Though the heroes might identify
the source of Dorianna’s trouble, there’s not much
they can do for her yet, because Ysondkhelir doesn’t
ever physically get anywhere near her.
XP Award: Award the heroes 80 XP if they discover a
denizen of Leng is involved in Dorianna’s malady.
DORIANNA’S MADNESS
About the time the heroes ﬁnish their exploration
of the laboratories level and start to investigate the
prison level, Dorianna’s condition suddenly gets
worse. She sleepwalks most of the time and is unaware
of events around her, as though seeing the world in a
hazy dream. Her right hand withers for no discernible
reason. Mayor Menhemes takes his daughter to Vandy
Banderdash at the Dawnﬂower Library, but the clerics
there can’t aid her.
The heroes hear about all of this on their next
return to Otari. Everyone else in the Menhemes family
is beside themselves with grief. If the heroes haven’t
previously gained Dorianna’s trust, they can now
attempt to do so, but the DC for the Diplomacy check
is 27, and they gain no bonus for having the support of
Menhemes Manor—Dorianna is beyond caring about
her former friends.
If the heroes have Dorianna’s trust, she describes
great adventures with the Motley Man in a fantastical
land of forests, palaces, and snowﬁelds. The Motley
Man told her they would soon be together on their
adventures forever, but he wanted her right hand as
a token. Dorianna didn’t hesitate to offer it to him,
and when she awoke her hand was withered. She
doesn’t consider it a particularly serious loss,
since her best friend wanted it so much.
Dorianna doesn’t know how long it will be
until she and the Motley Man are together
forever, and this timetable is intentionally
left vague so you can prompt your players
to action without punishing them if they
fail to reach Ysondkhelir quickly. They
should have, at a minimum, a week before
Dorianna vanishes.
Dorianna’s connection to Ysondkhelir
is now so strong that the heroes can
discover him through this link. A
hero trained in Occultism realizes
they can learn more by examining
Dorianna’s
psychic
patterns
while she is dreaming. This is an
exploration activity that takes 8
hours and requires a DC 23 Occultism
check. With a successful check, the hero learns the ﬁrst
fact below they don’t already know; with a critical
success they learn two facts; and with a critical failure,
they learn a false fact of your invention.
•	 There is a strong link between Dorianna’s mind
and the Dimension of Dreams. A denizen of Leng
has strengthened this conduit; unless that creature
is destroyed, Dorianna will eventually be drawn
wholly into that dimension and lost to this world.
•	 The hero gains images of the denizen’s lair: a stone
chamber with a very old map of the Inner Sea
region painted on it across from a map consisting
of several tattered pieces of paper that, together,
constitute a detailed map of Otari.
•	 The hero knows the denizen’s name is Ysondkhelir
and gains an accurate mental image of him.
•	 The hero can use the ruby in Dorianna’s possession
to track Ysondkhelir and can use the following
activity with the ruby. Even though Dorianna
doesn’t care if they take it, it’s still attuned to her
and returns to her each night. The heroes must
therefore return to Otari to recover it each day.
Activate 10 minutes (envision); Frequency once per
day; Eﬀect You focus on the ruby, which casts a
5th-level locate spell that only targets Ysondkhelir.
Treasure: After the heroes defeat Ysondkhelir, the
ruby no longer returns to Dorianna and becomes an
unusually shaped wand of locate. Dorianna swiftly
recovers afterward. Mayor Oseph effusively thanks
the heroes and arranges for each of them to receive an
Dorianna Menhemes
i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> S
20 2024
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Sep 20, 2024
24868550
4425102
