i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> S
20 2024
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Sep 20, 2024
24868583
4425135
125
Campaign
Overview
Otari
Chapter 1:
A Light
in the Fog
Chapter 2:
The Forgotten
Dungeon
Chapter 3:
Cult of the
Canker
Chapter 4:
Long Dream
the Dead
Chapter 5:
Into the Training
Grounds
Chapter 6:
Experiments
in Flesh
Chapter 7:
Soul Keepers
Chapter 8:
Decaying
Gardens
Chapter 9:
On the Hunt
Chapter 10:
To Draw the
Baleful Glare
Nhimbaloth
Adventure
Toolbox
Abomination
Vaults
here. They intend to assemble it using the morlock’s
head and the neatly labeled body parts scattered
around the room. A sketch pad bears the instructions
for assembly and notes that ambient necromantic
energy in the Abomination Vaults will animate the
ﬂesh golem. The key to this experiment is the occult
machinery keeping its head alive, which focuses this
ambient energy. Finishing the golem requires Jafaki’s
knowledge and expertise; doing so goes beyond the
heroes’ current capabilities.
The heroes can, however, disconnect the machine
to end the morlock’s torment. Disconnecting this
machinery requires a hero to succeed at a DC 22
Occultism check. On a success, the morlock head
dies and the machinery can’t be used again. On a
failure, or if the heroes simply smash the machine,
the morlock head dies, but the invisible energies
accumulated within the machine seek another
source of stitched skin and meat to animate as a
ﬂesh golem.
If the heroes left the ﬂeshy statue of Belcorra
intact in the Temple of the Canker (area F34), these
errant energies animate it as a ﬂesh golem (Pathﬁnder
Bestiary 184) instead. The ﬂesh golem comes to life
with an instinctive drive to ﬁnd and kill whoever
ruined the machine. It always knows the distance and
direction to the hero responsible and immediately
begins pursuit down through the Abomination Vaults.
As the golem is far away, it might take hours to catch
up to the heroes, at your discretion, but when it does,
it ﬁghts until destroyed.
Disappearing Morlocks: Jafaki is wrapped up in
their experiments and projects but nevertheless has
an effect on the surrounding dungeon. Every few
days, Jafaki calls for one of the morlocks in the
Warped Brew Tavern to come here with the promise
of being ﬂeshwarped into a dreshkan. The morlocks
eagerly come since Jafaki has created the many
dreshkans in the Abomination Vaults, but it’s a ruse.
Jafaki instead carefully dissects the morlock to add
additional living pieces to their current golem project.
If the heroes come here but retreat, Jafaki continues
these gruesome experiments; when the heroes return,
there should be more morlock parts afﬁxed to the
machinery (and fewer morlocks in area F11, if any
remained there). Once he has run out of morlocks to
experiment on, Jafaki starts capturing and dissecting
members of Shadow Malice instead.
Treasure: Scattered around the room are all the
pieces for an expanded alchemist’s lab, expanded
healer’s tools, and a superb repair kit. None of the
proper pieces are together, however, so it takes several
minutes of hunting around to assemble them all. In
addition, a crafter’s eyepiece and two vials of moderate
antiplague sit on the shelves.
XP Award: Award the heroes 80 XP, rather than
30 XP, for successfully disconnecting the occult
machinery. If they fail, award them this amount if they
defeat the ﬂesh golem in combat.
F26. ARENA FLOOR
SEVERE 6
Dried blood from past combats forms a crust over the sand
spread across this arena’s stone ﬂoor. Torches illuminate the
ﬂoor in bright light but hardly reach the walkway ringing the
arena high above. Two staircases lead up to this walkway, but
a metal portcullis blocks each one.
The site of hundreds of bloody battles, this arena
entertained Belcorra’s bloodthirsty guests and tested
her many gladiators. From these champions, she chose
ofﬁcers to lead her monstrous armies.
The portcullises are controlled by a wheel and lever
on the balcony above (area E26), but a creature can lift
a closed portcullis with a successful DC 25 Athletics
check. The doors to the east and west are unlocked.
Creature: After the death of hundreds of monsters
and gladiators, the arena is imbued with the essence
of death. When Jafaki ﬁrst dumped scraps from failed
creations here, the decaying ﬂesh spontaneously arose
as shanrigols. The ﬁrst few times this happened, Jafaki
had their driders drag the resulting shanrigols to the
holding cells (area E3) for study. Curious about how
large these aberrations could grow, Jafaki assembled a
giant pile of ﬂesh and assigned a seugathi to document
the resulting shanrigol’s composition and growth.
The creature has grown into a massive shanrigol
behemoth from incorporating scraps of driders,
urdefhans, and other creatures. The monstrosity simply
waits for meals of scraps and corpses. Outside of
feeding, the creature remains dormant and is relatively
unobservant. However, if it’s attacked, or if a creature
enters the area of its tremorsense, the shanrigol rouses
and attacks. It ﬁghts ferociously, using its web trap
against foes who ﬂee and shooting bone shards at
creatures who remain out of its reach. The shanrigol
behemoth ﬁghts until destroyed.
SHANRIGOL BEHEMOTH
CREATURE 9
Page 247
Initiative Perception +18
Treasure: A few creatures have tested their might by
ﬁghting the shanrigol—and lost. Their equipment lies
scattered in the bloody sand on the ﬂoor: ghoul hide, a
caterwaul sling, and a horn of fog.
i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> S
20 2024
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Sep 20, 2024
24868583
4425135
