i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> S
20 2024
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Sep 20, 2024
24868648
4425200
190
Belcorra stored a variety of alchemical bombs in this
vault. As the centuries passed, the wooden shelves that
held some of them collapsed, creating a chain reaction
of explosions and leaving the room and its vault door
in its current state. Nothing of value remains.
I56. CALIDDO’S VIGIL
LOW 9
This small, bare room contains more vault doors, just
as in area I53; Caliddo Haruvex carries these two keys
as well. There’s also a remarkably well-hidden secret
door here; a hero Searching this room discovers the
hidden switch to open it with a successful DC 30
Perception check.
Creatures: A warrior in archaic armor stands in
this room, clutching a greatsword. This is Caliddo
Haruvex, a skilled mercenary who came to serve
Belcorra when he heard how powerful his distant
relative had become. Belcorra accepted Caliddo’s
offer of aid and promptly killed him, raising him as
a graveknight eternally bound to serve her. Caliddo
proved his worth and loyalty to Belcorra many times,
so she entrusted him with guarding her vault. He kept
a silent vigil here for centuries.
When Belcorra returned, she put Caliddo to work
fetching several books she wanted out of the
hands of others who might use them against
her. For the ﬁrst time in centuries, Caliddo left the
vault. He recovered the texts from an upper level
of the dungeon and locked them in area I58.
Caliddo remains at his post and assaults anyone
who enters. If the heroes don’t face him with the golem
in area I53, he’s encountered here. Caliddo ﬁghts until
destroyed, but he doesn’t leave his post in the vault
unless Belcorra expressly orders him to.
CALIDDO HARUVEX
CREATURE 10
Male graveknight (Pathﬁnder Bestiary 191)
Initiative Perception +19
Items composite longbow (20 arrows), +1 resilient full plate,
greatsword, keys to Belcorra’s vault (areas I52 to I59)

Caliddo’s Return: Destroying Caliddo for good
proves difﬁcult because his armor rebuilds him. If he
rejuvenates after the heroes have plundered the vault,
he pursues them in an attempt to recover the items. He
doesn’t have any special connection to the treasures,
though, so he might have to search around a lot to
ﬁnd out where the heroes went. Caliddo isn’t likely
to negotiate, but he’s most interested in reclaiming his
keys and returning the books to the vault (as those
were the last things Belcorra expressed particular
interest in and, he assumes, the most valuable to her).
Heroes who turn over the keys and books might avert
Caliddo’s retribution and keep the other treasures.
I57. DERELICT ARMORY
Ancient weapon racks have collapsed over time, leaving
many swords, spears, and axes jumbled on the ﬂoor.
Caliddo Haruvex
i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> S
20 2024
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Sep 20, 2024
24868648
4425200
