i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> S
20 2024
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Sep 20, 2024
24868566
4425118
108
F1. CENTRAL SHAFT
LOW 6
The wide spiral staircase continues downward, leveling out
long enough to pass by a single door leading east and a
hallway leading west to a double door. The space between
them has a rounded, cloudy window overlooking a large pool
in a natural cavern. A dim orange glow emanates from far
below and, with it, a sulfurous stench.
The spiral stairs lead up to the ﬁfth level (area E1)
and down to the seventh level (area G1). The stairs
and the walkway connecting them have a narrow iron
handrail to prevent a fall 40 feet down to area G1.
The window is magically transparent stone.
As it’s part of Gauntlight’s support and thus part
of the artifact, it can’t be damaged. It also can’t be
manipulated like the transparent stone elsewhere in
the dungeon, as it lacks control glyphs.
Creatures: Jafaki knows that controlling this main
staircase is the best way to keep Urevian’s troops
from invading his territory; it’s also the ideal place to
capture new research subjects. A seugathi is on guard
here, along with a grothlut chained to the handrail.
The grothlut can move anywhere along the walkway
in the northern half of the room.
The seugathi watches for attacks from below, so
heroes descending from above might catch them off
guard (moaning and gibbering from monsters on
the landing above aren’t unusual and don’t alert the
seugathi). If the seugathi knows someone is coming,
they cast see invisibility from their wand, suppress
their mindfog aura, and feign friendliness just long
enough to put the newcomers at ease. They then try to
take the intruders prisoner, ﬁghting to the death to do
so if necessary.
The grothlut moans and charges forward when it
detects intruders of any kind but loyally follows the
seugathi’s commands.
SEUGATHI GUARD
CREATURE 6
Seugathi servant (page 244)
Initiative Perception +14
Items longsword, wand of see invisibility
GROTHLUT
CREATURE 3
Pathﬁnder Bestiary 158
Initiative Perception +5
Reinforcements: Jafaki doesn’t replace these guards.
If this landing remains unguarded for more than 5
days, Urevian sends a cautious barbazu from area
G3 or G5 and two dreshkans from area G4 or G15 to
secure it.
F2. GRIME DEPOSITS
Rust and grime ﬁll this octagonal chamber. A wide hallway
leads to the south.
A circular shaft in the ceiling leads up 25 feet
through the stone to area E2. If the heroes haven’t
triggered the pit trap there, the shaft’s top is covered
with the rusty grate that collapses when moved.
F3. ROCKY CAVE
MODERATE 6
The mossy walls of this pebble-strewn cavern extend
upward to a ceiling thirty feet high. A wide, rounded
window ﬁfteen feet above the ﬂoor overlooks this cavern.
Dripping water echoes from the east. The moss on
the walls is edible and, in fact, surprisingly tasty.
Creatures: Belcorra bound several earth elementals
here, more to keep wandering guests out of her nature
preserve (area F4) than for any other reason. The
elementals spring from the walls and ﬂoor 1d4 rounds
after any creature enters this cavern. They have ethereal
shackles visible on their limbs, representing their bound
nature; the shackles prevent them from leaving this
cave, but they can lurk just within the walls and ﬂoor.
An elemental reduced to fewer than 5 Hit Points retreats
into the stone and doesn’t return for several days.
LIVING LANDSLIDE
CREATURE 5
Pathﬁnder Bestiary 146
Initiative Perception +12
SOD HOUNDS (3)
CREATURE 3
Pathﬁnder Bestiary 146
Initiative Perception +9
Side Quest: A hero who’s an expert in Arcana or
Occultism realizes that the elementals’ binding is
weak and can be undone. This reversal ritual must be
performed in sight of the binding location; the stairs
leading up to area F2 or the window in area F1 make
good locations for the ritual since the elementals
can’t attack anyone there. The ritual takes 4 hours,
consumes 60 gp of gems, and requires a hero to succeed
at a DC 25 Arcana or Occultism check. The character
attempting the check must be an expert in the skill
being used. Up to four other characters can act as
secondary casters. Each secondary caster can attempt
a DC 23 secondary check (Pathﬁnder Core Rulebook
408) using Arcana, Nature, or Occultism but must be
trained in the skill used. The unbinding can use fewer
than four secondary casters (and need not include
i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> S
20 2024
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Sep 20, 2024
24868566
4425118
