i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> S
20 2024
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Sep 20, 2024
24868654
4425206
196
heroes enter here with Lady’s Whisper, the skeleton
silently points at the gray door. That door opens with a
push or simply swings aside if someone stands in front
of it for 1 round. The doors to the south (Hardness 15,
Hit Points 60) and the tubes’ mechanical iris openings
(Hardness 18, Hit Points 72) are all shut and don’t
open unless Lady’s Whisper wills it.
If dread wisps are following the heroes, one of them
takes a position above the basin to silently report
everything the heroes do here to Belcorra.
Passing the Challenge of Souls: When the heroes
return here having either fed or defeated the dread
wisps in area J8, Lady’s Whisper opens the doors to the
south and leaves them open. A hero who succeeds at a
DC 27 Perception check to Sense Motive realizes that
Lady’s Whisper is offended that the heroes passed the
test but is keeping this irritation suppressed.
J2. POISONING ROOM
MODERATE 10
At the eastern end of this long room stands a giant jade
statue of a cracked and chipped skeleton in a burial shroud.
The skull clenches a bundle of swamp weeds in its teeth.
Built into the walls are several narrow slits and stone doors.
A hero who Investigates the statue and succeeds at a
DC 25 Religion check realizes that it’s a rare physical
representation of Nhimbaloth.
Long ago, initiates were commanded to kneel
before Nhimbaloth. When they did, cultists hiding in
the galleries shot poisoned blowgun darts at them.
Those who didn’t succumb to poison were deemed to
be worthy and led south; those who succumbed were
taken north to have their souls harvested.
Creatures: Six cultists have arisen as specters.
They manifest in the shooting galleries with ghostly
blowguns, which they use in addition to their vile
touch Strikes to shoot ephemeral darts made of their
own ghostly substance. The narrow slits provide
anyone in the shooting galleries with greater cover
(+4 circumstance bonus to AC, Reﬂex saves against
area effects, and Stealth checks). If the heroes enter a
shooting gallery, the specters pass through the walls to
keep their distance. The specters ﬁght until destroyed.
SPECTERS (6)
CREATURE 7
Pathﬁnder Bestiary 2 248
Initiative Stealth +17 (+21 in the shooting gallery)
Ranged Ȱɵ vile blowgun +18 (range increment 20 feet),
Damage 3d6 negative plus 3d6 poison and spectral
corruption
J3. CLEANSING CHAMBER
Two grime-crusted copper tubs, devoid of water, stand
against the south wall.
Long abandoned, this chamber was once where
initiates who survived the poisoning room were
stripped, bathed with swamp water, and then escorted
into the worthies’ cave. A hero can discover the secret
door while Searching this room with a successful DC
25 Perception check. A false stone on the eastern wall
must be rotated to pivot open one of the copper tubs
and the wall behind it.
J4. WORTHIES’ CAVE
LOW 10
The ceiling of this natural chamber bears seven holes no
larger around than a human ﬁnger.
Before surviving initiates took the next challenge—
the Challenge of Despair—they were subjected to a
mind-numbing gas to make the test more difﬁcult.
The secret doors here both open the same way: when
rotated, a portion of the smooth, ﬂat wall makes the
door pivot open. The secret doors are each at the end
of short hallways, so they aren’t hard to ﬁnd. Anyone
Searching either short hall discovers the secret door
and the method of opening it. The doors won’t open,
however, if the room’s trap is active, so they must be
battered down (Hardness 18, Hit Points 60) to escape
the trap.
Hazard: The trap spews mind-numbing gas through
the seven holes in the ceiling.
THE PROCTOR
The heroes might go along with Lady’s Whisper at
ﬁrst, wondering just what the enigmatic undead
is asking of them. After they complete one or two
tests, they might decide they don’t want to be judged
worthy of Nhimbaloth’s attention after all. This is
especially true if they realize that each successful
test increases Lady’s Whisper’s displeasure and that
the undead plans to kill them.
Lady’s Whisper responds to any preemptive
attack by the heroes as though expecting it. The
undead attempts to levitate out of melee reach and
cast spells to eliminate the heroes. The lurking pair of
dread wisps that might have followed from area I64
join the ﬁght as well.
i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> S
20 2024
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Sep 20, 2024
24868654
4425206
