i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> S
20 2024
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Sep 20, 2024
24868592
4425144
134
What Szek Knows: Szek knows that Urevian has
some sort of arrangement with Belcorra, but he wants
to get out of it, even if it means making a deal to
undercut Belcorra’s efforts. She suggests talking to
Urevian to ﬁnd out more, but she knows they’ll need
the ﬁve parts of a pentagram amulet to open the door
to area G10.
If asked about the pieces’ locations, she speculates
that the fragments could be held by the sarglagon sent to
sabotage the laboratories level (area F5), Azvalvigander
the quartermaster (area G4), Barcumbuk the smith
(area G5), Iyagian the guard (area G6; they don’t have
one), the gate-forgers (area G7), or the strange Motley
Man who Szek sees sometimes but who terriﬁes her
(she refers to Ysondkhelir in area G18).
Szek knows that Urevian got tired of visitors from
the lower levels and blocked one route with magic
and the other route by simply stufﬁng it full of rubble.
She’s certain he could open either easily.
If asked about the higher levels, Szek gleefully admits
to participating in a “big ﬁght” between Urevian and
“the worm-monsters” a long time ago. She locked a
powerful wizard in his room with just a few pitons
and still takes pride in the act. The wizard—Chafkhem
in area E17—would be keen to learn that Szek is the
one who imprisoned him.
As far as the prison level’s layout, Szek has limited
information. She knows only about areas G1 through
G16, although she’s aware of an angry green spirit in
area G17. She has a rough idea of each room’s forces,
but she doesn’t know about the traps in areas G11 or
G16; in fact, she believes area G16 is haunted.
SZEK
CREATURE 1
Female imp (Pathﬁnder Bestiary 87)
Initiative Perception +7
G10. UREVIAN’S DOMAIN
SEVERE 7
The huge doors to this room are magically sealed and
emblazoned with an enormous, glowing pentagram,
The pentagram’s center has a circular indentation
about the size of a human hand with ﬁve deeper
indentations. The heroes can discern that some device,
like an amulet, ﬁts into the indentation.
Urevian’s pendant opens the door, but it’s currently
split into ﬁve fragments held by his lieutenants. A devil
who casts dimension door while touching even a single
fragment to the door can teleport to the other side. To
open the door, other creatures must reassemble all ﬁve
fragments and touch the pendant to the indentation.
After doing so, the door effectively stays open for
good; Urevian can enact a year-long ritual to recreate
the door and the pendant, but he likely won’t do so.
Urevian doesn’t realize it, but a clever user can open
the door with only four pendant fragments by touching
them to the door and succeeding at a DC 25 Religion
check to mimic the unholy energies of the missing
fragment. A creature who fails this check takes 4d12
ﬁre damage and is stupeﬁed 1 for 1 hour (8d12 ﬁre
damage and stupeﬁed 3 for 1 hour on a critical failure).
The ﬁve pieces are in areas F5, G4, G5, G7, and G18.
A large chamber of natural stone runs north to south with
an enormous stone double door as its only exit. Lit braziers
cast strange shadows on the walls and bathe the room in a
sinister light. Bookshelves and a sturdy desk, accompanied
by neatly rolled-up scrolls and stacks of parchment, ﬁll an
alcove to the north.
Urevian made this room his home, sealed off from the
rest of the dungeon so that he can work in peace. He
fashioned the door for himself, but he had to manufacture
a magical pendant for Belcorra so she could bypass it.
Shortly before Belcorra’s death, Urevian had the imp Szek
steal the pendant back. Urevian broke it into ﬁve pieces,
giving one to each of his lieutenants. His trusted devils
can come and go as they please, but even they know not
to bother Urevian barring ofﬁcial business.
The desk contains reports, inventories, and maps
that depict the surface world, Gauntlight, and the
surrounding Darklands. Of particular note to the
heroes are complete maps of the ﬁfth, sixth, and
seventh levels of the Abomination Vaults, including all
secret doors on those levels. The characters can also
ﬁnd copies of several infernal contracts, the originals of
which are safely stored in Hell’s vaults. A character who
Investigates the desk and succeeds at a DC 23 Society or
Legal Lore check realizes that Urevian has kept tabs on
Vol Rajani’s line for generations.
Creatures: The phistophilus Urevian spends most
of his time revising attack plans based on numerous
contingencies. He keeps two barbazu bodyguards
nearby at all times to intercept reports from his
lieutenants and to keep him from being disturbed.
When the heroes open the doors, the barbazus spring
forward, but Urevian stops them and warmly greets
the heroes. Read or paraphrase the following.
As a ruggedly handsome devil steps forward, as the long
rolls of parchment hanging from his horns curl up, then
unroll again. “Friends, friends! Weapons away. Truly, I am
happy to see you.” The devil turns to the two bearded devil
bodyguards, their glaives raised. “Stand down, you two. I
doubt they are arrogant enough to ﬁght us.
“I am Urevian, phistophilus and contracted agent of
Belcorra, but I assure you I am no enemy of yours. You seek
i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> S
20 2024
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Sep 20, 2024
24868592
4425144
