i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> S
20 2024
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Sep 20, 2024
24868674
4425226
216
THE WHISPERING REEDS
ITEM 10
RARE
ARTIFACT
DIVINATION
OCCULT
Usage held in 2 hands; Bulk 2
This hefty tome was compiled centuries ago by an
anonymous author who sought to collect all parables,
myths, stories, and encounters with the Outer Goddess
Nhimbaloth. According to the introduction, the author’s
original intent was to create a work that foes of the Empty
Death could use to ﬁght against her inﬂuence, but as one
reads through the book, it becomes apparent that the
opposite eﬀect has been achieved—by compiling these
stories, the author inadvertently generated a work that
made it easier for Nhimbaloth to inﬂuence the world. Those
who venerate the Empty Death seek copies of this book
to use as a guide and religious text, while those who
don’t know better and peruse the book as though it
were merely an anthology of stories ﬁnd themselves
unwittingly falling prey to Nhimbaloth’s cult or
agents of the entity herself. Those who study from
The Whispering Reeds for too long are often
cursed to rise as ghosts after death—though
their existence never lasts for long, as they
are inevitably consumed by Nhimbaloth.
If a character understands the dangers
of this book, however, moderated use can
stall or even prevent such a fate from befalling them. If
a character takes special care, they can even potentially
use The Whispering Reeds for its original purpose—as a
weapon against the cult of Nhimbaloth. Using the text
too often or leveraging some of its more powerful eﬀects,
however, causes the user to feel an ominous chill. In these
cases, the user is exposed to the tome’s curse, Empty
Death (see below).
The anonymous compiler wanted to produce an
enormous print run of The Whispering Reeds, but after
the initial run they realized the danger and scuttled
those plans, instead attempting to destroy those copies
already created. This crusade caught the attention of
Nhimbaloth’s cult, who swiftly assassinated the compiler.
Fewer than two dozen copies of this rare tome are
believed to still exist. The book’s sinister nature causes
all attempts to transcribe it to fail, resulting in bodies of
gibberish, nonsense text.
The Whispering Reeds provides several abilities, but you
can’t activate any of them while you are stupeﬁed unless
you are a follower of Nhimbaloth.
Activate 10 minutes (Investigate); Eﬀect You gain a +2
item bonus to skill checks to Recall Knowledge about
Nhimbaloth, her faith, or creatures associated with
her (such as incorporeal undead, vampiric mists,
wisps, and other incorporeal creatures associated with
death). Each time you use this ability after the ﬁrst in
a 24-hour period, you are exposed to the Empty Death.
Activate ʚʖ command, Interact; Frequency once per hour;
Eﬀect You read aloud a phrase from the book and target
a single incorporeal undead creature within 30 feet.
That undead creature takes 5d6 positive damage (DC 27
basic Will save) as portions of their incorporeal being
are consumed in patches of seven equally spaced holes.
Each time you use this ability after the ﬁrst
in a 24-hour period, you are exposed to the
Empty Death.
Activate
ʚʖ
command,
Interact;
Frequency once per day; Eﬀect You
invoke a tale from The Whispering
Reeds that parallels the situation, environment, or
creatures nearby. Eerie mists and indistinct whispers
rise in a 20-foot emanation around you, and clusters of
seven perfectly spaced divots manifest in the ground,
vegetation, and ﬂesh of creatures in the emanation other
than yourself and up to three creatures you designate
at the time of activation. Creatures aﬄicted with these
divots suﬀer from agonizing mental anguish
in the form of crippling despair and take 4d6
mental damage (DC 27 basic Will save). The
mists, whispers, and strange divots fade away at the end
of the round, but any creature that takes mental damage
from the eﬀect also takes a –1 penalty to saving throws
against eﬀects with the emotion trait for 1 minute. You
are exposed to the Empty Death each time you use
this ability.
Activate Cast a Spell; Frequency three times per day; Eﬀect
You cast one of the following spells at the lowest level
possible (unless otherwise speciﬁed): crushing despair
(one target within 30 feet only), fear (3rd), paranoia, or
phantasmal killer. You are exposed to the Empty Death
each time you use this ability.
Empty Death (curse, necromancy, occult) Saving Throw
DC 27 Will; Eﬀect If you activate The Whispering Reeds
and are not a worshipper of Nhimbaloth, you become
stupeﬁed 2 for 24 hours as your thoughts ﬁll with
paranoia that something is watching you from the other
side of death. If you die while aﬀected by the Empty
Death, you immediately become a chaotic evil ghost.
Every 7 days that pass after you become a ghost, you
must succeed at a DC 2 ﬂat check. On a failure, you are
consumed by Nhimbaloth. A creature whose ghost is
consumed in this way does not travel to the River of
Souls and is utterly annihilated; this creature can only
be restored to life via a 10th-level spell eﬀect or ritual,
like wish.
Destruction Copies of The Whispering Reeds have no
special protections and can be destroyed like any
regular book, but doing so without engaging in careful
ritual preparations exposes the one who destroyed the
book to the Empty Death.
Cooperative Blade
i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> S
20 2024
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Sep 20, 2024
24868674
4425226
