i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> S
20 2024
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Sep 20, 2024
24868682
4425234
224
Critical Failure As failure, but in addition, a hostile
creature is drawn through the portal and immediately
attacks anyone present. The creature drawn through
the portal varies, according to the portal’s nature; in
the Abomination Vaults, the creature conjured depends
on the dungeon level where the ritual was attempted,
as listed below.
First Level vampiric mist (Pathﬁnder Bestiary 2 278)
Second Level scalathrax (page 243)
Third Level gibbering mouther (Bestiary 176)
Fourth Level will-o’-wisp (Bestiary 333)
Fifth Level soul eater (Bestiary 2 247)
Sixth Level voidglutton (page 251)
Seventh Level dread wraith (Bestiary 2 298)
Eighth Level ghost mage (Bestiary 167)
Ninth Level gosreg (Bestiary 2 133)
Tenth Level shining child (Bestiary 292)
CALL THE BLOOD
This horrid spell is widely circulated among urdefhan
blood mages, and its gruesome use is a signature
ability of those spellcasters.
CALL THE BLOOD
SPELL 4
UNCOMMON
DEATH
NECROMANCY
NEGATIVE
Traditions arcane, occult, primal
Cast ʚʖ somatic, verbal
Range 60 feet; Target 1 living creature
Saving Throw basic Fortitude
With a word and gesture, you cause streams of blood to
erupt from the target’s mouth, nostrils, ears, or other facial
openings and come rushing into your mouth. You deal 8d4
negative damage to the target.
If the target takes damage, its blood ﬂows into your
mouth. If you’re a living creature and don’t have negative
healing, you’re sickened 2. If you’re undead (or living but
have negative healing), you can choose to either gain
temporary Hit Points equal to half of the negative damage
the target takes (after applying resistance and the like) and
become quickened for 1 round, or forgo the temporary Hit
Points and become quickened for 1 minute. You can use
this extra action only to Step, Stride, or Strike. You lose any
remaining temporary Hit Points after 1 minute.
Heightened (+1) The damage increases by 2d4.
DAYDREAMER’S CURSE
This spell creates a stultifying curse that afﬂicts the
target and inhibits the ability to think clearly. The
heroes are most likely to gain access to this spell
because it’s included among the spells in Zarmavdian’s
spellbook, Thresholds of Truth. It’s also among the
spells that a character with the Eldritch Researcher
archetype can learn.
DAYDREAMER’S CURSE
SPELL 4
UNCOMMON
ATTACK
CURSE
ENCHANTMENT
MENTAL
MISFORTUNE
Traditions arcane, occult
Cast ʚʖ somatic, verbal
Range touch; Targets 1 creature
Saving Throw Will; Duration varies
You impose a curse upon the target that renders it easily
distracted and unable to focus on tasks demanding insight
or discernment. The target must attempt a Will save.
Critical Success The target is unaﬀected.
Success For 10 minutes, the target must roll twice and
use the worse result whenever attempting a Medicine,
Nature, Perception, or Survival check. If the target
critically succeeds at a Perception check or skill check to
perform an action with the concentrate trait, the target
gets a success instead.
Failure As success, but the eﬀect is permanent.
Critical Failure As failure, except the target treats the
outcomes of all checks with the concentrate trait as
one degree of success worse than the result it rolled (a
critical success becomes a success, a success becomes
a failure, and a failure becomes a critical failure).
ECTOPLASMIC EXPULSION
Cavern seers are those rare denizens of the Darklands
who can pull whispers from the stone that supports
the world. Although drow cavern seers are rare, the
drow twins Bhazrade and Klathor have both tapped
into this power and can share this spell that draws out
possessing inﬂuences from living hosts. They teach it
to heroes on good terms with the Yldaris drow.
ECTOPLASMIC EXPULSION
SPELL 5
UNCOMMON
MENTAL
NECROMANCY
Traditions occult
Cast ̂ˬ material, somatic, verbal
Range 30 feet; Target 1 creature
You call upon tendrils of ephemeral ectoplasm to pass
through the target and carry away a harmful psychic
aﬄiction. You immediately attempt to counteract a single
eﬀect on the target with the emotion or possession trait,
or an eﬀect giving the target the controlled or fascinated
condition. If you fail to counteract the eﬀect, you
nevertheless set up a resonance that allows the target to
more ably escape the eﬀect on its own; for the next hour,
the target gains a +2 status bonus to Will saves to shrug
oﬀ the eﬀect you failed to counteract (such as Will saves
to shake oﬀ control by the possession spell).
SAGE’S CURSE
This spell overwhelms the brain with knowledge and
is available to characters with the Eldritch Researcher
archetype.
i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> S
20 2024
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Sep 20, 2024
24868682
4425234
