i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> S
20 2024
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Sep 20, 2024
24868516
4425068
58
area C17 is “Safety” with a carving of leaping
ﬂames, area C18 is “Personal Quarters,” area C19 is
“Scrivener’s Ofﬁce,” area C26 is “Belcorra’s Ofﬁce,”
the hallway leading to areas C30 to C32 is “North
Wing,” and area C33 is “Restricted Collection.”
Creatures: Four ghouls all dressed in long, pale‑blue
robes work here, both to stand guard and to select or
retrieve books for the scriveners or cult leaders to use
or repair as needed. They don’t immediately attack the
heroes but do lick their lips in anticipation as they size
up their ﬂeshy bits. One ghoul asks the party if they’re
here to “donate ﬂesh for the Canker,” hoping to ﬁnd
out if the heroes are willing to offer body parts to the
work in area C34. A hero foolish enough to agree is
expected to lop off an appendage (a ﬁnger, toe, or ear
sufﬁces) for the ghouls, who scurry off to area C34
with the donation. Any other attempt to interact with
the ghouls quickly makes them impatient and they
attack. These ghouls ﬁght until destroyed.
If a ﬁght here last more than 4 rounds or is unusually
loud, the ghouls in area C15 come to investigate.
GHOULS (4)
CREATURE 1
Pathﬁnder Bestiary 169
Initiative Perception +7
Side Quest: A hero who knows Morlibint of Odd
Stories in Otari (or any hero who makes a successful
DC 14 Society check to Recall Knowledge when seeing
these books) realizes that Morlibint would likely be
interested in this collection. If a hero tells Morlibint
about the library here, the wizard eagerly provides a
long list of speciﬁc titles, publishers, and general themes
to seek in the shelves. In this area’s Treasure section,
along with those of other book-ﬁlled rooms nearby, the
number of books that can be salvaged and collected
for Morlibint are given a Bulk rating. A hero searching
for books in one of these rooms can attempt a DC 18
Perception check to sort through the books and, on a
success, secure 1 Bulk from the room’s total available
book Bulk (or 2 Bulk on a critical success). Morlibint
pays 5 gp per Bulk delivered to him in this way.
Treasure: The books kept here are of general
knowledge and thus little interest to Morlibint; there
are only 2 Bulk of books here to gather for him.
XP Award: If the heroes deliver at least 12 Bulk of
books to Morlibint, they complete the side quest. They
can still sell him more books, if they ﬁnd any.
C12. REPAIR MATERIALS
Shelves on the wall here contain iron sorting racks, jars,
and all manner of bookbinding tools.
Treasure: This room contains repair materials for
the upkeep of books. All are too old to be useful. A
hero Searching this room discovers two 2nd-level
scrolls of mending and a scroll of hypercognition.
C13. LIBRARIAN’S WORKROOM
MODERATE 3
The door to this room from area C11 is locked, and
its key is inside the room. A hero can Pick the Lock
with three successful DC 20 Thievery checks or Force
it Open with a successful DC 20 Athletics check, but
a failed Athletics check alerts the ghost in the room.
Three worktables line the walls of this room with a single
stool near one of the tables. A skeleton wearing a light blue
librarian’s robe lies in a heap beside the stool.
Three specialized benches here are outﬁtted to
bind books, repair pages, and prepare parchment,
respectively. The tables and tools are old and useless.
Creatures: The ghost of the librarian Jarelle Kaldrian
still haunts this workroom. Jarelle couldn’t escape the
other scholars’ increasingly gruesome schemes, so she
retreated into this room, locked the door, and drank a
jar of arsenic (used to work with book bindings) rather
than be eaten alive. She died quickly and in agony, only
to rise soon thereafter as a ghost. Jarelle spends her
time pantomiming the act of repairing books.
Jarelle is suspicious of the heroes but not
immediately hostile unless they show aggression,
though she becomes irate and attacks if they speak ill
of Belcorra. If the heroes choose to talk to her rather
than ﬁght, they can see that she seems drawn to her
tools and equipment, as if by a compulsion to reenact
her life’s work.
JARELLE KALDRIAN
CREATURE 5
UNIQUE
LE
MEDIUM
GHOST
INCORPOREAL
SPIRIT
UNDEAD
Female human ghost librarian (Pathﬁnder Bestiary 166)
Perception +12; darkvision
Languages Aklo, Common, Necril, Undercommon
Skills Library Lore +15, Stealth +14
Str –5, Dex +5, Con +0, Int +2, Wis +3, Cha +0
Site Bound (area C13)
AC 21; Fort +9, Ref +14, Will +12
HP 48, negative healing, rejuvenation; Immunities death
eﬀects, disease, paralyzed, poison, precision, unconscious;
Resistance all damage 5 (except force, ghost touch, or
positive; double resistance vs. non-magical)
Rejuvenation (divine, necromancy) Removing this room’s
tables and tools allows Jarelle to move on to the afterlife.
Speed ﬂy 25 feet
Melee Ȱɵ ghostly hand +14 (agile, ﬁnesse, magical), Damage
3d8 negative
i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> S
20 2024
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Sep 20, 2024
24868516
4425068
