i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> S
20 2024
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Sep 20, 2024
24868480
4425032
22
Abomination Vaults. Belcorra’s spite has festered in the
intervening centuries, and she hungers for revenge, not
only against Absalom for destroying her family, but also
the town of Otari and its founders—the heroes who
killed her. Belcorra bides her time while she rebuilds,
reenergizing the dread Gauntlight and reasserting her
dominance over the feral and forgotten monsters of the
Abomination Vaults!
Getting Started
The Abomination Vaults Adventure Path focuses
primarily on the sprawling dungeon complex, and
this campaign begins as the heroes approach the
aboveground ruins for the ﬁrst time. Their mutual
friend, Wrin Sivinxi, has already briefed them about
her sighting of a strange glow atop the ruin’s towering
lighthouse. From Otari, no one other than Wrin can
make out this glow, but if the heroes look up at night
from the immediate environs, they can conﬁrm what
Wrin’s supernaturally acute eyes picked out from
town—the top of the lighthouse does indeed glow a
faint, eerie blue after dark.
Of course, you don’t have to start this campaign on
the literal front porch of the dungeon—if you wish,
you can ease the heroes by roleplaying their initial
encounter with Wrin (perhaps as she gives them an
astrology reading), or after the heroes spend time in
town involving some last-minute shopping or a trip
to a tavern. In this case, consult the Otari gazetteer on
starting on page 9 or Wrin’s entry on page 18, but the
fun doesn’t truly begin until the heroes head up the
Gaunt Trail to the foreboding ruins in Fogfen!
Gauntlight Ruins Features
As the heroes approach the ruins of Gauntlight Keep
for the ﬁrst time, read or paraphrase the following.
The sound of frogs and mosquitoes mixes with water
sloshing against muddy shores, all muﬄed by the ever-
present mists that linger in the aptly named Fogfen. As
the mists clear, a shadow looms from the cloying swamp
vapors—a sprawling ruin of stone and wood squats atop an
island in the soggy marsh. The upper ﬂoors have largely
collapsed, leaving only the stone walls of the ground
ﬂoor intact. Above these ruins towers an out‑of‑place
monument—a colossal lighthouse whose painted walls
and iron-cased crown have resisted the corrosive eﬀects
of the surrounding swamp.
While the overgrown trail leads right to area A1, the
heroes can access the ruins through other entrances.
Along the southern side, waters surrounding the
ruins are relatively shallow, but on other sides, the
depth ranges from 10 to 15 feet, requiring a boat or
swimming to navigate.
With the exception of Gauntlight (area A25), the
upper levels of Gauntlight Keep collapsed long ago,
even falling to the ground ﬂoor in places. Areas
denoted as rubble on the map of Gauntlight Keep
are open to the sky above and considered difﬁcult
terrain. Where the roof hasn’t caved in, ceilings
are 10 feet high unless otherwise noted. The only
illumination comes from whatever sunlight ﬁlters in
through the constant fog. The doors on this level
are all cracked and rotten except where indicated;
handling them with any amount of force causes
them to split or simply fall off their hinges with a
wet splintering sound.
Gauntlight is magically protected from damage, as
described on page 215. This protection has bled into
the surrounding ruins somewhat, slowing the usual
rate of decay over the past 500 years. Nevertheless,
time is inexorable, and the rest of the ruins have
suffered in the passage of centuries.
The main faction active in the ruins is what’s left of
a small gang of mitﬂit gremlins who call themselves
the Mudlickers. Led by a large, bearded gremlin
named Boss Skrawng, the Mudlickers believe they
once dwelt in “glory” underground. However, the
arrival of the much larger and meaner Ghost Queen
morlocks forced them out of their homes, and they’ve
struggled to regain their footing ever since. Boss
Skrawng has thus far formed the inkling of a plan to
raise an army of giant insects to take over Otari. He
has already exuberantly guaranteed the restoration
of Mudlicker glory through this scheme, so the gang
BEYOND GAUNTLIGHT
The ruins of Gauntlight Keep aren’t far out of town—
just a 20-minute walk from Otari to the ruins. The
Abomination Vaults Adventure Path focuses almost
entirely on the dungeon itself, and you can gloss over
the details of trips between the dungeon and town as
you see ﬁt. If your players express interest in mixing
things up, you can use some of the encounters or
short adventures in the standalone Pathﬁnder
Adventure: Troubles in Otari. That adventure presents
additional content in the Otari hinterlands suitable
for 2nd- to 4th-level characters and provides great
ways to prepare heroes who need a bit of extra XP
before they delve into the deeper, more dangerous
levels of the Abomination Vaults.
i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> S
20 2024
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Sep 20, 2024
24868480
4425032
