i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> S
20 2024
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Sep 20, 2024
24868560
4425112
102
this room to die several centuries ago. Chafkhem
wants revenge against Jafaki, and he suggests that the
heroes seek it on his behalf.
Chafkhem knows Belcorra is long dead, although he
expresses concern if the heroes let him know that she
also returned as an undead creature. Chafkhem makes
plans to depart the Abomination Vaults and return to
his native Osirion; whether the heroes want to let an
evil mummy go free is up to them.
Chafkhem takes 2d4 days to put his papers in
order and carefully replicate the arcane patterns of his
magic circle before he leaves. If the heroes return in
that time with proof that they’ve slain Jafaki or that
the imp Szek orchestrated Chafkhem’s imprisonment,
the mummy expresses his gratitude and rewards
them with information. He sketches out the entirety
of the Arena level for them, including all its secret
doors and passages, and provides the heroes with the
magical passphrase to disable the trap in area E20. He
doesn’t have any blank parchment, so he writes on
his spellbook page containing freedom of movement;
the heroes can later Learn a Spell from that page, in
addition to having the useful map.
Treasure: Chafkhem’s desk contains hundreds of
pieces of parchment with writing covering every bit
of space. For many years, Chafkhem only had access
to this parchment, and he has made full use of it.
These papers not only serve as Chafkhem’s spellbook,
allowing heroes to Learn a Spell from them, but also
contain the awaken portal and create undead rituals.
Any hero who spends time Investigating these papers
discovers both rituals.
E18. LEVEL 5 PORTAL CHAMBER
The door to this room is locked, and Chafkhem has the
only key. A hero can Force it Open with a successful
DC 25 Athletics check or Pick the Lock with four
successful DC 25 Thievery checks.
Swirling runes carved into the stone and ﬁlled with silver
cover the walls of this circular chamber. The ﬂoor is
polished smooth, as is the ceiling 10 feet above.
The heroes might have discovered the inactive
network of permanent teleportation circles Belcorra
installed to move quickly throughout the Abomination
Vaults in the dungeon’s upper levels. The heroes
could have even started restoring the network if they
discovered the awaken portal ritual (if they didn’t ﬁnd
this ritual in area C35, they can ﬁnd it in Chafkhem’s
notes in area E17). This room contains yet another
inactive teleportation circle that the heroes can connect
to others they’ve already reawakened.
XP Award: Award the heroes 30 XP for using the
awaken portal ritual to reactivate this room’s magic.
E19. SPYING CHAMBER
This unadorned room’s most notable feature is the
secret door that leads to the grand concourse (area
E10). The secret door isn’t obvious from this side, so a
character must succeed at a DC 20 Perception check to
locate it. A hero who knows the series of knocks that
opens the door in the grand concourse can also open
the secret door from this side, making the door ghostly
and incorporeal.
A window of one-way transparent stone allows
anyone from within this room to view events in the
grand concourse. The stone appears opaque from
the concourse side, and the window is undetectable.
Anyone touching the transparent stone from this
side can hear anything in the concourse through a
permanent clairaudience effect.
E20. SECRET HALLWAY
SEVERE 5
Bones and dismembered limbs lay scattered throughout
this irregular, branching hallway.
Belcorra and Chafkhem spied on gladiators from
this secret hall, paranoid about insurrection. When
neither Belcorra nor Chafkhem was present, they
activated a deadly trap to protect the hall from
intruders. The severed limbs here once belonged to
seugathis, skulks, and several ﬂeshwarped creatures
who tried and failed to contend with the trap over the
past several years.
The jagged halls contain several blocks of one-way
transparent stone offering a view into the gladiators’
quarters. The stone appears opaque from within the
rooms and can’t be detected. Anyone touching a
transparent stone from this side can hear in the room
through a permanent clairaudience effect.
The two secret doors in this branching hall (leading
to areas E14 and E24) are obvious from this side.
Hazard: Originally intended to keep intruders out
of the secret hall, a scythe trap currently interferes
with the seugathis’ efforts to explore this area.
The 15-foot-by-25-foot area where the branching
hallways connect contains dozens of pressure plates
that trigger the trap when someone moves anywhere
in the area.
None of the three narrow halls have any pressure
plates, though the blades pass through them. The
trap lashes out with its blades, then retracts them
and moves them around secretly so the blades’ next
Strikes are hard to predict.
i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> S
20 2024
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Sep 20, 2024
24868560
4425112
