i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> S
20 2024
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Sep 20, 2024
24868634
4425186
176
I18. SEERS’ QUARTERS
MODERATE 9
This large room contains only two thin sleeping mats. The
ceiling is painted with patterns resembling constellations.
Bhazrade and Klathor live here. The twins receive
enigmatic divinations by communing with the stone
of the Darklands, focused through the patterns in the
ceiling. They share this wisdom with their allies in
whatever way they believe best beneﬁts Yldaris.
Creatures: When here, the twins are usually
meditating or resting. In a ﬁght, they use their occult
powers to harry and incapacitate foes one at a time.
BHAZRADE AND KLATHOR
CREATURE 9
UNIQUE
CN
MEDIUM
DROW
ELF
HUMANOID
Male drow cavern seers (2; Pathﬁnder Bestiary 136)
Perception +18; darkvision
Languages Common, Elven, Undercommon
Skills Acrobatics +17, Nature +18, Occultism +18 (+20
underground), Stealth +19, Survival +18
Str +2, Dex +4, Con +0, Int +1, Wis +3, Cha +4
Items staﬀ, wand of manifold missiles (1st level)
Light Blindness
AC 27; Fort +15, Ref +19, Will +18; +1 status to all saves vs.
magic, +2 status to all saves vs. mental
HP 110; Immunities sleep
Stone Defense Ǻȓ Trigger An enemy is about to damage
the cavern seer with bludgeoning damage or with a spell
that has the earth trait; Eﬀect The cavern seer gains
resistance 10 against the triggering damage.
Speed 30 feet
Melee Ȱɵ staﬀ +19 (two-hand d8), Damage 1d4+4
bludgeoning
Divine Innate Spells DC 28; 2nd darkness (at will), faerie
ﬁre (at will); Cantrips (5th) dancing lights
Occult Spontaneous Spells DC 28, attack +20; 5th (3 slots)
black tentacles, ectoplasmic expulsion (page 224), prying
eyes; 4th (4 slots) dimension door, globe of invulnerability,
outcast’s curse, sound burst; 3rd (4 slots) blindness,
heroism, slow, wanderer’s guide; 2nd (4 slots) augury, false
life, invisibility, paranoia; 1st (4 slots) bless, command, grim
tendrils, mending; Cantrips (5th) chill touch, daze, detect
magic, know direction, shield
Rituals DC 28; commune, geas
Cavern Distortion ʚʖ (occult, transmutation) Frequency
once per day; Requirements The cavern seer is
underground; Eﬀect Pebbles and dust rise from the stone
to impede vision. The cavern seer and their allies within
60 feet become concealed for 1 minute. This concealment
can’t be used to Hide or Sneak.
Underground Stride The cavern seer ignores diﬃcult
terrain while underground.
I19. QUARA’S CHAMBER
Both doors along this hallway are locked, and Quara
carries the keys. Picking a Lock requires ﬁve successful
DC 30 Thievery checks or a successful DC 33 Athletics
check to Force Open. The inner door bears a glyph
of warding containing a 4th-level sound burst (DC
28 basic Reﬂex save; DC 28 to notice and disarm
the glyph). The glyph triggers if the door is opened
without the key.
An unmade bed piled with pelts sits next to a table stacked
with papers and a half-eaten meal on a plate. A chest sits
crookedly in the corner with clothing spilling out of it.
This chamber has always housed Yldaris’s leader;
it was most recently Larathols’s room, and now it’s
Quara’s. This fact sits uneasily with her, as she still
considers the room to be her father’s private space.
The north wall contains a cunning secret door, which
Quara can use to slip into the common area to ﬁnd
reinforcements or escape from trouble. Locating the
secret door requires a successful DC 30 Perception check,
and opening it involves pushing the correct sequence of
hidden wall panels to cause the wall to slide outward.
Treasure: Within the open chest, amid personal
items and changes of clothes, is a small iron box
containing 50 gp, a gold and opal bracelet worth 75
gp, and 5 tiny diamonds worth 30 gp each. The chest
also contains two black cloaks of elvenkind and two
pairs of boots of elvenkind. Quara loans these items to
her people during particularly sensitive missions in the
Hunting Grounds. She might loan them to heroes on
especially good terms with her.
I20. MEDITATION CAVE
This massive cavern is stunning. Among its gray stones cut
veins and growths of crystals in lustrous shades of pearl
white, dark purple, glimmering blue, and brilliant scarlet.
At the center of the chamber waits a shallow pool, its
bottom and sides made of the same glittering crystals.
This chamber is the closest thing that the outpost
has to a temple, though few Yldaris drow are religious.
Bhazrade and Klathor perform their rituals here.
I21. LODGE ENTRY
This large stone structure is ﬂanked on one side by the
massive Gauntlight footprint to the north and on the
other by the enormous iron ladder descending from
the chasm in the Farm level. Belcorra built this lodge
so those hunting in the wild caverns could relax in
relative safety. In the earliest days, urdefhans, drow, and
i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> S
20 2024
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Sep 20, 2024
24868634
4425186
