89
Hit Points
10
Size
Medium
Speed
25 feet
Ability Boosts
Constitution
Free
Languages
Common
Additional languages equal to your
Intelligence modifier (if positive).
Choose from Aklo, Draconic, Dwarven,
Elven, Goblin, Undercommon, and
any other languages to which you
have access (such as the languages
prevalent in your region).
Traits
Aberration
Humanoid
Low-Light Vision
You can see in dim light as though it
were bright light, so you ignore the
concealed condition due to dim light.
Unusual Anatomy
Your unorthodox body resists physical
afflictions meant for other creatures.
You gain a +1 circumstance bonus to
saves against diseases and poisons.
Physical DescriPtion
Fleshwarps are humanoids, ranging from 5 to 7 feet tall and from just under
100 pounds to more than 300 pounds. The proportion and appearance of their
limbs and features differ widely, but fleshwarps functionally have two legs,
two arms, and a single head; a fleshwarp with more limbs than this should
consider an appropriate ancestry feat to reflect this variance, or one of their
limbs might be vestigial and mostly nonfunctional. Fleshwarps differ widely
in their appearance due to the unique circumstances of their creation. Even
fleshwarp siblings or two people transformed through the same procedure
might look wildly different.
society
Fleshwarps are so few in number that congregations of them are rare. They
most often live on their own, with a small family group, or at the outskirts of a
community. Some thrive in cities, however, where they can remain anonymous
among the crowds while pursuing careers that allow them to avoid contact
with people who might fear or persecute them.
Fleshwarps value endurance and are quick to learn from others, so those
who come into contact with others of their kind usually share stories that help
each other survive, hide, or thrive more effectively. How a fleshwarp formed
can be a painful or horrifying subject, one they consider rude to discuss with
anyone besides close friends or loved ones.
alignment anD religion
Fleshwarps have little to gain from the broader society, and therefore rarely
work to support society in turn, beyond perhaps helping other fleshwarps. They
need to be able to adapt quickly to survive on their own. As a consequence, few
fleshwarps are lawful. Although bigoted or short-sighted people view fleshwarps
as monsters, fleshwarps are no more or less prone to evil than any other
people, and most seek only to live their lives without trouble. Most are neutral
in alignment, for while alienation doesn’t force a fleshwarp to feel contempt
for others, neither does it encourage a fleshwarp to avoid it. This is especially
true for fleshwarps living in the societies that gave birth to their traumatic
transformation. Fleshwarps aren’t often casually religious; most either have little
to do with faith at all (viewing themselves as scorned by the gods or simply
seeing faith as impractical for survival) or are exceptionally devout. Religious
fleshwarps often revere Arazni, Calistria, Desna, or Gozreh; evil fleshwarps
typically turn to Lamashtu, finding consolation in the Mother of Monsters.
names
Fleshwarps can come from—and thus have names from—any culture or
ancestry, but some give themselves new names after being transformed, whether
to celebrate the change, recognize a new phase of their lives, or conceal their
past identity. Many fleshwarps also carry a descriptive nickname granted to
them by others, such as “Triple Handed,” “Barkfoot,” or “Many-Mouth.”
Fleshwarps don’t keep nicknames they find personally offensive, but they tend
to keep ones that describe their distinctive appearances or that are given by
people they care about.
samPle names
Borble, Dag, Feff, Hurn, Kemp, Omber, Ostro, Shurni, Surm, Wumpin
FLESHWARPS ON GOLARION
The eldritch magic and aberrant alchemy used to create fleshwarps are rare
but not unique. A number of different organizations and effects in Golarion
produce fleshwarps, and one of a fleshwarp’s most important aspects—
beyond appearance or attitude—is their origin, which influences both their
form and their attitude toward the world.
ANCESTRY
GUIDE
EXPANDED
ANCESTRIES
AND
HERITAGES
NEW
ANCESTRIES
AND
HERITAGES
ANCESTRAL
GEAR
GLOSSARY
AND INDEX
