Tengu
56
Perhaps in reflection of their patron—the storm god Hei Feng—trouble and
turmoil has filled the recent history of the tengu people. The tengu spent
more than 400 years as a persecuted underclass of the empire of Lung Wa.
Many tengu fled from their ancestral homelands during this time, taking
boats to Arcadia or risking the deadly journey across the Crown of the
World in search of a better life. Even now, with Lung Wa 100 years gone
and the tengu homeland of Kwanlai regained, the tengu diaspora remains.
TENGU OF GOLARION
Established tengu enclaves tend to have long and storied histories behind
them, with proud legends, traditions, and social roles passed down from
generation to generation.
jinxfEathEr tEnGu
The most common tengu found in the Inner Sea region, jinxfeather
tengu eke out their living along the coast of Garund, often in fishing villages
around the Shackles. They descended from migrants who traveled from Tian
Xia for easily available work as sailors, dockworkers, and fishers. Garund
proved the most attractive for many tengu due to a curious superstition among
the sailors of the Shackles—that tengu eat and negate bad luck, making their
presence valuable on sailing ships. Many tengu found the role of “jinx eater”
on a sailing crew to be a relatively privileged position. Today, jinxfeather
tengu often play up this legend to increase their perceived worth, though this
practice has also led to tengu youths being kidnapped and press-ganged.
Jinxfeather tengu often have the jinxed or stormtossed tengu heritage.
kaWatEnGu
One of the rarest ethnicities of tengu, kawatengu focus much of their communal
efforts on isolationism. These river-dwelling people largely keep their presence
a secret from others; if not for their regular harassment of fishers and
traders in Lung Wa successor states, their existence might have remained
completely hidden. While generally misanthropic towards others,
kawatengu have been rumored to accept rare jobs as smugglers,
saboteurs, and assassins. Kawatengu are the most likely tengu to have
unusual feather colors or patterns, and many possess brown feathers or
white striped patterns throughout their black plumage.
Kawatengu often have the dogtooth tengu or wavediver tengu heritages
(page 57). They also commonly take the Mariner’s Fire ancestry feat.
kOnOha tEnGu
Konoha tengu reside in the Forest of Spirits in Tian
Xia. With smaller frames compared to most tengu,
they often tend towards simple clothing or none
at all. They commonly inhabit trees near water,
playfully snatching fish out of rivers, and their
kilns and forges provide the only trappings of
advanced technology. They express curiosity
and friendliness for those that simply wish
to pass through their homeland, but rapidly turn cold toward any who
seem interested in settling permanently or otherwise troubling the Forest
of Spirits. Konoha tengu are known to swarm and rip apart any oni who
trespass from Chu Ye, a habit that some scholars believe won tengu their
occasional resistance to curses.
