53
spread from Katapesh and Druma to markets, caravansaries, and dungeons across
the Inner Sea. Most sport brown fur ranging from beige to sienna and chestnut to
taupe. Though not ostentatious, instead preferring to keep their wealth hidden,
Drumish Dashers nearly always wear at least one jewel or bauble meant to dazzle
the eye (and occasionally, to flash secret messages to coconspirators). They value
intellectual pursuits, and many train as alchemists, wizards, clerics, or bards.
Drumish Dashers usually have the desert rat or tunnel rat (page 54) heritage.
GOkan hOppEr
Gokan Hoppers dwell throughout western Tian Xia. Born to bound across
desert sands and the Wall of Heaven’s mountain trails, they hop just as much as
they walk, springing like kangaroos on large feet. Desert Hoppers have sandy
coats, while those from the highland caverns have striking white and black
patches. Most wear Gokan-style robes or quilted coats, but others don the
tatterdemalion rags of the Darklands’ caligni.
With twitching whiskers and hands that rub together in excitement, a Gokan
Hopper will readily make you a bet, a deal, or a friend for life—it’s a small
wonder that so many dwell in the Deepmarket below Goka, a cosmopolitan
city where gambling is practically a way of life. Gokan Hoppers chase novelty
whenever possible, believing that fortune smiles on those who search for it.
Gokan Hoppers usually have the desert rat or longsnout rat heritage.
numErian tinkErErs
Bright-eyed and inquisitive, Numerian Tinkerers always look for new
opportunities to occupy themselves: a new project
to dabble with, a discarded object to claim as their
own, or a fresh escape route in case it all goes
bang. They resemble other Avistani ratfolk,
but with patchy, mottled fur, especially at the
head and shoulders. Numerian Tinkerers ardently
scrounge for alien artifacts while also exploring the
fields of alchemy, technology, and surgery. Exposure
to the region’s otherworldly influences has gifted many
with sorcery, too.
Surrounded by slavers, barbarians, nanite clouds,
and malfunctioning robots, Numerian Tinkerers
don’t allow outsiders to approach their warrens
or even their nominal capital, Chitterhome. Instead,
they bring their scavenged finds and expertly restored
artifacts to market in nearby human cities, deflecting
questions about their settlements with a joke and a wink.
Numerian Tinkerers typically have the longsnout rat or
sewer rat heritage.
ulfEn lEapEr
The north’s tough winters have tempered the ysoki who live
there. Big and broad, Ulfen Leapers are larger than other ratfolk,
with brown, gray, or snow-white fur. Named for their deftness at
traversing craggy cliff sides and ship riggings alike, they’re commonly
found along the western coast of Avistan, especially in Kalsgard and
Riddleport. Thanks to their hardiness and love of the sea, they travel
as far east as the Worldwound and as far south as the Shackles.
Ulfen Leapers hold paradoxical reputations, viewed either as brash,
pint-sized brawlers eager to outshine folks twice their size or as shifty
sneaks who vanish like footprints in a blizzard. In either case, it’s best
to look upwards, as these ysoki treat rooftops and ratlines like private
highways and often attack from above.
Ulfen Leapers often have the longsnout rat or snow rat (page 54) heritage.
Ratfolk Settlements
Ysoki congregate at trading cities and
crossroads of all kinds. In Avistan,
ratfolk are somewhat more prevalent
in Druma, the Five Kings Mountains,
and Taldor, as well as port cities like
Absalom and Riddleport. Others
carve out warrens far from human
settlements, such as Numeria’s
Chitterhome. Garundi ysoki congregate
in Katapesh and the Mana Wastes
(where they’re in demand as alchemists
and tinkerers), though many sail as far
as Thuvia, the Shackles, and Vidrian.
Ysoki dwell throughout Casmaron.
They are respected in Kelesh and
well established in the caravan city
of Ular Kel. Diguo-Dashu, the famous
“Empire of Rats,” sprawls below central
Tian Xia; however, ysoki also appear
throughout that continent’s Darklands,
especially in the recently reestablished
Second Ticker (page 54) and the
Deepmarket below Goka.
ANCESTRY
GUIDE
EXPANDED
ANCESTRIES
AND
HERITAGES
NEW
ANCESTRIES
AND
HERITAGES
ANCESTRAL
GEAR
GLOSSARY
AND INDEX
