Catfolk
16
Believed to originate somewhere in central or southern Garund, catfolk—
known amongst themselves as amurruns—live everywhere around the Inner
Sea. Catfolk legends claim that when Golarion was first created, the gods made
catfolk to be guardians tasked with hunting threats to the young world. They
consider their nation of Murraseth in southern Garund their hereditary home,
though the allure of travel appeals to many catfolk. Propelled by their culture
of discovery and bursts of restless energy, they’ve spread across the world since
ancient times, pursuing their love of company and their ancient sense of duty.
CATFOLK OF THE INNER SEA
The ancient catfolk diaspora has established distinct cultures and ethnicities
around the world, though many of them live among other humanoids so
consistently that they rarely form separate settlements.
AskeDHAki
Askedhakis are diaspora catfolk commonly found in Vudra, Jalmeray,
and Nex. They tend to have striped hair or fur and wear light clothing
suitable for travel in oppressive heat and humidity. Most eke out their
living as nomadic traders, but their warriors traditionally hunt
tigers, rakshasas, and other creatures that prey on humanoids. As
a mark of prestige and culture, Askedhakis usually wear the most
expensive jewelry they can afford in a variety of styles. They view
long fangs as an attractive sign of strength, and their artists and artisans
have developed various techniques for enhancing one’s fangs with metal.
Askedhakis typically have the clawed or flexible catfolk heritage and
often take the Saber Teeth ancestry feat.
mitzenki
Mitzenkis are indigenous to the Crown of the World and nearby arctic
regions, such as Iobaria and northern Arcadia. They often appear taller
and brawnier than most other catfolk, and they have either striped or
spotted fur that ranges from white to lightly colored. Their home
conditions mean these catfolk rarely encourage leaving their communities
or traveling abroad, so they like to know everything about their community
and neighbors. Mitzenki armor, weapons, and clothing traditionally feature
leather and prominent bones.
Mitzenkis overwhelmingly have the winter catfolk heritage.
