124
Kitsune Settlements
Though kitsune live all around the
world, two major kitsune settlements
exist on Golarion: Kihime in Tian Xia,
and Angen in the Inner Sea region.
Kihime, the central settlement for
Souko kitsune, is located in the Forest
of Spirits and consists of low, thatched
buildings in an intentionally ancient,
though effective, design. Rather than
torches, star orbs line the streets and
glow with soft foxfire to light the
darkness—legends state that these
star orbs can be unified to cloak
Kihime in illusions and abjurations in
times of peril. Angen, in the Verduran
Forest of Taldor, represents a more
modern and cosmopolitan kitsune
town, with buildings made in a variety
of styles. Angen customs emphasize
unity and collectivism, one of the best
known being the Foxes’ Wedding.
In this yearly festival, which occurs
spontaneously on the first autumn
day that rain falls from a blue sky, all
kitsune who became betrothed in the
last year are considered married. In
celebration, rainbows formed from
the mixed sunlight and raindrops
are enhanced by kitsune illusions,
becoming truly a sight to behold.
1ST LEVEL
FOXFIRE
FEAT 1
KITSUNE
A crack of your tail sparks wisps of blue energy. Choose either electricity or fire when
you gain this feat. You gain a foxfire ranged unarmed attack with a maximum range
of 20 feet. The attack deals 1d4 damage of the chosen type (no ability modifier is
added to the damage roll). Your foxfire attack is in the sling weapon group. Like other
unarmed attacks, you can improve this attack with handwraps of mighty blows.
Special If you are a frozen wind kitsune, your foxfire deals cold damage instead
of electricity or fire.
KITSUNE LORE
FEAT 1
KITSUNE
You excel at navigating social situations and keeping secrets. You gain the trained
proficiency rank in Diplomacy and Deception. If you would automatically become
trained in one of those skills (from your background or class, for example), you instead
become trained in a skill of your choice. You also become trained in Kitsune Lore.
KITSUNE SPELL FAMILIARITY
FEAT 1
KITSUNE
You’ve picked up a few magical tricks. During your daily preparations, choose daze,
forbidding ward, or ghost sound. Until your next daily preparations, you can cast
this cantrip as a divine innate spell at will. A cantrip is heightened to a spell level
equal to half your level rounded up.
RETRACTABLE CLAWS
FEAT 1
KITSUNE
You gain a claw unarmed attack that deals 1d4 slashing damage. Your claws are in
the brawling group and have the agile, finesse, and unarmed traits.
SHAPECHANGER’S INTUITION
FEAT 1
KITSUNE
A lifetime of experience helps you see through disguises. When you come within 10
feet of a creature that is transformed into another form or is Impersonating a specific
creature, the GM rolls a secret Perception check for you to realize that the creature is
transformed, even if you didn’t spend an action to Seek against that creature.
STAR ORB
FEAT 1
KITSUNE
Your magic has crystallized into a spherical stone. You gain a familiar, except it’s a
star orb: a Tiny stone of light Bulk. The familiar has no Speeds and must select
a Speed familiar ability before it can move, animating in a way appropriate
to the chosen Speed and using the statistics of a normal familiar for that
day; when it‘s an immobile stone, it can’t select any familiar or master
abilities that require it to move. It always has the innate surge master
ability (Advanced Player’s Guide 147).
5TH LEVEL
HYBRID FORM
FEAT 5
KITSUNE
When you Change Shape, you retain elements of your kitsune form,
allowing you to speak in a fox form, use kitsune unarmed attacks in a
tailless form, or gain a tail in your tailless form to use abilities that require
one. You can Change Shape to alter the details of your hybrid form without
fully changing into your true form or your alternate form. While in hybrid
form, your foxlike features make it obvious that you aren’t a normal humanoid.
