80
ANCESTRY FEATS
The following feats are available to beastkin characters.
1ST LEVEL
ANIMAL SENSES
FEAT 1
BEASTKIN
You gain one of the following senses available to your inherent animal: darkvision,
low-light vision, or scent (imprecise) 30 feet. You must have low-light vision before
you can gain darkvision with this feat. If your inherent animal doesn’t typically have
a specific type of sense, you can’t gain that sense with this feat.
Special You can select this feat multiple times, choosing a different sense each time.
CRITTER SHAPE
FEAT 1
BEASTKIN
Once per hour, you can use Change Shape to enter a critter shape. While in critter shape,
you gain the effect of a 1st-level pest form, except you can only transform into an animal
matching your inherent animal. You can remain in critter shape for up to 10 minutes,
after which you transform back into your hybrid shape and can’t enter your critter
shape again for 1 hour. You can instead use Change Shape to return to your humanoid or
hybrid shape at any time during the duration of Critter Shape. If your inherent animal is
normally larger than Tiny, you transform into a smaller, younger version of the animal,
such as a Tiny bear cub. If your inherent animal has a fly Speed, you can turn into that
animal (unlike normal for 1st-level pest form), but you still don’t gain a fly Speed.
QUICK CHANGE [free-action]
FEAT 1
BEASTKIN
Trigger You roll initiative.
Your instincts kick in and you take on an aggressive stance.
You use Change Shape to enter your hybrid form or a new
form granted by a beastkin feat.
5TH LEVEL
ANIMALISTIC RESISTANCE
FEAT 5
BEASTKIN
Your animalistic connections help you resist natural afflictions.
You gain a +2 circumstance bonus to saves to resist diseases
and poisons.
GREATER ANIMAL SENSES
FEAT 5
BEASTKIN
Your senses advance to match those of your animal aspect. You gain
one of the following senses available to your inherent animal:
echolocation (imprecise) 30 feet or tremorsense (imprecise)
30 feet. If your inherent animal doesn’t typically have
a specific type of sense, you can’t gain the sense with
this feat.
Special You can select this feat multiple times, either
choosing a different sense or improving an imprecise
sense granted by this feat to a precise sense.
9TH LEVEL
ANIMAL MAGIC
FEAT 9
BEASTKIN
Your shapeshifting grants you a magical connection to the animal world. You can
cast animal messenger, calm emotions (animals only), and speak with animals
Ulfen Beastkin
Unlike most people of Golarion,
Ulfen do not see a werecreature’s
affliction as a curse, and this mindset
extends to beastkin. Most Ulfen see
a werecreature or beastkin’s abilities
as a badge of honor. Ulfen warriors
take pride in fighting alongside
beastkin, especially those whose
inherent animals are from native
Ulfen lands such as bearkin, lynxkin,
and wolfkin. Groups of warriors that
include beastkin often offer prayers
to Yrmidar the Old Bear, a werebear
frost giant deity of camaraderie,
shipbuilders, and the hunt.
During full moons, Ulfen
settlements are particularly
accommodating for werecreatures
who struggle with the moon’s curse.
These settlements build longhouses
barred with silver and filled with food
to satisfy the voracious appetites of a
ferocious werecreature.
