8
Exemplars of poise, grace, and magnificence, aasimars are beloved throughout
the Inner Sea and beyond. These mortal beings are shaped by incredible
celestial power and are often greeted as omens of good fortune for the
communities they’re born into. As adults, many aasimars gravitate towards
noble and heroic principles, often finding success as renowned artists, devout
clergy, and resplendent heroes. A celestial tether holds an aasimar’s soul close,
gently pulling them towards celestial ideals. Aasimars feel subtle urges to root
out evil, aid the downtrodden, and amend society’s broken promises. This
pull is not a guarantee for a life of good, however, and many aasimars crack
under the pressure put upon them. These aasimars might prefer to escape the
expectations of their lives and choose to live in solitude. In other cases, an
aasimar might turn to a life of evil, either as a backlash for failing to live up to
these societal pressures or as a rejection of their own celestial nature.
Physically, an aasimar’s appearance greatly resembles others of their
ancestry, though their celestial influence can visibly manifest in nearly
imperceptible to substantial cosmetic differences. Common manifestations
include pearlescent teeth, golden hair, lyrical voices, floral scents, and shining
features. More radical manifestations can include additional eyes, bodies
covered in soft down feathers, a voice that sounds akin to several people
speaking in unison, or heads with more than a single face. These differences
are far less common and, for some, unnerving; many would consider these
aasimars monstrous if not for their natural aura of holiness.
AASIMARS OF THE INNER SEA
Aasimars possess a natural radiance—the legacy left by their celestial
origins—that suffuses the world around them. These supernatural qualities
push people to perceive aasimars as not just more beautiful than the average
person, but also smarter, funnier, stronger, and more naturally gifted. The
degree of truth to these perceptions varies, but that doesn’t stop most from
transfixing on aasimars’ inherent magnificence, as they captivate those
around them whether they intend to or not. Though many aasimars are
conventionally beautiful, even aasimars with strange and unusual
features are perceived as wondrous to behold, regardless of any
bizarre celestial manifestations.
Many aasimar lineages are attributed to liaisons
between marvelous celestials and heroic or
virtuous mortals, but rarely do such trysts
result in an aasimar child. Aasimar births
may arise from any celestial influence.
A childless couple praying for an
heir, a conjurer frequenting in celestial dealings, or a champion wielding a
holy sword—the celestial spark is entirely unknowable. Producing aasimar
offspring is never guaranteed, and even an aasimar’s own children are unlikely
to inherit their parent’s celestial birthright.
The results of a dwarf inheriting the celestial legacy are magnificent to
behold. Aasimar dwarves’ skin might shine like polished metal, and their
immaculately groomed beards might weave impossible patterns. Even as
children, they might speak with the wisdom of a thousand lifetimes. Aasimar
dwarves tend to be serious-minded, and many choose to abstain from alcohol
and frivolous pursuits unless it benefits the greater community. Dwarves
believe that Torag himself forges each aasimar dwarf, imbuing them with his
zeal. Lawbringers are the most common aasimars among dwarves, and their
desire for order aligns well with regimented dwarven culture.
Aasimar
