20
Changelings are the children of the monstrous crones known as hags; they
received their name from their hag mothers’ habit of stealing babies and
leaving changelings behind in the empty cradles. While some changelings are
left as foundlings or even given as gifts to hopeful couples, the changeling tale
of abduction permeates Golarion’s cultures for all-too-real reasons. Raised
by parents possibly unaware of their nature, a young changeling often grows
up in uncertainty and isolation. Some changelings might be shunned for their
eccentricities, and many push others away for not understanding their feelings
and desires. However, those who manage to get close to a changeling will find
an intensely dedicated friend.
Changelings choose their paths in life as anybody might, but regardless of
ancestry, the most common influence among changelings is ostracism.
Even changelings who receive unconditional love and acceptance
usually experience subconscious feelings of unbelonging. Rare is the
changeling who feels entirely at home among their community and
peers; many leave their homes when the opportunity for travel or
adventure comes, searching for somewhere they can fit in on their
own terms. Perhaps for related reasons, changelings that work
to reject their mothers’ influence often prove the most accepting
of others and forgiving to a fault; combined with a desperate
desire for emotional intimacy, this accommodating nature has
led more than one changeling to be taken advantage of by a “friend”
they can’t seem to stop forgiving. Many other changelings, whether
by their nature or from being betrayed one too many times, have
the opposite mentality and hold grudges to the bitter end.
Changelings can go through a life-defining experience
known as the Call. When changelings reach a certain age,
unless their hag mother was slain or has abandoned them
entirely, they feel a psychic pull as their mother tempts
them into becoming a hag. While changelings can resist
the Call, its gnawing presence causes many to suffer
long-term mental strain and emotional instability.
As a result, however, changelings who avoid the Call
frequently develop fierce willpower.
The Call can start as early as childhood, but for
most changelings, it comes at the cusp of adulthood. Callow
mays receive it through the whisper of leaves, brine mays hear it in the
splash of surf, and moon mays feel it in the shimmer of moonlight.
The experience blends wanderlust with a desperate desire to find new
horizons and unravel the world’s mysteries, and it sharpens the longing
for community and understanding that most changelings experienced
throughout their youth. While the Call comes occasionally as an imperative,
hags are cunning enough to know that a changeling brought forcibly to heel
likely won’t submit to the covenant ritual. As a result, the Call tempts more
than it commands, feeling like a far-off wonder awaiting discovery.
The grand temptation, as folklore has labeled it, lies at the far end of
the Call, when the changeling finally comes face-to-face with their mother.
The hag often prepares for this moment by adopting a harmless facade,
presenting herself as a kindly, old woman eager to meet her lost child.
Through conversation or prior divinations, the hag intuits the changeling’s
emotional vulnerabilities, using manipulation and deception to persuade
them to submit to their inner spite and hatred. When the changeling is
ready, the hag brings them to her coven.
Changeling
