Lizardfolk
44
Lizardfolk—also known as iruxi—are one of Golarion’s most storied ancestries,
thanks in part to their perpetual ability to adjust to new environments. Along
with this adaptability, their skill as astronomers and survivalists and their
oral traditions dating back millennia have kept lizardfolk relevant throughout
Golarion’s history on a global scale.
LIZARDFOLK OF GOLARION
Outsiders often don’t perceive the finer subtleties of iruxi culture. Many humans
have trouble even telling individuals apart, relying on only obvious details like
scale color and fin size. In truth, iruxi civilization is rich and varied with dozens
of ethnicities across Golarion—including several in the Inner Sea region.
eSSari
When most Avistani think of lizardfolk, they picture Essaris. Immediately
identifiable by the dorsal fins that start atop their heads, Essaris tend to
have scales of mottled dark green or blue that pale with age. Primarily
swamp-dwellers, Essaris eschew unnecessary clothing, opting for simple
tabards, loincloths, arm wraps, and cloaks. They live across Avistan, especially in
the west, though they’ve lost much of their historic territory to other ancestries.
Family trees are vital to Essari culture. Every Essari can recite their clan lineage,
and the bones of their precursors likely fortified the walls of their childhood
home. Even the most nontraditional Essari has a spiritual connection to their
ancestors that their closest companions might never suspect—until it saves
their lives. Most Essaris harbor suspicions of those from New Thassilon, as the
runelords and their giant servitors are dread figures in Essari lore.
Essaris typically take the frilled or wetlander lizardfolk heritage.
iKeleK
At first glance, Ikelek iruxi resemble their Essari neighbors. Instead of a
fin, Ikeleks typically have dorsal spines or no adornment at all, and their
duller, pebbled scales tend toward browns and grays amid olive greens.
Their reach across Golarion isn’t as broad, mainly concentrated among
the waterways and forests of the Broken Lands and Shining Kingdoms.
Ikelek architecture and crafts favor using glass, made from colored sand
acquired in trade with their desert kin to the east, over bone. They’re
superlative javelin throwers, and some take up archery.
Battling the pollutants and monsters that wash down from the
Eye of Dread has made Ikeleks revere the druidic arts and nature
deities like Gozreh. However, isolated settlements sometimes fall
under the sway of other forces, with some in the wilds of the River
Kingdoms worshipping demons or crueler patrons.
Ikeleks often take the cloudleaper or woodstalker
lizardfolk heritage.
Sand Brethren
The deserts of northern Garund and western
Casmaron house lizardfolk clans such as
the armor-scaled Hazairs, blood-spewing
Shaikims, dune-surfing Barrukas, and
camouflaged Nazegs—united by their
love of the hot sands, independence,
and privacy. Many have adopted the
heat-resistant cloaks and head wraps of
