113
113
Sylph Adventurers
Sylphs who become adventurers
often have backgrounds as acrobats,
entertainers, nomads, and scouts.
Traveling beneath an open sky or
exploring the highest mountains is
irresistible, and this drive to always
reach for the sky drives many to pursue
a life of adventuring. Sylph champions
are most often liberators, and clerics
typically serve gods of air such as Hei
Feng or the elemental lords of air. Many
sylphs are sorcerers with draconic or
elemental bloodlines or wizards that
focus on elemental magic.
the wind blows, especially as many have a great love for subterfuge and
trickery, placing them at odds with nearly all laws and social norms.
Overall, they tend toward neutrality, pursuing the most expedient avenues
toward accomplishing their goals, regardless of legality.
Sylphs often find themselves drawn toward the mysteries of secretive
cults, worshipping outsider demigods like the elemental lords of air
Hshurha and Ranginori, or the empyreal lords of detectives and vigilance
Zohls or Tanagaar. Those who worship conventional deities tend to favor
gods of travel like Desna, gods of secrets such as Norgorber, or the obvious
gods of air, Gozreh and Hei Feng.
sYlPhs in the inner sea
Sylph populations are highest in areas with concentrations of elemental
energy and eternal or regular storms. Many sylphs are born in the deserts of
Osirion where windstorms called khamsins, believed to be caused by warring
elementals, bury entire cities. Sylph births are influenced among all ancestries
in Ustalav by the mistgales, in Katapesh by the great Trackless Storm, and in
northwestern Garund by the Eye of Abendego. Stormsoul sylphs are born
in Katapesh and Nex near the Lightning Stones, menhirs that range across
the southern reaches of the Barrier Wall. The stones are said to mark the site
of battles between air and earth elementals, and to this day, they still attract
elemental attention.
While sylph dwarves are uncommon, they’re less unusual than most
non-dwarves believe. They can be found among the Mbe’ke and
Taralu dwarves in the Mwangi Expanse and are regarded
in those cultures as blessings from cloud dragons; indeed,
many have cloud dragon ancestors. Smokesoul sylphs live
among the Pahmet dwarves of the Osirion Desert. Sylph
dwarves often grow wispy, insubstantial beards of cloud
or mist, or beards streaked with lightning and crackling
with static.
Culture and traditions blend particularly seamlessly for
sylph elves, allowing them to feel more
at home among other elves. Sylph elves
have even longer ears than their non-geniekin brethren and tend
to have eyes that glow with colors of the sky or flicker with the
power of the storm.
 Sylph gnomes are just as curious as other gnomes and
tend to have less trouble handling the Bleaching. Their
bright, sky-colored hair, eyes, and skin tones don’t
stand out quite as much among the outlandish
coloration of their gnome kindred, and they
might be mistaken for chameleon gnomes early in life before it
becomes clear that their colorations can’t shift.
Sylph goblins tend to leap from cliffs and other high
places to feel the winds as they fall. Those who survive
long enough earn deep respect from their fellow goblins
for their aerial powers.
The Chelaxian city of Corentyn, one of the largest
halfling settlements in the Inner Sea, also has the
highest concentration of sylph halflings. Typically
born in families of free halflings, these sylphs
often become involved with the city’s trade and
crime. Sylph halflings are especially quick and
nimble, with thin, wispy fingers and a light
layer of downy feathers on their cheeks, ears, and feet.
Sylph humans often have swirling air patterns on their skin
from birth, making them easy to identify early on. The largest
ANCESTRY
GUIDE
EXPANDED
ANCESTRIES
AND
HERITAGES
NEW
ANCESTRIES
AND
HERITAGES
ANCESTRAL
GEAR
GLOSSARY
AND INDEX
