49
khuldar
Even sun-baked deserts contain hidden orc holds. Entirely nocturnal, Khuldar
orcs disguise their collapsible wooden homes under mounds of sand to escape the
harsh light of day. Young Khuldars prove themselves by standing watch during
the day while the remainder of the hold sleeps. Many reside in Belkzen’s Dirt
Sea, a massive expanse of fine silt. They create large, innovative barges pulled by
beasts or giants to traverse the sunken terrain.
Khuldars most often have the badlands or grave orc heritage.
matanji
The jungle holds no secrets for rain orcs. Matanjis defend their territory from the
demons of the Mwangi Expanse, their ancestral enemies. They carve protective
runes in trees to mark their territories; more extreme holds display macabre
trophies from defeated fiends. Other Mwangi residents greatly respect Matanjis
for their fiend-hunting prowess, and Mualijae elves often ally with
them against fiendish cults and other nefarious forces.
Matanjis often cover their bodies with intricate warding
tattoos. They show off their strength in intense martial dances
performed by small groups. Completing a dance with passion
and precision gains respect for the entire group.
Matanjis mostly have the hold-scarred or rainfall
orc heritage.
namathkar
Solitary orcs are highly rare, especially on the plains. Utterly
communal, the Namathkar orcs of the Hold of Belkzen and
the plains beyond are most comfortable when surrounded by
those they trust. Their skin tones range from dazzling greens to
earthy browns, and they dress in simple clothing that doesn’t hinder them
in combat, leaving them ready to fight at a moment’s notice.
Namathkars are the most populous orc ethnicity in Avistan. As scions of
the orc armies that clashed most with neighboring nations, they have fraught
relationships and reputations. However, they’ve proven most likely to
peaceably interact with other cultures, and the transformation of the orc
city of Urgir into a trading hub has facilitated this cooperation.
Namathkars often have the badlands or hold-scarred orc heritage.
nanut
The biting cold of Golarion’s frozen corners shapes the lives of Nanuts,
also known as arctic orcs. Most reside in the Land of the Linnorm
Kings, but they find homes in all arctic realms. Their skin tones range
from cold greens and frosty blues to dark purples, and they dress in
dyed animal furs. Nanut orcs hibernate during the times of year when
the sun never sets; when it finally does, they return to activity.
Living in large, nonmonogamous family units, Nanuts teach
their children to hunt communally. They’re less likely to resort
to interpersonal violence than other orcs, believing their energy too
precious to waste. Nanut orcs instead prove their dominance through
hunting—orcs who brave the cold and best the creatures of the arctic to
provide for their kin prove both their strength and value to their people.
Nanuts largely have the battle-ready or winter orc heritage.
ORC HERITAGES
The following heritages are available to orcs.
BattlE-rEady Orc
You descend from a line of terrifying battlefield commanders. You become
trained in Intimidation, and you gain the Intimidating Glare skill feat.
Orc Settlements
Orc settlements rapidly rise and fall,
but a few have stood the test of time.
Garaguum: In the Darklands, orcs
inhabit a ruin built by their ancestors:
the final battleground of their people’s
last stand against the dwarf invaders.
Scarwall: When the curse lifted from
this haunted castle within the Hold of
Belkzen, the local orc holds rushed to
make their claim. The castle’s lingering
magic warped the minds and bodies of
the orcs, who now call themselves the
Spirit Skull Hold.
ANCESTRY
GUIDE
EXPANDED
ANCESTRIES
AND
HERITAGES
NEW
ANCESTRIES
AND
HERITAGES
ANCESTRAL
GEAR
GLOSSARY
AND INDEX
