128
appoint itself guardian, they pursue this task with remarkable dedication.
It takes a tremendous magical mystery or discovery to shake a sprite’s vigil.
grigs
Grigs are artistic, musical, and passionate sprites with the hind body of a
cricket. They often use their legs as stringed instruments, fiddling along with
their songs in the same way most folk might clap their hands or snap their
fingers. Cunning and courageous, grigs are always ready to protect those they
love, and even strangers, from the forces of evil, but they tend to get themselves
into trouble by biting off more than they can chew. Thus, adventuring with
comrades suits a grig well, as friends can help them overcome otherwise
unbeatable odds. Grigs love to collect art objects of all kinds, particularly
those with bright colors and vibrant images, decorating their homes with
wondrous mementos of their journeys and adventures. Grigs usually make
their homes and villages in areas of incredible natural beauty, though they
are just as often out exploring and seeking new wonders away from home.
Melixies
While most sprites have insectile wings, melixies are closer to insects than
other sprites, sharing additional physical qualities—usually with bees, but
sometimes with butterflies, moths, ladybugs, or other beetles. Melixies have
an incredibly strong sweet tooth, guzzling honey, nectar, and sugar at every
opportunity. These tiny sugar collectors occasionally leave such delicacies
uneaten long enough to use them as ingredients to create some of the world’s
finest miniature desserts. When not indulging, they’re incredibly industrious,
both at innovative tasks other sprites enjoy, like inventing and building new
things, and at repetitive tasks most others find odious, such as cleaning.
Melixies enjoy dancing over all other leisure activities and are particularly
likely to learn a dancelike Sylvan sign language they call Melisylvan.
nYkteras
Nykteras, or bat sprites, are gentle and friendly sprites known for their
especially affectionate, sharing, and caring nature. Nyktera appearance varies
as much as the various species of bats. Some look like insectivorous microbats,
while others resemble larger, fruit-eating megabats
such as flying foxes. Even more may resemble
nectar-eating bats, and even blood-drinking
varieties. Nykteras live wherever bats are found,
and they tend to congregate near areas with bats
similar to their own appearance. Notably, a population
of white nykteras from Arcadia, who share features
with an Arcadian white bat species, has given birth to
the highest number of Wingless anywhere in Golarion.
This has lead some to speculate they’ve been blessed by the gods.
Nykteras have an incredible sense of hospitality and are willing to share
food with any in need; even a nyktera’s greatest enemy might be able to
find a reprieve from battle by invoking the bat sprite’s hospitality.
Pixies
Pixies are hyperactive and curious tricksters, never slowing down for a
moment and flitting from one topic or scheme to another. Pixies love
pranks, and they often compete with draxies over who make the better
pranksters. While they lack draxies’ patience to perfect a trap over the
long term, pixies are improvisational prank maestros. Pixie pranks
are typically intended to reveal an overlooked truth, whether by
bringing the prideful down to size or matchmaking two people
secretly in love with each other. Larger than any other type of sprite,
Wingless pixies can sometimes pass for halflings if they disguise their
Tiny PCs
PCs are typically Small or Medium size,
but most sprite PCs are Tiny instead!
Being Tiny comes with its own set of
rules about space and reach. Your Tiny
sprite can enter another creature’s
space, which is important because your
melee Strikes typically have no reach,
meaning you must enter their space to
attack them. Like other Tiny creatures,
you don’t automatically receive lesser
cover from being in a larger creature’s
space, but circumstances might allow
you to Take Cover. You can purchase
weapons, armor, and other items for
your size with the same statistics
as normal gear, except that melee
weapons have a reach of 0 for you (or
a reach 5 feet shorter than normal if
they have the reach trait). Remember to
adjust the Bulk of items and your Bulk
limit for Tiny size (Core Rulebook 295).
