58
UNCANNY AGILITY
FEAT 1
TENGU
You have near-supernatural poise that lets you move swiftly across the most
unsteady surfaces. You gain the Steady Balance skill feat. You can Step into difficult
terrain caused by uneven ground, such as a rocky field or hilly incline.
WAXED FEATHERS
FEAT 1
TENGU
Prerequisites wavediver tengu heritage
Your feathers are coated in a waxy substance that repels water. You gain a +1
circumstance bonus to saving throws against effects that have the water trait. So
long as you’re in a dry place, you can spend one action to shake off any water that
clings to your clothing and feathers to instantly become dry.
5TH LEVEL
DOGFANG BITE
FEAT 5
TENGU
Prerequisites dogtooth tengu heritage
You can swing your beak to slash your foes when piercing attacks won’t do. Your
beak unarmed attack gains the versatile S weapon trait.
MAGPIE SNATCH [two-actions]
FEAT 5
TENGU
You move quickly, snatching a shiny item that catches your eye. Stride twice, and
you can Interact to grab an unattended object at any point during your movement.
TENGU FEATHER FAN
FEAT 5
TENGU
You’ve learned to bind some of your feathers together into a fan to
focus your ancestral magic. You gain a tengu feather fan: a magic
item of light Bulk with a level equal to your level and the evocation
and primal traits. You (and only you) can use the tengu feather fan to
cast tengu magic. If your fan is lost or destroyed, you can create a
replacement during your daily preparations; if you do so, your previous
fan falls apart into mundane feathers. Further feats might grant you
additional activations of your tengu feather fan, but you can never have
more than three activations per day, no matter how many such feats you have.
The DC for spells you cast with your tengu feather fan is your class DC or
spell DC, whichever is higher.
You can cast the 1st-level gust of wind spell by activating your tengu
feather fan.
Activate Interact; Frequency once per day; Effect You cast one
of the spells contained in your tengu feather fan. Activating
the fan takes the spell’s normal number of actions. You can
also Activate the fan to cast a cantrip you’ve gained from a
heritage or ancestry feat; this activation doesn’t count against
the fan’s uses per day.
9TH LEVEL
WIND GOD’S FAN
FEAT 9
TENGU
Prerequisites Tengu Feather Fan
Your fan can stir up even more powerful winds. You
can Activate your tengu feather fan one additional
time per day. Add the 3rd-level wall of wind spell to
the spells contained within your fan.
Tengu Bottles
Tengu tend to have a healthy respect
for gods that rule over storms and
air—or at least, a healthy fear. One
ancestral custom that has caught on
among other sailors is the tengu bottle:
a decorated gourd or other container
filled with an offering for the gods,
kept on ships and thrown overboard
in the event of dire weather. Tengu
bottles most often contain fine alcohol
to appease the fury of Hei Feng or
Besmara; crew puncture the bottles to
release these offerings before throwing
them into the waters.
