30
NOSOI’S MASK
FEAT 1
DUSKWALKER
Prerequisites trained in Crafting
Many psychopomps wear masks when dealing with the living, and many cultures
believe that seeing an unmasked psychopomp’s face invites death. You are trained
in Intimidation and gain the Intimidating Glare skill feat. If you were already trained
in Intimidation (from your background or class, for example), you instead become
trained in a skill of your choice. You also know how to make masks like those worn
by psychopomps, a process that takes 1 hour and 1 sp of appropriate material. If you
instead pay 50 gp for a splendid psychopomp mask, the mask grants you a +1 item
bonus to Intimidation while you are wearing it. Its usage is worn (mask).
VANTH’S WEAPON FAMILIARITY
FEAT 1
DUSKWALKER
You seek to emulate vanth reapers’ fighting styles. You are trained with bo staves,
longbows, composite longbows, scythes, and staves.
WILLING DEATH [reaction]
FEAT 1
DUSKWALKER
Frequency once per day
Trigger An ally within 30 feet takes damage that would otherwise reduce them to 0
Hit Points and give them the dying condition.
Once, you died because you valued someone else’s life above your own; just as then,
you protect an ally by suffering in their stead. Reduce the damage the triggering
ally would take by 1 + your level. You redirect this damage to yourself, but your
immunities, weaknesses, resistances, and so on don’t apply. You aren’t subject to
any conditions or other effects from whatever damaged your ally (such as poison
from a venomous bite)—your ally is still subject to those effects even if you redirect
all of the triggering damage to yourself. If the redirected damage prevents the
ally from being reduced to 0 Hit Points, they remain conscious and don’t gain the
dying condition.
Special You can select this feat only at 1st level, and you can’t retrain into or out
of this feat.
5TH LEVEL
SHOKI’S ARGUMENT
FEAT 5
DUSKWALKER
You feel a connection to shokis, the rambling collectors of wayward souls, and
might have found old texts written by one. You are trained in Diplomacy. If
you were already trained in Diplomacy (from your background or class, for
example), you instead become trained in a skill of your choice. You can
also cast disrupt undead as a divine innate cantrip at will. A cantrip is
heightened to a spell level equal to half your level rounded up.
VANTH’S WEAPON EXECUTION
FEAT 5
DUSKWALKER
Prerequisites Vanth’s Weapon Familiarity
You’ve trained in the finer points of dealing death. Whenever
you critically hit using a bo staff, longbow, composite longbow, scythe, or
staff, you apply the weapon’s critical specialization effect.
9TH LEVEL
CATRINA’S PRESENCE
FEAT 9
DUSKWALKER
You’ve adopted the calming presence of catrinas, the festive dead; you
might have even danced with a catrina yourself! So long as you are visibly
Duskwalker Adventurers
Duskwalkers become adventurers most
often out of some sense of misplaced
destiny. While duskwalkers have free
will, they also feel the pressure to
make good use of their reincarnation.
Many duskwalkers choose to study the
otherworldly arts and become wizards
or bards. Duskwalkers are also more
concerned than most with matters of
the soul, commonly becoming clerics,
champions, and monks. Duskwalkers
most often come from the acolyte,
fortune teller, hermit, martial disciple,
and scholar backgrounds.
