63
VELSTRAC MAGIC
FEAT 9
TIEFLING
Prerequisites Shackleborn
You know there’s so much more to sensation than whips and chains—but whips
and chains also have their place. You can cast telekinetic maneuver and web once
per day each as 2nd-level divine innate spells; in both cases, the spells manifest
shadowy chains rather than their usual visual signifiers.
13TH LEVEL
FINEST TRICK
FEAT 13
TIEFLING
Prerequisites Devil in Plain Sight
Many fiends—rakshasa rajas and demonic succubi most famously—can take on
the forms of others. With practice, you can do the same. When you use Devil in
Plain Sight, you can alter your appearance to match a generic member of your base
ancestry, rather than one that’s obviously you without your tieflings features. In
addition, you can imitate a specific person’s appearance (of any ancestry of the
same size and kind as your base
ancestry, typically a humanoid
for most ancestries) if you
consume a bit of their blood, a
lock of their hair, or appropriate
equivalents as part of the action.
You still must know what the creature
looks like, and you must be aware that the
consumed portion comes from their body.
17TH LEVEL
FINAL FORM [three-actions]
FEAT 17
CONCENTRATE
DIVINE
EVOCATION
MORPH
TIEFLING
TRANSMUTATION
Frequency once per day
You embrace your monstrous blood and make it your own,
screaming out to the heavens and hells alike in rage, pain,
and defiance. Reality buckles and twists under your sudden
power—each tiefling has a unique transformation, but it might
include sulfurous flames, choruses of shrieks, or twisting,
serpentine lightning. Every creature within 10 feet of
you is deafened and dazzled for 1 round unless they
succeed at a Fortitude save using your class DC or
spell DC, whichever is higher. Your final form has
the effects of divine vessel for a deity that shares
an alignment with your fiendish lineage. Your
final form resembles a creature from your
fiendish lineage, and you remain in that form
for 1 minute. While in your final form, you can
cast chilling darkness, fireball, and lightning bolt
as 6th-level divine innate spells, once each per use
of this feat.
When you emerge from your final form, you become
drained 3. In addition, if you have this feat, you gain weakness 10
to good even when not in your final form, and you take good damage even if
you aren’t evil.
Special At the GM’s discretion, the specific elements of this feat can be
adjusted to better fit the tiefling’s lineage—for example, a GM might decide
that a particular beastbrood tiefling could cast a 6th-level phantasmal
killer instead of fireball.
Abandoned by Faith
Few tieflings have positive relationships
with the faiths of good-aligned deities.
Sometimes this friction stems from
ignorance; experienced priests might
know to differentiate a tiefling from
a demon, but a random lay follower
might not. Sometimes it’s just a clash of
perspectives—tieflings are more likely
to have seen the kind of darkness that
makes holy idealism look laughable.
Other reasons stem not from divine
limitations but earthly ones, such as
overstretched churches failing tieflings
in need due to a lack of resources.
ANCESTRY
GUIDE
EXPANDED
ANCESTRIES
AND
HERITAGES
NEW
ANCESTRIES
AND
HERITAGES
ANCESTRAL
GEAR
GLOSSARY
AND INDEX
