9
Aasimar elves represent the height of artistry, possessing impossible grace
and poise. Azatas and elves have a long history of intermingling, and their
musetouched offspring are universally celebrated. Their hair gently moves to
its own breeze and their skin appears painted on, with visible brushstrokes
covering their bodies.
Due to their First World origins, aasimar gnomes are a rare
sight. They often have small, feathered vestigial wings, or bright,
wildly colored hair and eyes that actively sparkle at a glance.
Their halos shine brightest when they laugh, and their speaking
voices are accompanied by harps, flutes, and horns. Poetry
pours effortlessly from their lips, all their words carrying
seamless rhythm and cadence.
Many are surprised to discover that there are
aasimar goblins, whose existence proves that
goblins are worth the notice of the beautiful and
powerful celestials. The celestial inheritance mixing
with goblin physiology often results in extreme physical
expressions. They may have eyes on the roofs of their mouths,
their songs may sound like they are sung by a chorus of angels, or
they may appear to be eternally shrouded in heatless flames.
Celestials hold halflings in special regard. While some ancestries
must be shepherded, halflings are more likely to value music, food,
and community. Idyllkin aasimars appear often among halfling
communities, as agathions resonate with halflings’ contentedness.
An aasimar halfling may smell like a different dessert depending on
their mood, be covered in thick lamb’s wool, or grow long rabbit
ears as an expression of their celestial heritage.
Humans have a long history of beseeching celestials in times of
need. In Thuvia, angelic peris work alongside human champions
to quell demonic div insurrections. In Mendev, angels spent
lifetimes battling alongside mortals against demonic hordes. In
Tianjing, outside the Inner Sea, a host of quartered celestials
changed the fabric of a nation after defending it from vile
qlippoth forces. Humans are captivated by aasimars, as they
serve as a reminder that good will always triumph over evil.
AASIMAR FEATS
The following ancestry feats are available to aasimars.
1ST LEVEL
EMBERKIN
FEAT 1
AASIMAR
LINEAGE
A peri’s roaring spirit burns in your soul. Peris engage in constant struggle to
right the wrongs of their fallen forebears, and that struggle has been passed
on to you. You have a direct impulse to right wrongs and better the world. You
gain a +1 circumstance bonus to saving throws against fire effects, and your
perception is unaffected by non-magical flames, fog and smoke.
IDYLLKIN
FEAT 1
AASIMAR
LINEAGE
Your wild, unique features betray your agathion birthright. Serene celestials
from the plane of Nirvana, agathions seek the peaceful path, ensuring a
better world for all to coexist. Your halcyon demeanor leads you to search
for peaceful resolution to conflict. You gain the trained proficiency rank in
Nature. If you would automatically become trained in Nature (from your
background or class, for example), you instead become trained in a skill of
your choice. You know the Sylvan language and gain the Natural Medicine skill feat.
Aasimar Adventurers
Aasimars are often revered from
birth, and communities often ensure
that these blessed children are given
every advantage to pursue their divine
destiny. Pampered aasimars may
have the artist, emissary, entertainer,
or noble background. Aasimars
pursuing virtuous ends may have the
acolyte, detective, or field medic
backgrounds. Aasimars often
devote themselves to faith,
becoming champions or clerics.
Artistic aasimars excel as bards.
ANCESTRY
GUIDE
EXPANDED
ANCESTRIES
AND
HERITAGES
NEW
ANCESTRIES
AND
HERITAGES
ANCESTRAL
GEAR
GLOSSARY
AND INDEX
