75
APHORITES OF THE INNER SEA
Aphorites originally served as linguists, emissaries, and liaisons between the
axiomites and other mortal groups. Axiomites sent small contingents to bastions
of order in the Inner Sea region, like Nantambu and Taldor. These aphorites’
legacies intertwined with those of their host communities, and aphorites of all
ancestries are more likely to be born in these regions. Aphorites can also arise
near smaller-scale loci of order, like solstice altars, locations of significant truces
or agreements, industrial sites, and convergences of axiomatic ley lines.
Axis’s touch tends to accentuate dwarves’ already-angular facial features, as
well as mark their skin with runic or other culturally significant shapes. Aphorite
dwarves arise most in the Five Kings Mountains and Rahadoum, as well as
among the Pahmet and Paraheen peoples (of Osirion and Qadira, respectively).
Aphorite elves’ large pupils shine with opalescent lines and symbols when
viewed at certain angles, and their features typically attune to their local
environments in a matter of days. Aphorite elves include the mithral-skinned
elves of Jinin.
Aphorite gnomes’ hair trends toward geometric shapes, often growing
in multicolored and starkly delineated strands. When their emotions rise,
pulsing symbols manifest on their skin or drift out with their breath.
Axis’s orderly nature manifests in goblins through more durable,
metallic-sheened teeth and nails. Aphorite goblins are often a
head taller than their peers, with less stout proportions.
They often appear in the cities of Absalom and
Magnimar, as well as the nation of Isger.
Aphorite halflings’ eyes twinkle with metallic flecks. Their feet
develop thicker calluses in right-angled patterns and are topped
by uniform-length hair that rarely tangles. Aphorite halflings seem
to be born once every three generations, or every six in Cheliax.
The bodies of aphorite humans trend toward extreme symmetry:
moles, vein patterns, wrinkles, and even fingerprints on one side have
perfectly mirrored partners on the other.
Aphorite cUstoms
Though aphorites come from myriad backgrounds and cultures, a few
practices have spread among aphorites throughout the Inner Sea region.
Some aphorites use thin metal rods to mark progress toward a long-term
goal. Working diligently on such a project is called carving the hours, since
after an hour’s labor, the worker makes a horizontal notch in the rod,
assesses their progress, and considers how to proceed. Rest is marked with
vertical lines. The rods are typically incorporated into the task’s end result.
Dustware is any handmade object that incorporates an aphorite’s crystalline
dust, from shimmering enameled dishes to music penned in crystalline ink.
Dustware gifts are signs of immense respect, given to recognize an impressive
achievement or express heartfelt thanks.
Some aphorites connect the symbols that appear on their bodies with
piercings, tattoos, or other less permanent ornamentation. The sequence of
symbols can be purely aesthetic or reflect a personal belief or conviction.
Aphorites often live, love, or work in groups of three, originally in imitation
of an efficiency-minded axiomite organizational practice. Contemporary
trinities leave these roots behind, though the phrases “achieved by the Three”
or “spoken by the Three” still indicate a strong agreement or commitment.
Aphorite (Uncommon heritAge)
You were born with a connection to Axis, the Plane of Law. You gain the
aphorite trait, in addition to the traits from your ancestry. You also gain
low-light vision, or you gain darkvision if your ancestry already has
low-light vision. You can choose from aphorite feats and feats from your
ancestry whenever you gain an ancestry feat.
Aphorite Adventurers
Many aphorites share backgrounds in
the trades. Artisans and tinkers all find
fulfillment in the intricacies of their
work. Some aphorites instead navigate
laws and other social structures; these
might work within the legal system as
barristers or emissaries. Acrobat and
scout aphorites enjoy the interplay
of mind and muscle, as do hunters,
martial disciples, and warriors. The
aphorite eye for detail leads many to
become investigators APG or rangers.
Similar faculties lead them to become
alchemists, oracles APG, or wizards.
ANCESTRY
GUIDE
EXPANDED
ANCESTRIES
AND
HERITAGES
NEW
ANCESTRIES
AND
HERITAGES
ANCESTRAL
GEAR
GLOSSARY
AND INDEX
