Sylphs are an intense and lively people, flighty and tempestuous. These planar scions have
kinship to beings of elemental air such as djinn, invisible stalkers, and cloud dragons.
Sylph
112
112
Sylphs enjoying following their own tempos, shifting
between wild energy that draws all eyes to embodying
the spirit of unseen breezes that slip away without note.
They often build their identities around their perceived
personal connection to the element of air, relating
to a gentle breeze, a sudden flash of lightning, or an
uncontrollable storm.
Some sylphs are born with a connection to an
extremely focused aspect of elemental air, such as
smoke, storms, or toxic gas. While it does happen, a
child is rarely born with a lineage that differs from
their parents’, as geniekin typically pass these unusual
gifts on to their offspring. Lineages can manifest in
sylph children as a result of where they’re born, such
as when stormsoul sylphs are birthed in regions prone
to tornadoes or windstorms. A lineage can
also reflect a sylph’s elemental heritage
like in smokesoul sylphs, who
often descend from belkers.
Fumesoul sylphs, on the other
hand, are associated with
poisonous
and
otherwise
unbreathable gases.
You Might...
• Relate your identity with the
element of air and believe the wind
and storms represent core aspects
of your personality.
• Enjoy traveling and exploring high, secluded places
where you can observe the world beneath you.
• Take pride in your elemental lineage, especially
if you believe you are related to the gregarious
djinn viziers.
others ProbablY...
• Look to you as an authority on air magic or the
elemental Plane of Air.
• Believe you easily flow through all aspects of
society, while listening to those around you.
• Assume you must be airheaded or capricious,
prone to irresponsible behavior without regard
for consequence.
PhYsical descriPtion
Like all geniekin, sylphs are recognizable as members
of their ancestries with unique characteristics that
identify their planar heritage. Their skin and hair can
be any color of the sky, ranging from cloudy whites to
the twilight tones of dawn and dusk. Complex, swirling
marks dance across the skin of many sylphs, resembling
shifting summer clouds. Some have skin cool to the
touch, while others are surrounded by a constant static.
Their hair can move with a life of its own, and they’re
often accompanied by light breezes that follow them
everywhere they go.
Sylphs typically prefer clothing in light, airy fabrics
such as silk and linen, cut in loose and voluminous
styles that flow in the breeze. Many of them deliberately
wear chimes and jewels that jingle in the wind, though
more stealthy geniekin endeavor to keep everything
pinned down.
societY
Sylphs exist within the societies of other ancestries,
usually that of their mortal families, and it’s incredibly
common for them to have a sense of never quite
belonging. Most sylphs engage in a practice known as
“listening to the wind,” keeping their eyes and ears open
to all that happens, often making their companions
uncomfortable in the process. For sylphs, this habit
of vigilance and information-seeking helps them feel
connected to the world around them. A curious and
restless bunch, many sylphs seek out occupations and
lifestyles that allow them to travel and explore.
alignMent and religion
Most sylphs place little value on laws and tradition,
preferring to forge their own paths and go where
