Android (Rare)
Technological wonders from another world, androids have synthetic bodies and living
souls. Their dual nature makes them quick-thinking and calm under pressure, but
comfortable in stillness and solitude.
68
Androids first arrived on Golarion during the Rain of
Stars, when an interstellar vessel from the far-off planet of
Androffa crash-landed, scattering debris across Numeria.
While some android survivors of this crash still walk
Golarion today, most were created from the technological
pods, known as foundries, that operate sporadically amid the
starship’s wreckage. Androids birthed
from these mechanical wombs
possess mature bodies and
newborn souls, both organic
and synthetic; they emerge
knowing only their creators’
language and the motor
skills necessary for survival.
They have no understanding
of their surroundings, origin,
or purpose. Most learn
how to behave through
keen observation while
wandering Numeria.
Androids tend to be logical introverts, rational and
contemplative. Insatiably curious, with an urge to
understand themselves and the world around them,
androids place great value on intellectual pursuits. They
have difficulty interpreting and expressing emotions, both
in themselves and in others, which makes them seem distant
and uncaring. While androids can forge emotional bonds,
they find it more difficult to connect with non-androids.
If you want a character that’s a synthetic foreigner in
a fantastic world, forced to learn the nuances of reality
and society through the powers of observation and logic
alone, you should play an android.
yoU might...
• Keep your identity a secret, assuming others want to
exploit or harm you.
• Plan ahead, preparing multiple contingencies for
even simple tasks.
• Calculate the repercussions of your actions,
inventions, and thoughts before sharing them.
others proBABly...
• Assume you understand how to operate technology
and that you can capably communicate with
constructs and robots.
• Believe you to be immortal and envy your eternal
youth and vigor.
• Think you have no feelings and that you can’t
form emotional connections with others.
physicAl description
Androids were created in humanity’s image; thus,
foundries produce androids that represent all
humankind. Androids display great diversity in
coloration and ethnicity, height and body shape,
and gender identity. Androids breathe, eat, and
sleep like a human, although they’re incapable
of biological procreation. Their bodies contain
microscopic nanites, transported by fluid too
watery to be blood, that manage their organic
processes. These nanites are controlled through
biological circuitry that resembles tattoos and
is typically located along an android’s hands,
forearms, face, or neck. Many androids can
harness their nanites to increase their bodies’
efficiency, causing the circuitry to glow.
Androids don’t grow old. Instead,
their organic appearance becomes less
