76
APHORITE FEATS
The following feats are available to aphorite characters.
1ST LEVEL
AXIOMATIC LORE
FEAT 1
APHORITE
You possess a strong understanding of process among mortals and lawful outsiders
alike. The source of this knowledge might be intuition, study, or a childhood spent
among other aphorites. You gain the trained proficiency rank in Diplomacy and
Society. If you would automatically become trained in one of those skills (from your
background or class, for example), you instead become trained in a skill of your
choice. You also become trained in Axis Lore.
INTERNAL COHESION
FEAT 1
APHORITE
Axis’s order suffuses your body and helps it maintain coherency. You and your allies
can Treat your Wounds without healer’s tools. Once per day, when someone rolls a
failure or a critical failure on a check to Treat your Wounds, you can focus on your
internal cohesion to increase the degree of success by one step.
INTUITIVE CRAFTING
FEAT 1
APHORITE
Your affinity with process and order makes you a natural artisan. You gain the trained
proficiency rank in Crafting (or another skill of your choice, if you’re already trained
in Crafting). You gain the Specialty Crafting skill feat in a specialty of your choice.
LEMMA OF VISION
FEAT 1
APHORITE
You’ve solved a tiny stepping stone in your self-discovery, awakening
new depths in your sight. You gain darkvision.
5TH LEVEL
CRYSTALLINE DUST [two-actions]
FEAT 5
APHORITE
Frequency once per day
You’ve learned to disperse the crystalline motes coating your body as
a haze. You become concealed, though you can’t use this concealment
to Hide or Sneak, as normal for concealment where your position is still
obvious. The motes stay within an inch of your skin, move with you,
and last for a number of rounds equal to half your level.
INTERCORPORATE [one-action]
FEAT 5
APHORITE
Frequency once per day
Requirements You’re afflicted by a disease or poison, or are taking persistent damage.
Your ordered physiology rejects unwelcome elements. Choose one.
Disease or Poison Attempt a saving throw against the affliction at its current
stage. On a failure, the affliction’s stage doesn’t increase, but you suffer the effects
of the stage you were already on. On a critical failure, the stage only increases by 1.
Persistent Damage Attempt a DC 10 flat check to recover from the
persistent damage.
OFFENSIVE ANALYSIS
FEAT 5
APHORITE
You can enhance your senses and mental state to consider every aspect of an
attack. You can cast true strike as a divine innate spell once per day.
Aphorite Settlements
A few sites around the Inner
Sea region host aphorites in
greater-than-average concentrations.
Egorian: The order of Hell is
omnipresent in Cheliax’s capital. This
rigid structure also attracts Axis’s
influence, and a fair few aphorites
excel among the infernal contracts and
complex political machinations of the
City of Thorns.
Nantambu: The ancient Song-Wind
City maintains a complex web
of diplomatic and professional
relationships throughout the Mwangi
Expanse. Aphorites help spin these
silk-strong strands, while others
study the multiverse’s nature at the
Magaambya Academy.
Order’s Berth: An aphorite majority
populates this agglomeration of
boats and barges. The fleet plies Lake
Encarthan’s waters, seeking out those
most affected by the region’s conflicts
and offering their aid as artisans,
physicians, and negotiators.
