111
Family Relations
Most sulis are descended from jann,
a type of genie that embodies the
connection and interaction between
the four elements. These suli are
known as suli-jann, though the fact
that a suli could have any ancestor
other than a janni is often lost on
non-sulis. Other sulis are the children
of creatures that encompass multiple
elements, or are the children of two
geniekin tied to different elements
(such as an oread and an undine).
survive in many types of environment, from the hottest desert to the coldest tundra.
You gain the trained proficiency rank in Survival. If you would automatically become
trained in Survival (from your background or class, for example), you instead become
trained in a skill of your choice. You gain the Forager skill feat as a bonus feat.
5TH LEVEL
ELEMENTAL BULWARK [reaction]
FEAT 5
SULI
Trigger An enemy is about to damage you with cold, electricity, or fire, or with a
spell that has the air, earth, fire, or water trait.
You call upon the corresponding elements of your suli heritage to resist the effect.
You gain resistance 5 against the triggering damage.
9TH LEVEL
JANNI HOSPITALITY
FEAT 9
SULI
You can use magic to show others desert hospitality. You can cast 2nd-level create
food once per day and create water twice per day as arcane innate spells.
JANNI MAGIC
FEAT 9
SULI
The magic of jann runs through your blood. You can cast enlarge and speak with
animals once per day each as 2nd-level arcane innate spells.
TETRAELEMENTAL ASSAULT
FEAT 9
SULI
Prerequisites Elemental Assault
Your Elemental Assault cycles through all four elements. When
you use Elemental Assault, instead of choosing a single element,
you can choose an element from the list when using the action,
and then choose a different element at the beginning of each
of your next 3 turns without spending an action; once you
have chosen an element, you can’t choose it again during this
Elemental Assault, meaning you must select all four elements
over the course of 4 turns. Each time you choose an element, until
the beginning of your next turn, your Strikes deal an additional 1d6
damage of the indicated type and have the trait corresponding to that element.
13TH LEVEL
CONTINUOUS ASSAULT
FEAT 13
SULI
Prerequisites Elemental Assault
You can use Elemental Assault once per hour instead of once per day.
IMPROVED ELEMENTAL BULWARK
FEAT 13
SULI
Prerequisites Elemental Bulwark
You gain resistance 10 from Elemental Bulwark instead of 5.
SULI AMIR
FEAT 13
UNCOMMON
SULI
You have power connected to the powerful jann amirs. You can cast read omens
and 4th-level invisibility each once per day as arcane innate spells, and you can cast
detect magic at will as an arcane innate cantrip, heightened to a spell level equal to
half your level rounded up.
ANCESTRY
GUIDE
EXPANDED
ANCESTRIES
AND
HERITAGES
NEW
ANCESTRIES
AND
HERITAGES
ANCESTRAL
GEAR
GLOSSARY
AND INDEX
