50
GravE Orc
You were exposed to powerful necromantic energies that should have killed
you—but you survived. Your skin is cold, clammy, and gray. You gain resistance
to negative damage equal to half your level (minimum 1). You also gain a +1
circumstance bonus to saving throws against necromancy effects.
WintEr Orc
Your ancestors survived in cold climates. You become trained in Survival,
and you treat environmental cold effects as if they were one step less extreme
(incredible cold becomes extreme, extreme cold becomes severe, and so on).
ANCESTRY FEATS
The following ancestry feats are available to orcs.
1ST LEVEL
ORC WARMASK
FEAT 1
ORC
You paint your face to create a warmask, an invested magic item of negligible Bulk
with an item level equal to your level and a usage of worn (mask). It has the divination
trait and a magical tradition trait depending on its type. Donning or removing
your warmask requires 1 minute of work, though you don’t need to Invest the
mask each time. The warmask is unique to you and might signify your hold,
your accomplishments, or your faith. While creating your mask, you must
choose the source of your warmask’s power from the options below. This
source determines the mask’s associated skill as well as magical tradition.
Once you select this source, it can’t be changed. You become trained in the
associated skill, and you gain the Dubious Knowledge skill feat as a bonus feat.
You can spend 1 hour performing a ceremony that costs 50 gp to attune yourself
more deeply with your warmask. If you do, you gain a +1 item bonus to the
associated skill whenever you wear the warmask.
•
The Gods Religion, divine tradition
•
The Land Nature, primal tradition
•
Magic Arcana, arcane tradition
• The Unknown Occultism, occult tradition
5TH LEVEL
DEFY DEATH
FEAT 5
ORC
Prerequisites Orc Ferocity
You’re exceptionally difficult to kill. The DC of your recovery
checks is equal to 9 + your dying value, or 8 + your
dying value if you have the Toughness general feat.
In addition, whenever someone returns you to life
using magic that would normally leave you
debilitated for a week (such as raise dead or the
resurrect ritual), you don’t suffer that condition.
MASK OF POWER
FEAT 5
ORC
Prerequisites Orc Warmask
Your warmask sharpens your connection to the
source of your mask’s power. During your daily
preparations, choose fear, phantom pain, or true strike.
Until your next daily preparations, you can cast this spell as a 1st-level innate
spell once per day; the spell’s tradition is determined by the tradition tied to your
warmask. You must be wearing your warmask to Cast the Spell.
Orc History
Originating deep underground, orcs were
driven upward when the dwarves began
their Quest for Sky. Endless dwarf forces
advanced from below, crossing into orc
territory and inciting a war that lasted
for countless orc lifetimes, with each
new generation losing more ground.
When finally driven to the surface,
orcs discovered a world shrouded by
ash. The nearby human civilizations
were unprepared for their anger and
desperation as they battled their way to
empire with dauntless ferocity.
