38
checks and saving throws against dragons. In addition, whenever you meet a
creature with the dragon trait in a social situation, you can attempt a Diplomacy
check to Make an Impression on that creature immediately, rather than after
conversing for 1 minute; you take a –5 penalty to this check. If you fail, you can
choose to engage in 1 minute of conversation and then attempt a new check rather
than accept the failure or critical failure result.
Special If you have the Glad-Hand skill feat, you don’t take the penalty to your
immediate Diplomacy check if the target has the dragon trait.
KOBOLD WEAPON FAMILIARITY
FEAT 1
KOBOLD
You’ve trained with weapons ideal for subterranean efficiency. You are trained
with the crossbow, greatpick, light pick, pick, and spear. You also gain access to
all uncommon kobold weapons. For the purpose of determining your proficiency,
martial kobold weapons are simple weapons, and advanced kobold weapons are
martial weapons.
SLITHER
FEAT 1
KOBOLD
You are an expert at moving through extremely tight spaces. You gain the Quick
Squeeze skill feat, even if you’re not trained in Acrobatics. When you roll a success
on an Acrobatics check to Squeeze, you get a critical success instead.
5TH LEVEL
KOBOLD WEAPON INNOVATOR
FEAT 5
KOBOLD
Prerequisites Kobold Weapon Familiarity
You’ve learned devious tactics with your kobold weapons. Whenever you critically
hit with a crossbow, greatpick, light pick, pick, spear, or kobold weapon, you apply
the weapon’s critical specialization effect.
WINGLETS
FEAT 5
KOBOLD
You’re among the few kobolds who grow a set of draconic wings
later in life. The wings are initially small and weak; while not
enough for full flight, a strong flap allows you to jump further.
When Leaping horizontally, you move an additional 5 feet (this
additional distance isn’t cumulative with the increased Leap
distance from the Powerful Leap feat). You don’t automatically fail
your checks to High Jump or Long Jump if you don’t Stride at least 10 feet first.
In addition, when you attempt a Long Jump, you can jump a distance up to
10 feet higher than you normally would based on the result of your Athletics
check, though you still can’t jump farther than your Speed.
9TH LEVEL
BRIAR BATTLER
FEAT 9
KOBOLD
You’ve learned to use roots, crevices, uneven ground, and dense underbrush to
your advantage. When you’re in difficult terrain from an environmental feature, you
can Take Cover, even if the feature wouldn’t ordinarily be large enough for you to
Take Cover.
CLOSE QUARTERS
FEAT 9
KOBOLD
You’ve trained to fight with allies in tunnel warrens, dense undergrowth, or
similarly cramped terrain. If you are Small or smaller, you can end your movement
Other Kobolds
Kobolds most commonly share
the coloration and some physical
resemblance to chromatic and metallic
dragons, but others closely match
different sets of true dragons—notably
esoteric, imperial, planar, and primal
dragons. In Tian Xia, kobolds with an
imperial dragon appearance are nearly
as common as those with chromatic
and metallic features, and often take
roles as advisors and spellcasters.
Planar and primal kobolds sometimes
hatch when a settlement is in great
danger or exposed to planar energies,
and are often considered to be destined
for greatness. Esoteric kobolds are
rare anywhere, though they appear
more regularly in places with strange
energies (such as the Impossible
Lands), and are often feared and
mistrusted by their clutchmates.
