45
their human neighbors, which also serve them when they want to roam Kelesh’s
city streets without comment.
While Sand Brethren iruxi vary wildly in physiognomy, they share traditions
of hospitality, desert flower cultivation, and scimitar sword dances that involve
nicking the tips of their rivals’ tails. The slender Zephyr Kin, nocturnal traders,
share news and tall tales from Rahadoum to Taldor and into Casmaron,
reinforcing the shared culture of the otherwise disparate desert iruxi.
Sand Brethren mostly take the cliffscale or sandstrider lizardfolk heritage.
terwazaSh
Outside of Droon, western Garund is the center of iruxi culture—and Terwazash
iruxi certainly hold themselves as paragons of their ancestry. Terwazashes are
brightly colored, usually with green scales and paler underbellies, though historical
association with dragons and lunar nagas means that entirely white, black, and
emerald individuals also appear. Terwazashes also tend to have expressive fin and
neck frills, and have strong artistic traditions focused on jewelry. The clothing
they wear is made of waterproof material such as woven reeds.
Terwazashes most often take the frilled or unseen lizardfolk heritage.
other ethniCitieS
Lizardfolk inhabit areas throughout Garund, from the red-scaled, cliff-dwelling
Karrakis to the secretive Mist Dragons who move through rain forest treetops
without ever touching the ground. Lizardfolk are most prevalent in southern
Garund, particularly in the iruxi nation of Droon, but are also numerous in
Vudra, where they mingle (and sometimes compete) with the area’s other
reptilian peoples, including vishkanya. Most Vudrani iruxi have scales that blend
in well with their jungle and mountain homes, though some appear glossy black
with brilliantly colored mouths that warn of venomous bites.
LIZARDFOLK HERITAGES
The following heritages are available to lizardfolk.
Cloudleaper lizardFolK
Your body is light with flaps of skin along your limbs that catch the air
that passes beneath you. As long as you can act and have enough room,
you can open the flaps to slow any fall just enough to avoid taking damage
(whether you have the room to do so depends on the GM’s discretion).
woodStalKer lizardFolK
You move easily through thick forest and jungle, using every branch
or bush. You can always use the Take Cover action when in forest or
jungle terrain to gain cover, even if you’re not next to an obstacle you
would normally be able to Take Cover behind. You gain the Terrain
Stalker feat, even if you’re not trained in Stealth, and you must
choose underbrush as your chosen terrain.
LIZARDFOLK FEATS
The following ancestry feats are available to
lizardfolk.
1ST LEVEL
BONE MAGIC
FEAT 1
LIZARDFOLK
Your connection to your iruxi ancestors manifests as a simple primal
spell that you cast using a fragment of an ancestor’s bones. Choose one
cantrip from the primal spell list. You can cast this cantrip as a primal innate
spell at will, and it’s heightened to a spell level equal to half your level rounded up.
Droon
Long before the birth of Azlant, iruxi
realms girdled Golarion. Today, only
one nation recalls the splendor of that
bygone era: Droon, a vast empire on
the coast of southern Garund. Here,
lizardfolk rule astride dinosaurs. Iruxi
nobles settle feuds via ceratosaur
duels. Sauropod caravan trains haul
goods across seemingly impossible
distances. Wizards breed spell-laced
rhamphorhynchus familiars, and no
thief worth their salt pulls a job without
a whistling velociraptor lookout.
ANCESTRY
GUIDE
EXPANDED
ANCESTRIES
AND
HERITAGES
NEW
ANCESTRIES
AND
HERITAGES
ANCESTRAL
GEAR
GLOSSARY
AND INDEX
