84
estlari
Most of the fetchlings who live in Beacon—better known to those on Golarion
as Shadow Absalom—are Estlaris, a fetchling sect that traces their origins to
the city’s founding days. Centered on the light of the Glare, a stable interplanar
portal inside a mysterious stonework cathedral, those first fetchlings built the city
alongside the insectile d’ziriak. Despite historically unstable alliances, the two
groups have made Beacon an interplanar metropolis—if a somber and dangerous
one. The masked umbral dragon Argrinyxia rules with a tight grip, though she
loosens it enough to encourage the flow of goods and peoples from across the
multiverse. Many Estlaris work as merchants and negotiators as a result.
Color and light are hallmarks of Estlari culture, the former influenced by the
d’ziriak practice called light weaving. Magical lights or ornate candles mark
important occasions. Estlaris also see personal fashion as an important means of
expression. Popular trends include: angular, d’ziriak-inspired designs; vibrantly
dyed hair; and muted outfits that incorporate a single, colorful accessory.
Estlari skin tones tend toward lighter shades like alabaster and ash, and their
eyes are usually shades of yellow. Their hair is predominantly straight, fine,
and pale. Many are slender and long-limbed, appearing almost stretched.
Estlaris’ crisp-edged shadows often look darker than would be expected
for prevailing light conditions.
rikmirit
Rikmirit fetchlings dwell in the forested hollows and sheltered valleys of
the southeastern Five Kings Mountains, near the borders of Andoran,
Taldor, and Galt. Folk tales relate how an ancient “Surgeon’s Spire”
drew Rikmirits from the Shadow Plane and into the mountains. Their
communities are nestled behind wooden palisades, and they arrange their
steep-roofed, gray- and green-tiled buildings to take advantage of what
little sunlight reaches these locations.
Family, community, and hospitality are key cultural values for the
insular Rikmirits. Almost all settlements feature a central all-hearth—a
large building with room for communal work, socialization, and guest
lodging. Most regional travelers know they can count on the
hospitality of the wary but welcoming fetchlings. Refugees and
expatriates from surrounding countries, particularly Galt, have
become increasingly long-term residents of Rikmirit towns.
Rikmirits have complexions from slate to charcoal and
tend to shape their thick hair with intricate bindings. Their
eyes usually shine in misty shades of gray or white. Rikmirit
shadows bend subtly toward the sun.
shareDar
Fetchlings living in Nidal are called Sharedars. The Nidalese are bound to
and deeply fear Zon-Kuthon, the Midnight Lord, and this fear extends to
the shadowy Sharedars, particularly in rural areas. Many of these fetchlings
dwell in Nidal’s major cities: Nisroch, Pangolais, and Ridwan.
These cities are no less unkind to fetchlings. The ruling Umbral
Court enforces strict residency quotas, forcing a portion of the Sharedar
population to live near Kuthite temples. The Court provides housing
and reagent-laced food. This sustenance ripens Sharedars’ supernatural
connection to the Shadow Plane, which can then be metaphysically
harvested in Kuthite rituals that sap their supernatural vibrancy. Even
though this exploitation is known, if not understood, some still opt for
the stable livelihood of bigger cities. Other Sharedars fight back. The
term “eave” refers to any fetchling who supports their community
through clandestine subversion of the state. Eaves smuggle, broker
information, or siphon resources from bureaucratic duties. Other
eaves help smuggle comrades to freedom abroad. The spoils of
Fetchling Adventurers
Fetchlings have a well-earned reputation
as travelers. Their merchants and
emissaries ply many roads, while
nomads and sailors seek what lies over
the next horizon. Charlatans, criminals,
and street urchins carve livelihoods from
inhospitable environs. Many fetchlings
leverage their natural litheness as
swashbucklers or rogues. The Shadow
Plane’s caress awakens hidden power
in many fetchling bards or sorcerers
(especially those of the shadow
bloodline) or drives them to study
deeper mysteries as witches or wizards.
