55
With enough time and determination, you can chew through nearly anything. You deal
double your jaws damage to an unattended, inanimate object.
PLAGUE SNIFFER
FEAT 5
RATFOLK
Prerequisites longsnout rat heritage (Advanced Player’s Guide 21)
You can sniff out the pungent tang of disease. When you detect a creature by scent, you
can also detect if that creature is suffering from a disease at a non-carrier state. If the
disease is particularly subtle, you might need to attempt a Perception check against the
disease’s DC (subject to the GM’s discretion).
RATFOLK ROLL [two-actions]
FEAT 5
MOVE
RATFOLK
Your ability to curl up into a tight ball comes in handy. You roll up into a ball and move
up to four times your Speed in a straight line down an incline. If you reach the bottom of
the incline or hit an obstacle during this first turn of movement, you stop rolling safely.
Otherwise, you automatically keep rolling at this Speed during subsequent turns until
you hit the bottom of the incline or an obstacle ends this movement (which can happen
in the middle of your turn). You’re slowed 2 each turn after the first that you keep rolling,
and if you hit an obstacle on a turn after the first, you and the obstacle both take 4d6
bludgeoning damage and you stop rolling.
9TH LEVEL
UNCANNY CHEEKS
FEAT 9
RATFOLK
You squirrel away useful objects and seem
to retrieve them at just the right time.
You gain the Prescient Consumable
and Prescient Planner feats (Advanced
Player’s Guide 208), except that you
always withdraw the objects from your
cheek pouches. This means the object
you retrieve must fit in your cheek pouches; this is generally an item of negligible Bulk
unless you also have the Cheek Pouches feat (Advanced Player’s Guide 22).
13TH LEVEL
SHINSTABBER
FEAT 13
RATFOLK
Prerequisites Overcrowd (Advanced Player’s Guide 23)
You can dart around and between your larger allies’ legs without tripping them
up. As long as you’re Small or smaller, you can end your movement in the same
square as a Medium or larger ally. Only two creatures total can share the same
space when using this ability or a similar one.
SKITTERING SNEAK
FEAT 13
RATFOLK
You squish, slink, and skitter from cover to cover with great speed and
stealth. You can move up to your full Speed when you Sneak.
17TH LEVEL
RATFOLK GROWTH
FEAT 17
RATFOLK
You call upon the familial bonds you share with other ysoki to defend them in
battle. You can cast enlarge as a 6th-level primal innate spell once per day. You
can target only yourself and other ratfolk with this spell.
Ysoki of the Red Planet
To Golarion natives, Akiton appears
as a pink star winking in the evening
sky. The handful of explorers who’ve
gone there and returned tell of a
desert planet peopled by red-skinned
humanoids, four-armed giants, and—
most surprisingly of all—ysoki almost
identical to Golarion’s ratfolk, even
down to a shared common language.
These ysoki are expert traders as well
as superlative gadgeteers; while they
invent little themselves, they can
repair or reverse-engineer nearly any
sort of widget.
ANCESTRY
GUIDE
EXPANDED
ANCESTRIES
AND
HERITAGES
NEW
ANCESTRIES
AND
HERITAGES
ANCESTRAL
GEAR
GLOSSARY
AND INDEX
