91
Fleshwarp Settlements
No settlements consisting entirely
of fleshwarps exist openly outside
of the Mana Wastes; elsewhere,
citizens keep the secret so well
that their community’s existence
isn’t known to the world at large.
Fleshwarps are more likely to live
on the fringes of other settlements,
working in industries where their
hardy constitution is an advantage
and their uncanny appearance isn’t
a liability. Some are herbalists or
trappers, working in the wilderness
and interacting with others only
rarely. Locals might come to consider
a fleshwarp their equal or friend, and
take umbrage at outsiders who make
a big deal out of the “monster” in their
midst. Sentiment might turn quickly
upon supernatural events or strange
attacks, however, and, tragically,
more than a few fleshwarps have
been turned out of homes they’ve
occupied for decades when faced with
a misguided mob.
as well as records brought forth by the denizens of New Thassilon, have
created something of a resurgence in sin magic used to transform flesh. These
practitioners are, as in the days of ancient Thassilon, almost universally
amoral alchemists or sin-obsessed wizards, and efforts to tamp down their
renewed practices have met with little success. Most Thassilonian fleshwarps
bear twisted runes that hint at their transformation.
Perhaps the least common and least understood origin of fleshwarps on
Golarion is found in Numeria. Foul and eldritch fluids of many types collect
in pools and puddles throughout this harsh land, and the desperate or foolish
sometimes drink them. Imbibing these fluids transforms the people  who drink
them into fleshwarps in entirely new ways unconnected to magic or alchemy.
Instead, their transformation is the result of advanced chemical interactions
or reconstructive nanites. Those unhappy with the result tend to be more
hopeful than other fleshwarps of finding some way to reverse the change,
perhaps by refining and imbibing yet more Numerian fluids. That these
experiments usually lead to further transformations, or even death, doesn’t
always stop them from continuing their trials on themselves—or others.
FLESHWARP HERITAGES
The circumstances of each fleshwarp’s creation are different, but they can be
grouped into heritages based on the nature of their origin. Choose one of the
following fleshwarp heritages at 1st level. Although any fleshwarp may have
any appearance you desire, each heritage provides typical characteristics.
createD FleshwarP
You were created through occult or alchemical
processes, such as being grown in a vat or
stitched together from the body parts of other
creatures by a scientist in Ustalav. Your
manufactured body is durable; you don’t
need to eat and can’t starve. You gain a
+2 circumstance bonus to saving throws
against diseases.
mutateD FleshwarP
Transformed by uncontrolled magic, you originated in
a the Mana Wastes or another region similarly devastated by
uncontrolled magic. Due to your toughened or redundant organs,
the DC for your checks to recover from persistent bleed damage
is 10 instead of 15, and it’s reduced to 5 instead of 10 if you have
particularly effective assistance recovering from the persistent damage.
shaPewrought FleshwarP
A victim of fleshwarping, you likely bear loose flesh, bony spurs, or features
of inhuman creatures sprouting from your skin. You have nevertheless turned
the psychic toll of your transformation into a strength. You gain resistance to
mental damage equal to half your level (minimum 1).
technological FleshwarP
Your transformation is due to manipulation by advanced technology, like that
found in Numeria. Your emotions are dulled and hard to influence. When you
roll a success on a saving throw against an emotion effect, you get a critical
success instead.
ANCESTRY FEATS
At 1st level, you gain one ancestry feat, and you gain an additional ancestry
feat every 4 levels thereafter (at 5th, 9th, 13th, and 17th levels). As a fleshwarp,
you select from among the following ancestry feats.
ANCESTRY
GUIDE
EXPANDED
ANCESTRIES
AND
HERITAGES
NEW
ANCESTRIES
AND
HERITAGES
ANCESTRAL
GEAR
GLOSSARY
AND INDEX
