22
ANCESTRY FEATS
The following ancestry feats are available to changelings.
1ST LEVEL
MAIDEN’S MENDING [reaction]
FEAT 1
CHANGELING
Frequency once per minute
Trigger You cast a non-cantrip occult spell or an innate spell from a changeling
ancestry feat.
You can tap into some of the magic that flows through your blood to give you new
life. You gain a number of temporary Hit Points equal to half your level (minimum 1)
that last until the end of your next turn.
MOON MAY
FEAT 1
CHANGELING
LINEAGE
Your mother was a moon hag, a handmaiden of Groetus, and you have a single
scarlet eye and a sliver of her supernal foresight. You can cast guidance as an
occult innate cantrip. A cantrip is heightened to a spell level equal to half your level
rounded up.
SNOW MAY
FEAT 1
CHANGELING
LINEAGE
You’re the child of a winter hag, with one blue-white eye and an affinity for rime
and snow. When moving over ice or snow in arctic terrain, you always gain the
benefits of the Cover Tracks action without needing to use the activity or having
to move half your Speed. You don’t treat icy terrain as uneven ground (though it’s
still difficult terrain for you), and you ignore difficult terrain caused by snow. Cold
precipitation and environmental cold effects don’t alter the time it takes for you
to become fatigued.
VEIL MAY
FEAT 1
CHANGELING
LINEAGE
Born of a blood hag, a fiery blood drinker hidden behind a false
skin, you have one blood-red eye and the ability to slough off your
appearance in an instant. You gain the Lie to Me skill feat, and you can
shed a disguise quickly by peeling off the outer layer of your skin. Changing
from a disguise used to Impersonate back to your true appearance is a 3-action
activity for you; if you’re an expert in Deception, it’s a 2-action activity, and if
you’re legendary in Deception, it takes only a single action. This doesn’t allow
you to don or remove armor or other equipment any faster, but your physical
appearance otherwise returns to its normal state.
VIRGA MAY
FEAT 1
CHANGELING
LINEAGE
Born of a storm hag, you have one crystal-blue or rain-gray eye. You share your
mother’s power over wind and storm. You can cast electric arc as an occult innate
cantrip. As normal, a cantrip is heightened to a spell level equal to half your level
rounded up.
5TH LEVEL
CUNNING HAIR
FEAT 5
CHANGELING
Your hair moves under your control. You can perform simple Interact actions with
your hair, such as opening an unlocked door. Your hair can’t perform actions that
require fingers or significant manual dexterity, including any action that would
require a check to accomplish, and you can’t use it to hold items.
Changeling Relationships
Given their desire for emotional
intimacy, romance and love are often
major aspects of changelings’ lives.
Some flit from one tryst to another,
while others find dedicated lovers
and cling to them tightly—sometimes
enough to drive them away. While
some changelings use their mystique
to manipulate others, such attempts
all too often end with the changeling
actually falling in love, only to
become heartbroken when their lover
discovers their earlier duplicity.
Changelings rarely feel comfortable
with a single partner despite their
desire for commitment. The most
comfortable relationship structure
for many changelings involves the
changeling and two or more people,
each in a relationship with all other
members. However, these changelings
are acutely aware that their hag blood
is the likely source of this desire.
