90
Fleshwarp Adventurers
Fleshwarps often live on the margins
of society. The hermit, hunter, nomad,
or street urchin backgrounds work
well for many fleshwarps; others
might be criminals, entertainers,
or prisoners. The need to defend
themselves leads many fleshwarps to
become barbarians, fighters, rogues,
or rangers. Champions and druids are
common callings among fleshwarps
who seek to defend and better the lot
of others of their kind.
Fleshwarps fall into two major groups: those born a member of a different
ancestry and transformed into a fleshwarp or those born as a fleshwarp,
knowing no other existence. The former sometimes hide their new forms,
seeking shelter among their prior society with those open-minded enough
to shield them from the less understanding—though unfortunately, there
are no guarantees that their friends and family members will be protectors,
rather than persecutors. These fleshwarps know best how to blend into their
erstwhile societies and might go undiscovered for a long period of time.
Fleshwarps born into their warped forms generally have a more difficult
upbringing and were likely often forced to fend for themselves, particularly
if rejected by parents who considered their form blasphemous or ill-fated.
They’re likely to accept their own bodies, as they’ve never known another.
FleshwarP origins
Drow fleshwarpers practice their horrid arts in subterranean laboratories,
using intentionally painful methods to transform unwilling victims into
surreal, if predictable, shapes. The most common final result of this process
is a drider (Bestiary 159). Shapewrought fleshwarps are the lucky exceptions
who escape before the process is complete or who survive a faulty process.
They might have some features of the fleshwarp they were destined to become,
had the transformation been completed, or might have other features entirely.
They often retain an intense fear of dark, underground places.
Cultists who serve wicked deities of transmutation, such as Haagenti or
Yamasoth, sometimes forcibly transform victims in vile rites. Whether the
victim survives is of little consequence to these cultists; it’s the transformation
itself that honors their malevolent gods. Their victims are often released after
their change, usually from indifference but sometimes to instill terror in a
local populace.
The fleshforgers of the magic-infused nation of Nex also create fleshwarps,
particularly in the cities of Ecanus and Oenopion. These processes spring
not from hatred or debased worship, but from a clinical, academic
desire to test the limits of magic with little disregard for sapient life.
Fleshwarps created in the fleshforges of Oenopion are more
likely to have others that resemble them, as some of the
processes used there are time-tested and replicable. These
fleshwarps are the most likely to have undergone their
transformation willingly, accepting enormous risks to gain greater
strength and power.
Fleshwarps sometimes originate from the laboratories of Ustalav, results
of scientific rather than magical experiments. Hidden from a suspicious
populace, these fleshwarps are rarely coddled by their scientist creators; they
are often forced to serve as laborers and may be cast out as the scientists push
for even more extreme discoveries. A few are taken as pupils by their secretive
masters, raised with a startlingly deep knowledge of alchemical or scientific
practices but limited experience with the wider society.
Some fleshwarps have no mortal hand in their creation at all, but are formed
due to some environmental accident or catastrophe. The erratic primal magic
of the Mana Wastes region is widely known to give rise to fleshwarps. This
area holds a number of small fleshwarp settlements,  so fleshwarps here are
more likely to have a stable home community.
Body-altering magic was practiced in ancient times as well. Many mages
and alchemists of ancient Thassilon practiced fleshwarping, particularly
the runelords, who regularly bound magic to flesh in the form of arcane
sigils and created magically imbued creatures whole cloth. Until the sudden
appearance of New Thassilon, this knowledge was at best fragmented
and was widely considered lost; sinspawn (Bestiary 296) and fleshdregs
seemed to be the only remaining vestiges of this once-extensive lore. Recent
discoveries in Thassilonian ruins such as Hollow Mountain and Xin-Shalast,
