92
Fleshwarp Motives
Fleshwarps have a variety of
reasons for taking up the life of an
adventurer. Some are turned out of
their homes by an uncaring parent or
a suspicious mob. Other fleshwarps
travel to learn more about their
own transformation or to seek out
others of their kind. A few even
actively seek the means—either
technological or magical—to undo
their transformations or adopt a new
form that won’t incite repulsion or
fear in common people. Still others
understand that a good way to earn
respect is to solve a community’s
problems—then quickly leave the
area—and therefore fall into the role
of itinerant adventurers-for-hire.
1ST LEVEL
ABERRATION KINSHIP
FEAT 1
FLESHWARP
Your mind resonates with the inscrutable thought processes that inhuman
aberrations use to communicate. You can cast mindlink as an innate occult spell
once per day, but you can target only aberrations.
DEEP VISION
FEAT 1
FLESHWARP
Your vision is suited for night or the underground. You gain darkvision.
LIVING WEAPON
FEAT 1
FLESHWARP
You’ve learned to use part of your form as a weapon. When you select this feat, you gain
a claws unarmed attack that deals 1d4 slashing damage and has the agile and finesse
traits; a horn, jaws, or tusk unarmed attack that deals 1d6 piercing damage and has the
versatile S trait; or a tail unarmed attack that deals 1d6 bludgeoning damage and has
the backswing trait. Each of these unarmed attacks is in the brawling weapon group.
Your features are mutable; you can select this feat at any level, and you can retrain
into or out of this feat or change the type of attack you gain.
Special You can take this feat multiple times. Each time you do, select a new
attack from the options above.
STARTLING APPEARANCE
FEAT 1
FLESHWARP
You are trained in Intimidation (or another skill of your choice, if you
were already trained in Intimidation) and gain the Intimidating Glare
skill feat as a bonus feat.
5TH LEVEL
FINNED RIDGES
FEAT 5
FLESHWARP
The ridges and flaps of your skin steer you through the water. You gain
a swim Speed of 15 feet.
GAPING FLESH [reaction]
FEAT 5
FLESHWARP
Frequency once per day
Trigger A creature you are aware of damages you with a melee Strike.
Your wound yawns open, appalling your attacker. The attacker must
succeed at a Fortitude saving throw against your class DC or spell DC,
whichever is higher, or become sickened 1 (sickened 2 on a critical failure). It
can’t recover from the sickened condition while it’s adjacent to you.
MUTATE WEAPON [one-action]
FEAT 5
FLESHWARP
Prerequisites Living Weapon
Select one unarmed attack you gained with Living Weapon. The damage die for that
attack increases by one step until the end of your turn. In addition, choose to either
have the attack gain a reach of 10 feet until the end of your turn or for you to gain a +1
status bonus to attack rolls with the chosen unarmed attack until the end of your turn.
POWERFUL GUTS
FEAT 5
FLESHWARP
Your stomach is particularly durable. When you succeed at a Fortitude save to
reduce your sickened value, you reduce it by 2 (or by 3 on a critical success).
