142
Mordant Spire A strange tower located in the Steaming Sea. Home of
the secretive Spiresworn elves. World Guide 66–67
Mualijae A major elven ethnic group consisting of three subgroups
based in the Mwangi Expanse. Character Guide 24
Mwangi This is a term for multiple human ethnicities originating in
the Mwangi Expanse. Character Guide 7
Mwangi Expanse The area in northern central Garund consisting of
most of the regions in and around the Mwangi Jungle, including
the nation of Vidrian. World Guide 84–95
Nantambu A city-state located on the western edge of the Mwangi
Jungle. Home to the Magaambya magic academy. World Guide
89–90
Necril The language of ghouls and other intelligent undead.
Nethys Neutral god of magic. Known as the All-Seeing Eye. Gods &
Magic 34–35
New Thassilon A young nation in northwest Avistan, home to
time-displaced Thassilonians. World Guide 113–115
Nex A nation located on the eastern coast of Garund, known as a
center for arcane study. World Guide 80–81
Nidal A nation along the southwest coast of Avistan watched over by
the evil god Zon-Kuthon. World Guide 102–103
Nidalese A human ethnicity of the Inner Sea region, common in Nidal
and the surrounding areas. Character Guide 7–8
Nirmathas A nation located in central Avistan, known for its vast
wilderness and war with Molthune. World Guide 43
Nirvana A peaceful plane filled with idyllic landscapes and home to
the celestials known as agathions and angels. The plane is neutral
good. Gamemastery Guide 144
Norgorber Neutral evil god of greed, murder, poison, and secrets.
Known as the Reaper of Reputation. Gods & Magic 36–37
Numeria A nation in northeast Avistan known for unique technology
salvaged from a crashed starship. World Guide 29–30
Oprak A nation in central Avistan, home to hobgoblins who won the
land by force. World Guide 44
orc* A nocturnal, tough-skinned ancestry driven by conflict and pride.
48–51, Advanced Player’s Guide 16–19
oread* A type of geniekin descended from a being from the Plane of
Earth. 104–107
Osirion A nation in northeastern Garund that boasts countless tombs
and temples from the great empire of Ancient Osirion. World Guide
53–54
Othoban A halfling ethnic group that lives primarily in New Thassilon
and Varisia. Character Guide 42
Paraheen A group of dwarf artisans based in the Qadiran city of
Katheer. Character Guide 18
Pathfinder Society A globe-trotting organization dedicated to
exploration and reclaiming lost relics. Character Guide 106–115
Pharasma Neutral goddess of birth, death, fate, prophecy, and time.
Known as the Lady of Graves. Gods & Magic 38–39
planar scion A blanket term for a group of versatile heritages
representing people descended from a distant planar ancestor or
with a strong tie to another plane.
Plane of Air An Elemental Plane filled with vast skies, churning
storms, and massive clouds. Gamemastery Guide 139
Plane of Earth An Elemental Plane permeated with solid stone, endless
caverns, and rich mineral veins. Gamemastery Guide 139–140
Plane of Fire An Elemental Plane covered in dancing flames, seas of
magma, and clouds of ash. Gamemastery Guide 140
Plane of Water An Elemental Plane saturated with endless oceans,
bogs of mud and silt, and clouds of steam. Gamemastery
Guide 140
psychopomp A family of monitors spawned within the Boneyard to
convey souls to the Outer Planes. Most are true neutral. Bestiary
270–271
Qadira A nation located in southeast Avistan. The westernmost satrapy
of the great Padishah Empire of Kelesh. World Guide 54–55
qlippoth A term for primeval fiends born of the essence of the Abyss.
Qlippoth are native to the Abyss. Bestiary 2 212–217
Rahadoum A nation located in northwest Garund, known for its
prohibitions against religious practice of any kind. World Guide
55–56
ratfolk* An enterprising humanoid ancestry who resemble rats. They
commonly refer to themselves as ysoki. 52–55, Advanced Player’s
Guide 20–23
Ravounel A young nation in southwest Avistan, known for its
successful uprising against Cheliax and continued push for
individual freedoms. World Guide 104–105
Realm of the Mammoth Lords A region in northern Avistan known for its
untamed wilderness and dangerous megafauna. World Guide 115–116
Red Mantis A group of assassins who serve the mantis god Achaekek
and reside on Mediogalti Island. World Guide 65–66
River Kingdoms A region in northeast Avistan where dozens of small
kingdoms struggle for dominance. World Guide 31–32
Rovagug Chaotic evil god of destruction, disaster, and wrath. Known
as the Rough Beast. Gods & Magic 40–41
runelord One of the powerful wizards who ruled in ancient Thassilon.
Each runelord is tied to an aspect of sin magic.
runes* 139
Saga Lands The region in northwest Avistan consisting of Irrisen,
the Lands of the Linnorm Kings, New Thassilon, the Realm of the
Mammoth Lords, and Varisia. World Guide 108–119
Sarenrae Neutral good goddess of healing, honesty, redemption, and
the sun. Known as the Dawnflower. Gods & Magic 42–43
Sargava A former colony of the Empire of Cheliax that broke off
into an independent state. A recent revolution has led Sargava to
become the new nation of Vidrian. World Guide XX
Sarkoris Scar A region located in northern Avistan. Formerly the site
of the demonic Worldwound. World Guide 32–33
Shackles A collection of islands off the western coast of Garund.
Known for rampant piracy. World Guide 67–68
Shadow Plane A transitive plane that overlaps and serves as a
twisted reflection of the Material Plane. Gamemastery Guide 141
Shadowtongue A language common among creatures from the
Shadow Plane, as well as Nidalese people.
Shelyn Neutral good goddess of art, beauty, love, and music; known
as the Eternal Rose. Gods & Magic 44–45
Shining Kingdoms The region in southeast Avistan consisting of
Andoran, Druma, the Five Kings Mountains, Galt, Kyonin, and
Taldor. World Guide 120–131
Shoanti A human ethnicity common across the Storval Plateau, the
frontiers of Varisia, and beyond. Character Guide 8
Shory An ancient empire prominent in central Garund circa –2500
ar. Famous for its flying cities.
Silver Ravens The rebel group that helped liberate the city of Kintargo
and establish the nation of Ravounel.
Sivanah Neutral goddess of illusions, mysteries, reflections, and
secrets. Known as the Seventh Veil. Gods & Magic 69
Sodden Lands A region on the northwest coast of Garund, ravaged by
the Eye of Abendego. World Guide 93
Spiresworn A major, self-isolating elven ethnic group that lives within
the Mordant Spire in the Steaming Sea. Character Guide 24–25
sprite* An ancestry of diminutive fey that have made their way to the
Material Plane. 126–131
Steaming Sea The name for the portion of the Arcadian Ocean that
lies off the western coast of Avistan.
strix* Winged humanoids, most of whom live in and around Cheliax.
132–137
suli* A geniekin who embodies a mixture of elements and is typically
descended from jann. 108–111
sylph* A type of geniekin descended from a being from the Plane of
Air. 112–115
Taldan This human ethnicity is widespread throughout Avistan,
especially in the south of that continent. Character Guide 8
Taldor A nation located in southeast Avistan. This empire in decline
seeks to reclaim former glory. World Guide 128–129
Tanglebriar A large swamp in southern Kyonin. Domain of the demon
lord Treerazer. World Guide 128
Tar-Baphon A necromancer killed by Aroden who rose again as the
lich-king known as the Whispering Tyrant. Threatened the Inner
Sea region for centuries before being imprisoned, but broke free
in 4719 ar to terrorize the region once more. Legends 104–105,
World Guide 14, 38
tengu* Humanoids who resemble birds. 56–59, Advanced Player’s
Guide 24–27
Thassilonian The language of the people of Thassilon and New Thassilon.
Thuvia A nation located in north-central Garund, known for its
production of the sun orchid elixir. World Guide 56–57
Tian A group of human ethnicities originally hailing from the nations
of Tian Xia. Common along major Avistani trade routes, including
the Crown of the World. Character Guide 8–9
tiefling* A planar scion descended from or influenced by a fiend.
60–63, Advanced Player’s Guide 39–41
Torag Lawful good god of the forge, protection, and strategy. Known
as the Father of Creation. Gods & Magic 46–47
