34
check to recover from persistent physical (including bleed), energy, or poison
damage is DC 13 (rather than DC 15), or DC 8 when provided particularly
effective assistance.
ANCESTRY FEATS
Hobgoblins can select from the following ancestry feats.
1ST LEVEL
CANTORIAN REINFORCEMENT
FEAT 1
HOBGOBLIN
The life energy that helped create the first hobgoblins is particularly potent in you,
protecting you from ongoing maladies. When you succeed at a saving throw against
a disease or poison, you reduce the stage by 2 (or 1 for a virulent disease or poison),
and when you critically succeed, you reduce the stage by 3 (or 2 for a virulent
disease or poison).
SNEAKY
FEAT 1
HOBGOBLIN
Stealth is an important tool in your arsenal. You can move 5 feet farther when you
take the Sneak action, up to your Speed.
In addition, as long as you continue to use Sneak actions and succeed at your
Stealth check, you don’t become observed if you don’t have cover or greater cover
and aren’t concealed at the end of the Sneak action, as long as you have cover or
greater cover or are concealed at the end of your turn.
STONE FACE
FEAT 1
HOBGOBLIN
Through conditioning or experience, you’ve mastered the art of
composure, even in the face of fear. You gain a +1 circumstance bonus
to saves against effects with the fear trait, and a +2 circumstance bonus
to your Will DC against Intimidate skill actions, such as Demoralize.
5TH LEVEL
RECOGNIZE AMBUSH [free-action]
FEAT 5
HOBGOBLIN
Trigger You roll initiative.
Your combat training has honed you to be ready for an
attack at all times. You Interact to draw a weapon.
RUNTSAGE
FEAT 5
HOBGOBLIN
Unlike most of your kind, who dismiss goblins as
embarrassments or expendable annoyances, you have
studied the methodology behind their irresponsible and
incomprehensible actions. You gain the Adopted Ancestry
general feat and must select goblin as the feat’s chosen ancestry. You also
gain one 1st-level goblin ancestry feat.
9TH LEVEL
CANTORIAN REJUVENATION [two-actions]
FEAT 9
HEALING
HOBGOBLIN
NECROMANCY
POSITIVE
Frequency once per day
The life-giving energy that flows in your blood revitalizes you. You
recover 4d6 Hit Points and gain 10 temporary Hit Points for 1 minute.
When you reach 15th level, you instead recover 6d6 HP and gain 15 temporary HP.
Looming Concerns
To many, the specter of Oprak looms
large over the Eye of Dread region.
While the Whispering Tyrant is a more
fearsome figure, nearby nations worry
that once he is defeated, Oprak will
be the next monstrous powerhouse
on their doorstep. Some nations, like
Druma, realize the potential of Oprak as
an economic ally. Others, like Molthune
and Nirmathas, still feel the sting of the
Ironfang Invasion and hold unchecked
grudges. Nidal has reached out to
extend their non-aggression agreement,
and Nirmathas appears grudgingly
set to follow suit. Molthune remains
undecided, or at least unspoken about
its leanings, though rumors suggest
that hostility between Oprak and
Molthune is rising behind the scenes.
