21
CHANGELINGS OF THE INNER SEA
While changelings largely resemble other members of their father’s ancestry,
a few common tells still distinguish them. Their eyes are the best-known trait;
nearly every changeling inherits a single eye’s color from their mother, a trait
referred to by superstition as the covenant sign. Tales claim that this eye serves
as the link that facilitates the Call and that putting it out will save the child,
but numerous one-eyed changelings—and, for that matter, one-eyed hags—can
testify to the belief’s falsehood.
In addition to the covenant sign, most changelings grow long, flowing hair
that requires frequent trimming. They often appear especially striking for their
ancestry, and many have a certain potent mystique. Changelings commonly
dress to accentuate physical appeal even if they don’t wish to use their
appearance to their advantage, as some inherited instinct causes them to find
intense emotional comfort in an alluring personal aesthetic.
Old tales describe changelings as exclusively women, but changelings of
other genders are simply less common. Some might never learn of their nature
as changelings since the Call disproportionately targets women. Nonetheless,
changelings of any gender can undergo the covenant ritual and become
hags. Perhaps because of this malleability, it’s somewhat more common for
changelings to feel drawn to a gender expression other than that which they
were assigned.
Changelings appear among almost all ancestries. Changeling dwarves,
most common in Cheliax and Varisia, often have soft skin that never calluses,
especially on their hands, which frequently causes them discomfort during hard
labor. Changeling dwarves raised among their ancestral cultures are usually
watched closely by the community for signs of their unnatural heritage, which
drives many to settle elsewhere or become adventurers.
Changeling elves, most common in Kyonin and among the Ilverani,
notably have strong and luxuriant hair, which can grow several
feet annually to easily reach ankle-length or longer. While elf
communities accept and even celebrate changeling elves, the
common understanding that a changeling has replaced another baby
leaves a bittersweet edge to their reaction, which many changelings
mistake for secret hatred or mockery. Changeling elves often receive
specialized training to resist the Call, and upon finding a changeling child,
some communities immediately set rangers on the wicked mother’s trail.
Unlike changelings of other ancestries, changeling gnomes rarely receive
different treatment from their people, for better or worse. Most common in
Absalom, Andoran, and throughout the Saga Lands, changeling gnomes are
marked by unusually large eyes—even for gnomes—which other ancestries
often find unsettling.
Goblins openly celebrate changelings of their ancestry, often calling
them stormcrows or stormcrones (regardless of gender). Most common in
Varisia, Isger, and the Shackles, changeling goblins typically appear taller
and ganglier than other goblins, though their tendency to develop hunched
backs more than offsets their height.
Found mostly in Andoran, Cheliax, and Iobaria, changeling halflings
attract a mix of intense suspicion and superstitious respect, and they’re
often assumed to have magic powers. Some communities pester their
changelings for help with numerous problems, from warts to bad crops,
driving them away in search of peace rather than excitement.
Changeling humans look especially slender and tall with long hair and
limbs. They’re most commonly viewed with suspicion, ostracized
for their differences, and simultaneously resented for their
advantages. The exception is in Irrisen, where changelings gain
a measure of respect. While likely found anywhere, changeling
humans drastically appear more frequently in Ustalav, Irrisen,
and Brevoy.
Changeling Adventurers
Depending on their mother’s choice of
cradle, a changeling might grow up a
farmhand or noble. Reclusive changelings
might be artists, herbalists, tinkers, or
hermits, while some find companionship
as animal whisperers. More outgoing
changelings might become charlatans
or fortune-tellers or use their allure as
merchants and entertainers.
Changelings carry the potential for
occult sorcery via their hag blood;
the bard’s path offers similar magic.
Many changelings who find beauty
in nature become druids or rangers,
while changeling rogues make master
manipulators with lethal claws.
Changelings might become paladins or
redeemers to protect what they love.
ANCESTRY
GUIDE
EXPANDED
ANCESTRIES
AND
HERITAGES
NEW
ANCESTRIES
AND
HERITAGES
ANCESTRAL
GEAR
GLOSSARY
AND INDEX
