The Plane of Earth’s influence runs through an oread’s family, most often from a shaitan
or crystal dragon ancestor. Oreads tend to be stoic, steadfast, and dependable, but they
contain depths not seen on the surface.
Oread
104
104
Oreads can be slow to reveal their true selves, or
perhaps more accurately, have enough depth and
mystery inherent to their beings that they can reveal
new and unexpected facets of themselves every day.
They usually feel that they personify certain aspects of
earth, stone, or other sediments or minerals, such as a
cliff’s tenacious resilience against erosion, the generosity
and nourishment of fertile soil, or the versatile utility
of metal and stone.
Oreads born with a special connection to a
specific subset of elemental earth, such as crystal,
dust, or mud, might have an oread lineage. A
lineage can be inherited along a family bloodline,
or it can manifest spontaneously in oread
children. They can be caused by where an
oread’s ancestors lived, frequently seen in
dustsoul oreads, many of whom are born
in a desert or to a family that has farmed
for generations. Lineages can also be
the result of specific planar heritages.
Gemsoul oreads often have a crystal
dragon in their lineage, and miresoul
oreads descend from the more sodden
creatures of elemental earth.
You Might...
• Relate your personal identity with
elemental earth and believe stones or
mountains represent core aspects of
your personality.
• Value moments of peace and quiet
seclusion where you can be alone
with nature.
• Take great pride in your elemental
lineage, especially if you believe
you are related to the austere
shaitan pashas.
others ProbablY...
• Look to you as an authority on
earth magic or elemental planes.
• Think you are wise and cautious,
moving into action only after
you have considered a problem
from all angles.
• Assume you are stoic and
quietly strong, keeping your
thoughts
and
feelings
to yourself.
PHYSICAL DESCRIPTION
Oreads have the same diversity in height, body type, and
physical characteristics as any other member of their
mortal ancestries, alongside a handful of other traits that
distinguish them as geniekin. Their skin is often gray or
brown, but can also resemble metals and precious stones,
with copper and iron veining or crystals that grow out of
their skin. Instead of hair, oreads often have crystals or
rocks that grow from their heads; regardless, most
oreads sculpt, decorate, or otherwise maintain the
appearance of their hair, whatever form it takes.
Almost all oreads have shimmering gemstone eyes,
beautiful and multifaceted.
Oreads usually dress in sturdy clothes that can
withstand physical labor and exposure to the
elements, like wool and leather. Many choose
clothing that will expose their unique
characteristics, tailored to show off any
crystals embedded in their rocky skin.
SOCIETY
Born and raised within the societies
of their mortal families, oread
children are often (though not
universally) described as shy and
quiet, growing up to be patient,
observant, and clever. They
gravitate toward careers that
allow them to work in peaceful
contemplation
with
their
thoughts,
present
opportunities
to work with their hands, or ideally,
both. Many oreads become miners or
crafters who work with the earth, such as
stonemasons, metalworkers, or gem cutters.
Oreads also tend to enjoy opportunities to
uphold structures or systems, and many find
their vigilance and patience well-suited for
careers as guards, wardens, or clerks. Oreads
born in rural communities find fulfillment
working and living on the land in a peaceful,
self-sufficient harmony with nature.
alignMent and religion
Oreads are known for being steadfast and
reliable, often placing high value on personal
honor and keeping their word. Many are
fiercely protective of their friends but less
concerned for the safety of those outside
