25
known as stravezeck; and the rare cel rau, descended from ancient strigoi
vampires. In Tian Xia’s Dragon Empires, dhampirs are most often ru-shi,
descended from the breath-stealing jiang-shi vampires more common to that
land. Adhyabhau dhampirs, creations of the rare vetalaranas—also called
psychic vampires—are hardly found outside the Impossible Kingdoms of
Vudra or, occasionally, Jalmeray.
Traditional dwarf culture maintains powerful safeguards against undead,
including a long history of tomb guardianship that makes vampires relatively
uncommon among most dwarf societies. Thus, dhampir dwarves are few and
far between, typically emerging in areas where dwarves have lost control
of their ancestral lands. Dhampir dwarves in traditional communities must
find a way to prove themselves—often by becoming hunters of undead
themselves—lest they be cast out from their homes.
Few elves would readily admit the extent to which their kind mingles with
the undead masters of the night, but similarly, few elves would admit that
they are just as easy prey to a vampire’s charms and enchantments as any
other. Elves make remarkably suitable companions for immortals, given their
long lifespans, so it’s no surprise that more dhampirs are born among elves
than nearly any other ancestry besides humans. Dhampir elves find the pace
of elf culture a suitable match for their own prolonged lifespans—though
these communities are rarely welcoming to their half-dead kin.
Of all the ancestries dhampirs are born into, goblins are perhaps the most
accepting of their half-living kin—largely because goblins vary so much that
the physical features of a dhampir goblin are largely
unremarkable. They are admittedly less common than
dhampirs of most other ancestries, and their longevity
is often balanced by the fact that dhampir goblins are no less
reckless or ebullient than any other goblin.
As creatures suffused with vibrant life force, gnomes rarely
deal with the undead, and so dhampir gnomes are remarkably
rare. The infusion of undeath into such an exuberant ancestry mutes
a dhampir gnome’s color and vivacity, giving them an appearance and
demeanor surprisingly similar to those few gnomes who have survived
the Bleaching.
 Halflings have long lived alongside humans, whether recognized or
not. Since vampires lurk most frequently among human cultures, their
influence extends out among halflings as well, leading to a population
of dhampir halflings that would surprise most. The close-knit nature
of many halfling communities means that dhampir halflings are less
ostracized and face less discrimination than dhampirs of other ancestries,
and the optimism of halfling culture encourages dhampir halflings toward a
friendlier, more open disposition than most.
As vampires primarily exist among and draw from human cultures, dhampir
humans are the most common of their kind, and they vary as much as human
cultures do. Given this disparity, perhaps the only thing dhampir humans
have in common is the distrust they face among most human communities,
likely due to the fact that humans are a vampire’s most common prey.
ANCESTRY FEATS
The following ancestry feats are available to dhampirs.
1ST LEVEL
ADHYABHAU
 FEAT 1
DHAMPIR
LINEAGE
You descend from the rare psychic vampires known as vetalaranas. Your forebear
gained sustenance from the mental and emotional energy of living creatures, which
manifests in you as powerful resistance to such effects. You gain a +1 circumstance
Dhampir Adventurers
Outsider status combined with
supernatural abilities make dhampirs
natural adventurers. The criminal,
hermit, nomad, and street urchin
backgrounds are common among
dhampirs, while those with better
fortune might have the acolyte,
noble, or scholar backgrounds.
Dhampirs who practice magic are
often undead-bloodline sorcerers,
wizards of the necromancy school, or
occasionally oracles APG or witches APG.
Those who have learned to fend
for themselves might be rogues or
swashbucklers APG, and those who
seek to slay undead might choose
champion or ranger.
ANCESTRY
GUIDE
EXPANDED
ANCESTRIES
AND
HERITAGES
NEW
ANCESTRIES
AND
HERITAGES
ANCESTRAL
GEAR
GLOSSARY
AND INDEX
