18
CATFOLK ANCESTRY FEATS
As a catfolk, you can select from among the following ancestry feats.
1ST LEVEL
CAT NAP
FEAT 1
CATFOLK
CONCENTRATE
EXPLORATION
You can briefly sleep to regain your energy quickly. Once per hour, by sleeping
for 10 minutes, you can gain temporary Hit Points equal to your level that last for
10 minutes.
CATFOLK DANCE [one-action]
FEAT 1
CATFOLK
You have a habit of always being in the way when other creatures attempt to move.
Attempt an Acrobatics check against an adjacent creature’s Reflex DC.
Critical Success The target creature gains a –2 circumstance penalty to Reflex saves
and is flat-footed until the start of your next turn.
Success The target creature gains a –2 circumstance penalty to Reflex saves until
the start of your next turn.
SABER TEETH
FEAT 1
CATFOLK
You have long fangs, natural or augmented. You gain a jaws unarmed attack that deals
1d6 piercing damage. Your jaws are in the brawling group and have the unarmed trait.
WINTER CAT SENSES
FEAT 1
CATFOLK
Prerequisites winter catfolk heritage APG
Your eyes are keen and accustomed to winter conditions. You ignore concealment
caused by ice and snow.
5TH LEVEL
FOCUSED CAT NAP
FEAT 5
CATFOLK
Prerequisites Cat Nap, focus pool
When you Cat Nap, you can also Refocus as you dream of a relevant activity.
GRACEFUL GUIDANCE
FEAT 5
CATFOLK
You can demonstrate how to quickly twist out of the way of dangerous effects. You
can use the Aid reaction to grant a bonus to an ally’s Reflex save. As usual for Aid, you
need to prepare by using an action on your turn to encourage the ally.
LUCKY BREAK
FEAT 5
CATFOLK
Prerequisites Cat’s Luck APG
You catch yourself as you make a mistake. You can trigger Cat’s Luck
when you fail or critically fail on an Athletics or Acrobatics skill check, in
addition to its normal trigger. When you do, you reroll the triggering skill
check and use the better result. This still counts against Cat’s Luck’s
frequency, as normal.
PRIDE HUNTER
FEAT 5
CATFOLK
You avoid the attention of creatures
focused on your allies. You can use
lesser cover from your allies to Hide.
Catfolk Luck
Catfolk are known for their luck,
which they traditionally draw from
spirits of creation that they’ve pleased
or emulated. Many catfolk tend to
experience this luck as an insistent
urge that feels like a warning from
a benevolent presence they can’t
perceive. Others experience it as a
reflexive awareness of danger beyond
their normal senses. More spiritual
catfolk try to tune into the warnings
from the spirits of fortune through an
art known as serendipity reading.
