46
CONSULT THE STARS
FEAT 1
LIZARDFOLK
You find wisdom in the movements of the heavens. Once per day, you can spend
10 minutes to draw upon your readings of a recent night’s sky to gain the trained
proficiency rank in one skill of your choice; the chosen skill’s key attribute must
be Charisma, Intelligence, or Wisdom. This proficiency lasts until your next daily
preparation. Since this proficiency is temporary, you can’t use it as a prerequisite for
a skill increase or a permanent character option like a feat.
LIGHTNING TONGUE [one-action]
FEAT 1
LIZARDFOLK
Your tongue darts out faster than the eye can see to retrieve loose objects. You
Interact to pick up a single unattended object of light Bulk or less within 10 feet of
you. If you don’t have enough hands free to hold the object, it falls to the ground
in your space.
REPTILE RIDER
FEAT 1
LIZARDFOLK
To you, crocodilians, giant lizards, and dinosaurs are loyal steeds, not monsters.
You gain the Ride feat, even if you don’t meet the prerequisites. You gain a +1
circumstance bonus to Nature checks to Handle an Animal as long as the animal
is a reptile, dinosaur, or even a non-sapient dragon.
5TH LEVEL
FLEXIBLE TAIL
FEAT 5
LIZARDFOLK
You can perform simple Interact actions with your tail, such as opening an
unlocked door. Your tail can’t perform actions that require fingers or significant
manual dexterity, including any action that
would require a check to accomplish, and you
can’t use it to hold items.
GUIDED BY THE STARS [free-action]
FEAT 5
FORTUNE
LIZARDFOLK
Frequency once per day
Trigger You are about to attempt a skill check or saving

throw.
The stars grant you insights that guide your actions. You
roll twice and take the better result. If it’s night and you
can see the stars, you gain a +1 circumstance bonus to
the triggering roll.
IRUXI GLIDE [one-action]
FEAT 5
LIZARDFOLK
Prerequisites cloudleaper lizardfolk heritage
You glide slowly toward the ground, 5 feet down and up
to 25 feet forward through the air. As long as you spend
at least 1 action gliding each round and haven’t yet reached the
ground, you remain in the air at the end of your turn.
TONGUE DISARM [one-action]
FEAT 5
LIZARDFOLK
Prerequisites trained in Athletics, Lightning Tongue
You lash out with your tongue to disarm your foe. You
attempt to Disarm a creature within 10 feet, ignoring
the requirement that you must have at least one
 hand free.
Iruxi
While most lizardfolk permit humans
and others to refer to them by that
moniker, they call themselves iruxi.
This ancient word arose from the
Draconic tongue, though its exact
etymology is unclear. In Droon, iruxi
astronomers point to the jagged
constellation of the Maw and the
starry figure who stands against it.
Today, while this constellation is called
the Lone Mother and features in fables
about environmental conservation, she
once had another name in dragon lore:
Erux, meaning “defiance.”
