The elements themselves flow through the veins of geniekin, mortals who carry the proud
legacy of their elemental ancestors.
Geniekin
98
The strength of mountains, the swiftness of wind, the
heat of flame, and the fluidity of tides—geniekin are
made of elemental energy as much as they are flesh and
blood. They are planar scions, the descendants of unions
between mortals and otherworldly creatures from
beyond Golarion. For geniekin, these planar ancestors
are elementals, most often genies, who have altered their
families and physiologies forever. Because the category
encompasses a wide range of elemental heritages,
geniekin vary greatly in appearance. All geniekin clearly
read as members of their humanoid ancestry, but some
supernatural element always sets them apart.
Occasionally, a geniekin child is born to wholly mortal
parents who were exposed to powerful elemental forces,
or their extraplanar traits might skip one or several
generations. Geniekin who grow up without the benefit
of an elemental mentor can sometimes have trouble
navigating mortal society or understanding what makes
them different.
GENIEKIN OVERVIEW
The following are the most common kinds of geniekin.
More information on each kind of geniekin is found in
the following sections from pages 100–119.
iFrit
Ifrits are geniekin descended from fire elementals, like
efreet and salamanders. If you want a character who
embodies the intensity, energy, and hunger of elemental
fire, you should play an ifrit.
oreaD
Oreads are geniekin descended from earth elementals,
like shaitans and zaramuuns. If you want a character
who embodies the strength, stubbornness, and resilience
of elemental earth, you should play an oread.
suli
Sulis are geniekin descended from jann, genies that walk
Golarion, though they are sometimes also born as the
children of geniekin parents tied to opposing elements.
If you want a character who embodies the complex
relationships between elemental energies, with an innate
planar connection to both the elemental planes and
Golarion, you should play a suli.
sylPh
Sylphs are geniekin descended from air elementals, like
djinn and invisible stalkers. If you want a character who
embodies the freedom, caprice, and speed of elemental air,
you should play a sylph.
