47
9TH LEVEL
BONE CALLER
FEAT 9
LIZARDFOLK
Using a mixture of dinosaur bones and the bones of your ancestors to focus your
magic, you animate lizards and dinosaurs to carry messages or serve as mounts.
You can cast animal messenger and phantom steed as primal innate spells once per
day each. The animal messenger is always a Tiny dinosaur or lizard, and your innate
spell transforms it from bones to flesh, even if there are no dinosaurs or lizards
nearby. The phantom steed looks like a dinosaur rather
than a horse but functions identically.
DANGLE
FEAT 9
LIZARDFOLK
Prerequisites Flexible Tail
You can hang by your tail from any suitable anchor point, such
as a tree branch, balcony, or rocky outcropping (subject to the GM’s
discretion), typically while climbing. While hanging, you have free
use of all your other limbs, so you can perform tasks that require
both hands, such as firing a bow or swinging a greatsword.
READ THE STARS
FEAT 9
LIZARDFOLK
Prerequisites trained in Astrology Lore or Occultism
You’re incredibly skilled in iruxi astrology, and you can gain
useful (if cryptic) hints from the stars’ alignment. Once per night,
if you can clearly see the stars, you can spend 1 hour reading
the heavens to see how they relate to a particular goal, event, or
activity that will occur within 1 week. The GM rolls a secret check, either a DC
28 Astrology Lore check or a DC 32 Occultism check. On a success, you learn a
cryptic clue or piece of advice that could help with the chosen event, and on a
critical failure, you learn a misleading cryptic clue or piece of advice.
13TH LEVEL
BONE INVESTITURE
FEAT 13
LIZARDFOLK
You encase yourself in spiritual dinosaur bones to become a Huge
dinosaur. You can cast dinosaur form on yourself as a 5th-level
primal innate spell once per day.
IRUXI SPIRIT STRIKE
FEAT 13
LIZARDFOLK
Your iruxi unarmed attacks channel the spiritual energy of your
ancestors. Any unarmed attacks you acquire from iruxi heritages or
ancestry feats gain the effects of a ghost touch property rune (Core
Rulebook 584).
17TH LEVEL
SCION TRANSFORMATION
FEAT 17
LIZARDFOLK
PRIMAL
TRANSMUTATION
You go into hibernation for 24 hours and perform a ritual dedicated
to your ancestors, undergoing a one-time metamorphosis. You
permanently gain the effects of enlarge, and your maximum Hit
Points increase by your level. The ritual transforms most of your
gear to the appropriate size for your new body (though powerful items like artifacts
or items strongly tied to their original size may not transform, at the GM’s discretion).
Iruxi Ancestors
Ancestor worship is central to
iruxi spiritual life. Lizardfolk keep
their elders’ physical remains
close, incorporating them into the
architecture of their settlements.
The bones of deceased iruxi shore up
protective walls and fill great vaulting
ossuaries. Preserved and suffused
with ritual veneration, these bones
become magical reservoirs of power.
It’s rumored that in times of great need,
iruxi ancestors will reanimate their
bones and fight for their descendants.
ANCESTRY
GUIDE
EXPANDED
ANCESTRIES
AND
HERITAGES
NEW
ANCESTRIES
AND
HERITAGES
ANCESTRAL
GEAR
GLOSSARY
AND INDEX
