69
Hit Points
8
Size
Medium
Speed
25 feet
Ability Boosts
Dexterity
Intelligence
Free
Ability Flaw
Charisma
Languages
Common
Androffan
Additional languages equal to your
Intelligence modifier (if positive).
Choose from Abyssal, Celestial,
Draconic, Dwarven, Undercommon,
Utopian, and any other languages to
which you have access (such as the
languages prevalent in your region).
Traits
Android
Humanoid
Constructed
Your synthetic body resists ailments
better than those of purely biological
organisms. You gain a +1 circumstance
bonus to saving throws against
diseases, poisons, and radiation.
Emotionally Unaware
You find it difficult to understand and
express complex emotions. You take a
–1 circumstance penalty to Diplomacy
and Performance checks, and on
Perception checks to Sense Motive.
Low-Light Vision
You can see in dim light as though it
were bright light, and you ignore the
concealed condition due to dim light.
convincing over time, causing them to look more artificial. After a century, most
androids feel their time coming to an end and willingly release their souls to the
Boneyard to face Pharasma’s judgment. Their bodies then shut down, entering
a lifeless hibernation as their nanites begin restoration protocol and reset their
synthetic bodies to their original manufactured state. After a few weeks, a new
soul enters the android’s form, triggering reinitialization. This process, called
Renewal, is an event to be celebrated, akin to bearing a child. Those that die by
violence can’t Renew, so androids go to great lengths to protect themselves and
their brethren from harm.
society
Androids have a history of being exploited, enslaved, and destroyed by their
Numerian neighbors, so they hide in order to survive. Most choose to keep
their ancestry secret by integrating into human society or by adapting to a
nomadic lifestyle. Some androids eschew humanity to live among their kind.
Such groups often remain small by necessity; while a pair of androids can avoid
danger through careful secrecy, large groups attract too much attention.
Android communities are efficient and highly organized. Each citizen
understands their role and takes pride in filling it effectively. Debates and
lectures frequently occur, as androids seek to understand themselves and their
world through education and inquiry. These insular and secretive enclaves
relocate when discovered.
Alignment And religion
Most androids are neutral. They care for their own safety and that of their
companions and their kind. Androids interested in religion usually worship
Casandalee or Brigh, goddesses that unite invention and life. Other popular
deities include Desna, Irori, and Gozreh.
nAmes
Androids adopt the naming conventions of their surrounding societies, while
those raised among their own kind instead select a single name that utilizes
Androffan phonology. Occasionally, such androids add a numerical designation
to their names, denoting how many generations their body has hosted life as a
kind of homage to their bloodline.
sAmple nAmes
Anati, Daniv, Era-4, Feralia, Gelegor, Ilgos-5, Koresh, Oris, Prime, Urdun,
Verity-3, Ymry
ANDROIDS OF THE INNER SEA
Androids can be found throughout the Inner Sea in small numbers, hiding
among humanity, though the vast majority reside in Numeria. Aware that new
androids are still birthed in forgotten foundries, most prefer to stay nearby to
mentor their newborn kin rather than leave.
Traditionally, Numerian androids encounter two major enemies. First are
the nefarious Technic League, greedy spellcasters who claim all technology in
Numeria as their own; under Technic League rule, androids lived enslaved as
technological marvels for the curious to disassemble and understand. Second
are the local Kellids, who believe all technology must be buried or destroyed—
androids included. But change has come to Numeria. The Technic League is
shattered, and the spellcasters that remain have allied with local gangs and
warlords. Most Kellids still view androids as taboo but no longer kill them on
sight. In the hinterlands, some citizens are slowly shaking loose their fear and
prejudice, as the faiths of Casandalee and Brigh pave the way for reconciliation.
A few leaders, including the Black Sovereign, have offered androids the hand
of friendship, welcoming them into their lives and communities. Despite this
promising turn, however, most androids remain cautious.
ANCESTRY
GUIDE
EXPANDED
ANCESTRIES
AND
HERITAGES
NEW
ANCESTRIES
AND
HERITAGES
ANCESTRAL
GEAR
GLOSSARY
AND INDEX
