122
Kitsune Adventurers
Kitsune who live among others
often have the charlatan, emissary,
entertainer, fortune teller, merchant,
noble, or nomad backgrounds. Those
kitsune who strike out alone favor the
acolyte, bandit, or hermit backgrounds.
Kitsune often excel as rogues,
investigators APG, and bards. Kitsune
who hone their magical abilities lean
more toward sorcerers or oracles, and
those who forge a stronger connection
to the spirits may become witches.
greater familiarity with living in a world of shapeshifters, often represented by
the Myriad Forms and Shapechanger’s Intuition ancestry feats.
hwaeko
Hwaeko kitsune live in scattered groups in and around the Chang Lio Jungle in
otherwise-peaceful Hwanggot. They tend to have lean builds, bristling dark fur,
and golden eyes. Long ago, Imperial Lung Wa drove these kitsune underground
and chased them to the edges of society. Many Hwaeko were forced to survive by
scavenging vegetables and less desirable cuts of meat like liver. This persecution
caused the majority of Hwaeko kitsune to develop an antagonistic and
misanthropic view of “civilization,” with many reluctant to reveal themselves as
kitsune at all. Some with fox forms eschew society altogether, living as foxes in
the wilds and coming into town only rarely—perhaps for a harvest festival, at the
new year, or as part of a “fox pilgrimage,” a practice where they test themselves
by living among non-kitsune as long as they can without detection.
Hwaeko kitsune often have the earthly wilds or dark fields kitsune heritage.
rengo
Every so often, when a caravan crossed the Crown of the World or a ship
sailed across the seas to Avistan, a kitsune numbered among the passengers.
Over time, these kitsune established a presence in distant Avistan. Though
Irrisen and Varisia have the highest kitsune concentration, some kitsune
live sprinkled throughout the large population centers of the
Inner Sea, such as Absalom.
Rengo kitsune tend toward dark brown or red fur. Practical
skills useful on the frontier are valued more than philosophic
meditation, leading Rengo kitsune to focus on trade skills such as farming
and artisanship. However, even in the Inner Sea region, kitsune retain a
connection to the unseen, incorporating local soothsaying traditions such
as harrow reading or tasseography into their customs.
Rengo kitsune often have the frozen wind kitsune heritage.
souko
While all kitsune, on some level, bridge the boundary between the material
world and the world of the spirits, Souko kitsune embody this role fully.
From their brightly painted settlement of Kihime in the Forest of Spirits,
Souko kitsune serve as couriers, diplomats, and translators between
distant kami, especially the ancient kami lords known as jinushigami,
who rarely move from the mountains and lakes they protect. Those
Souko kitsune who live outside of Kihime walk among the settlements
of northern Minkai and eastern Hongal, where they liaise with other
mortal peoples on behalf of the spirits. Their cultural emphasis on
ambassadorship means Souko kitsune tend to strongly separate their
internal and outwardly expressed feelings, modulating their expressions
based on the audience. Similarly, Souko kitsune tend to remain in tailless form
when among other ancestries out of a desire to present a more familiar face.
Many kitsune believe that Souko kitsune are closest to the Nine Bright
Grains—the originators of the kitsune people that legend states Daikitsu sent
to the Material Plane—and almost all are faithful Daikitsuns, incorporating
many of the Lady of Foxes’ rites into their everyday society. Souko kitsune’s
fur tends toward paler shades, with reddish streaks and patches that grow in
unnaturally symmetrical, runelike patterns.
Souko kitsune often have the celestial envoy or empty sky kitsune heritage.
KITSUNE HERITAGES
The form kitsune take varies between individuals, with tales stating that their
alternate form represents their connection to magical and spiritual influences.
Choose one of the following kitsune heritages at 1st level.
