70
AndroFFAn
Androids have long sought to uncover their history and purpose, but Androffan
androids take this search a step further. They seek not just knowledge, but
information of their former home of Androffa to revive their lost culture.
Androffans delve into technological ruins for clues to their people’s past and
purpose, to hunt for foundries, and to unlock the mysteries of space travel. They
wear clothing and jewelry modeled on attire scavenged from starship wreckage:
work boots, flight suits, wristbands, identification cards, and military insignia.
Unlike most android enclaves, some Androffans live within the ruins they
explore. Most individuals are nomadic, traveling from site to site to perform
archaeological excavations, but the largest groups are sedentary, living along the
slopes of Silver Mount in the effective heart of Androffan society.
chAsm
While most survivors from the Rain of Stars found themselves wandering
Golarion’s surface, Chasm androids escaped the wreckage into the depths of
the Darklands. Isolated, afraid, and with few resources at their disposal, they
became scavengers, repairing and repurposing scrap and salvage to survive.
Wall panels, wires, and torn nylon became material for clothes, rope, and tools;
plastic became armor and dishes; and the few bits of functioning technology
they found became cultural touchstones—the last vestiges of when their people
flew across the stars.
Alien in appearance, Chasm androids have modified their bodies to better
function in the Darklands. They have larger ears and eyes and slender bodies;
they can also throw their limbs in and out of their joints.
mAny-soUled
Android philosophers have long wondered
about the miracle of Renewal—while it’s
well-known that a Renewed android is a wholly
new person with no memory of their body’s
previous experiences, many androids dream of
their past lives. Many-Souled androids believe that
nanites are the key to this mystery, housing their
former memories and intelligences.
Many-Souled androids live as if their body serves as
a shared vessel for two symbiotic beings. They meditate
often, hoping to commune with the nanites within them.
Many-Souled androids that choose to form life-bonds
with another android—typically bonds of friendship,
love, or mentorship—swap nanites, each urging clouds of
nanites to leave their bodies and reenter the body of their
intended. In this way, they become family, sharing blood
and memories along with their nanites.
sovereign
When the Technic League was overthrown, the Black Sovereign Kevoth-Kul
opened the doors of his palace to androids, offering them a home. Touched by
his generosity, some androids entered his halls, becoming honorary Kellids. In
the following years, these androids have dedicated themselves to adopting the
Kellid way of life. They no longer hide their heritage, instead openly embracing
their dualistic android and Kellid identities.
Sovereign androids live primarily in Starfall, the capital of Numeria and
home of Kevoth-Kul, though many have left the city to join nomadic clans
loyal to the Black Sovereign. They worship both Casandalee and traditional
Kellid gods, including Desna, Gorum, and Erastil. Sovereign androids often
become mentors, teaching their clanmates mathematics and science, while
learning about Kellid culture and faith from clan elders.
Android Adventurers
Most androids become adventurers
to protect their kin from harm or to
research the history of their people,
typically by exploring technological
ruins. Androids survive through
deception, stealth, and subterfuge,
which leads many down the path of
the rogue. Others embrace their thirst
for knowledge and understanding by
becoming alchemists, monks, or wizards.
Typical android backgrounds include
hermit, nomad, scholar, and tinker.
