136
ANCESTRY FEATS
At 1st level, you gain one ancestry feat, and you gain an additional ancestry
feat every 4 levels thereafter (at 5th, 9th, 13th, and 17th levels). As a strix, you
select from among the following ancestry feats.
1ST LEVEL
NESTLING FALL
FEAT 1
STRIX
You trust the strength of your wings and can spread them to glide safely to the
ground. As long as you can act, you take no damage from falling, no matter what
distance you fall.
STORY CROONER
FEAT 1
STRIX
You’re a talented story weaver and use your voice effectively. You are trained in
Performance. If you would automatically become trained in Performance, you instead
become trained in a skill of your choice. You also gain the Impressive Performance
skill feat and gain a +1 circumstance bonus when Performing for an audience of strix.
STRIX DEFENDER
FEAT 1
STRIX
Your ancestral feud with humans gives you experience dealing
with vicious foes, and your vengeance knows no bounds. You
gain a +1 circumstance bonus to Intimidation, Perception,
and Survival checks against humans, as well as on damage
rolls against humans with weapons and unarmed attacks.
However, your hatred of humans is immediately obvious,
giving you a –2 circumstance penalty to Diplomacy checks
against them and usually starting their attitude one step
worse towards you.
STRIX LORE
FEAT 1
STRIX
You’re well connected to your tribe and perhaps even strix
communities beyond your own, where you’ve learned about
the land and techniques of graceful movement. You gain the
trained proficiency rank in Acrobatics and Nature. If you would
automatically become trained in one of those skills (from your
background or class, for example), you instead become trained
in a skill of your choice. You also become trained in Strix Lore.
5TH LEVEL
FEATHERED CLOAK
FEAT 5
STRIX
To blend in with the grounded and wingless, you fold your wings just
so on your back, creating the illusion of a feathered cloak. You receive
a +2 circumstance bonus to Deception checks to Impersonate a version of
yourself who is not a strix.
Additionally, your folded wings help you obscure objects on your person,
providing a +2 circumstance bonus to Stealth checks to Conceal an Object.
FLEDGLING FLIGHT [one-action]
FEAT 5
STRIX
Frequency once per round
You can fly through the air in short bursts at half your land Speed. If you don’t end
your movement on solid ground, you fall at the end of your turn.
Strix Storytelling
Strix utilize storytelling to convey
a verbal history of their people and
perform poetic tales that sound like
songs when sung in their native
tongue. Nestling strix grow up hearing
their histories sung to them as
lullabies and serenades of daily life.
Powerful moments are punctuated
with screeches, and mournful recounts
float in the air like soft cooing. One
common story tells of a vengeful strix
whose wings turned gloriously red,
but who hid his face with a mask,
ashamed of the actions that led to his
glory. Another crooned to nestlings
warns of a mysterious parasite that
hides in filthy feathers.
