27
TASTE BLOOD [one-action]
FEAT 5
DHAMPIR
NECROMANCY
NEGATIVE
Prerequisites Cel Rau, Straveika, Svetocher, or another lineage from a vampire with
the Drink Blood ability
You retain not only your vampiric parent’s taste for blood but their ability to gain
vitality from it. You drink fresh blood from a living humanoid creature, gaining
temporary Hit Points equal to the target’s level that last for 10 minutes. The target
must succeed at a Fortitude save against the higher of your class DC or spell DC or
become drained 1. Regardless of the outcome of this save, the target is temporarily
immune to your Taste Blood for 1 day; further uses of this ability against the target
don’t increase the drained condition or grant you more temporary Hit Points.
To drink a creature’s blood, either your last action must have been a fangs Strike
that damaged the target, or the target must be restrained or unconscious and your
last action must have been a Strike that dealt piercing or slashing damage to them.
If the target is willing, they don’t need to be restrained or unconscious for the latter.
Draining the life force from an unwilling humanoid creature is a greater violation
than just drinking their blood. Taste Blood has the evil trait unless the target is
willing or is an active foe in combat.
UNDEAD COMPANION
FEAT 5
DHAMPIR
Prerequisites an animal companion or a familiar
Your companion is also touched by undeath, a mix of a traditional companion and
a skeleton, zombie, or stranger form of unlife. Your companion gains the undead
trait instead of the animal trait and gains negative healing. It otherwise uses the
normal rules for an animal companion or familiar; that means it can still be
affected by many conditions or effects to which most undead are immune.
9TH LEVEL
SLIP INTO SHADOW
FEAT 9
DHAMPIR
Prerequisites ability to cast at least one spell with the darkness trait
Your shadow magic bleeds into the space around you. Whenever you cast a
spell with the darkness trait, a lingering aura of shadows reduces bright light
within a 5-foot emanation around you to dim light until the end of your turn.
Like in natural dim light, you can use these shadows to Hide, but the aura still
makes your overall position obvious, so you can’t become undetected through
the use of these shadows alone.
13TH LEVEL
DAYWALKER
FEAT 13
DHAMPIR
Whether through painstaking exposure, devoted prayer, or simple luck, you’ve
found a greater affinity for life through the sun’s light. When in an area of direct
natural sunlight, your negative healing is suppressed, meaning you are healed by
positive healing effects and harmed by negative energy.
17TH LEVEL
TWIST HEALING
FEAT 17
DHAMPIR
Prerequisites ability to cast heal and harm
Your connection to both life and undeath lets you twist the healing
power of magic items to suit your own needs and aims. Whenever
you Activate an Item to cast a heal spell, you can invert its energy to
produce the effects of an equivalent harm spell instead.
Strigoi
The first vampires arrived on Golarion
from the Shadow Plane, but most have
died out, gone into hiding, returned
to the Shadow Plane, or evolved into
modern vampires. Those ancient few
who retain their original form are
called strigoi. These vampires aren’t
destroyed when exposed to sunlight—
instead, they enter a dormant state
from which they rise again at nightfall.
ANCESTRY
GUIDE
EXPANDED
ANCESTRIES
AND
HERITAGES
NEW
ANCESTRIES
AND
HERITAGES
ANCESTRAL
GEAR
GLOSSARY
AND INDEX
