Kobold
36
Kobolds live throughout Golarion, with hundreds—if not thousands—of tribes
located in the upper Darklands and some secluded, often difficult-to-traverse
surface locales. Smaller tribes often manage to find a niche so minor that no
others bother to contest them for it, while larger tribes forge alliances with
powerful patrons, usually dragons, that they serve in return for protection.
KOBOLDS OF THE INNER SEA
While kobolds can often pose a nuisance to members of other ancestries, they
rarely gather in huge numbers and aren’t known for forming massive armies
to siege cities or attack nations. When they present a greater threat, it’s often
in conjunction with some other creature or group, such as a patron dragon or
group of larger allies. These allies are usually credited with being the “true”
threat, so small kobold groups have gained a modest level of acceptance among
settlements that are otherwise unkind to outsiders. A band of 20 to 30 kobolds
might be seen as a raiding party, and an assembly of hundreds would certainly
be received as an army, but a single kobold, or group of four to six, is generally
seen as an annoyance at worst, and more often a curiosity. After all, how much
damage could just a few kobolds do?
Rather than take offense at this attitude, kobolds see it as a sign of other
ancestries’ foolishness. Immensely practical, kobolds happily take advantage of
their reputation as cowards and weaklings. Many kobolds are perfectly happy to
cringe and grovel to survive, never feeling any shame for doing so. This is due in
large part to kobolds’ self-confidence. They’re told from hatching of their kinship
to dragons, and that nothing others say or do can in any way reduce this glory.
The following are some of the best-known tribes of the Inner Sea region.
danKBlade Crew oF the ShaCKleS
The black-scaled Dankblade Tribe tunneled their way up from the
Darklands into a sea cave on the Shackles’ Raptor Island. They soon
discovered that the nearby pirate battles and dangerous nautical hazards
frequently caused useful goods to float ashore. The tribe delightedly
accepted these seaborne tributes, took to dressing in any nautical garb
they found, and renamed themselves the Dankblade Crew. They sell whatever
they scavenge, and passing ships have learned it is easier to treat with the
Dankblades than fight them. Prime bits of salvage are offered up to the brine
dragon Machazmroh, who flies by from time to time. There’s no formal alliance
between the Dankblades and the dragon—but the Dankblades see no reason to
tell anyone else that.
Dankblades often have the dragonscaled or tunnelflood kobold heritage.
emBermaw triBe
In the Cinderlands, beneath the Mindspin Mountains in Varisia, the Embermaw
Tribe continues to expand its kingdom beneath the feet of unsuspecting
surface-dwellers. Allies of the red dragon Tsazgatherax, Embermaws are
red-scaled, broad-shouldered, and uniquely muscular. They mine
the Cinderlands, forge fine tools and weapons, protect their
patron’s eggs, and fend off fire giants, azers, and salamanders.
Embermaws often have the cavern or caveclimber
kobold heritage.
glaSSClaw oF KatapeSh
The Glassclaw are an old tribe that operate near, and sometimes
within, the city of Katapesh. Unlike many larger kobold tribes, they
