26
bonus to Will saves against effects with the emotion trait, and when you roll a
success on a saving throw against such an effect, you get a critical success instead.
CEL RAU
FEAT 1
DHAMPIR
LINEAGE
You are a cel rau, child of a strigoi, one of the first vampires to walk Golarion. Your
heritage ties you to the Shadow Plane and grants you strange resilience to light and
darkness alike. You gain a +1 circumstance bonus to saving throws against effects
with the darkness, light, or shadow traits, and whenever you become dazzled or
blinded for at least 2 rounds, you can reduce the duration by 1 round.
NOCTURNAL CHARM
FEAT 1
DHAMPIR
The supernatural charm of your vampiric progenitor hangs about you, and you’ve
learned to use it on mortals. Against humanoids (or other creatures of your type, if
you’re not a humanoid), you gain a +1 circumstance bonus to Deception checks to
Lie, and to Diplomacy checks to Gather Information and Make an Impression.
OLD SOUL
FEAT 1
DHAMPIR
Prerequisites at least 100 years old
Your immortal lineage has granted you a lifespan much longer than most mortals, and
you’ve learned a lot along the way. You become trained in two skills of your choice.
RU-SHI
FEAT 1
DHAMPIR
LINEAGE
You were born to a jiang-shi, one of the so-called hopping vampires found
most often in Tian-Xia. Your parent had a supernatural obsession with
counting small objects, which manifests in you as a preternatural gift
for linguistics and mathematics. You are trained in Society and gain the
Eye for Numbers skill feat (Advanced Player’s Guide 206). If you would
automatically become trained in Society (from your background or
class, for example), you instead become trained in a skill of your choice.
5TH LEVEL
FEED ON PAIN [reaction]
FEAT 5
DHAMPIR
Prerequisites Adhyabhau
Frequency once per hour
Trigger You deal mental damage.
The psychic feedback of another creature’s pain fills you with false life. You
gain temporary Hit Points equal to half the mental damage you dealt from
the triggering effect. If the triggering action dealt mental damage to multiple
creatures, calculate these temporary Hit Points using the creature that took
the most damage. You lose any remaining temporary Hit Points after 1 minute.
HOPPING STRIDE [one-action]
FEAT 5
DHAMPIR
Prerequisites Ru-Shi
You’ve internalized the hopping gait of your vampiric forebear. Stride up
to a distance equal to your Speed – 10 feet. During this Stride, instead
of moving through each space normally, you hop over every
other square between your starting space and your ending
space. These hops aren’t high enough to jump over a creature
or other significant obstacle in your way, but they avoid
difficult terrain, hazardous terrain, pressure plates, or hazards on
the ground or up to a foot above it in the spaces you hopped over.
Dhampir Settlements
The Darklands city of Nemret Noktoria
is home to a small, isolated enclave of
dhampirs born to the city’s vampire
ambassadors. A similar dhampir
community in the city of Kaer Maga
welcomes kin from across the Inner Sea
region. In Ustalav and the far reaches of
Vudra, a few dhampir villages exist—but
as the personal projects of vampires,
these hamlets become horrors at night.
