Duskwalker
28
Once, having been convinced by a powerful olethros advocate, a yamaraj
psychopomp judge decreed that, after death, certain souls could reincarnate
and walk Golarion once more. The children of this ancient pact became
known as duskwalkers. In their previous incarnation, every duskwalker
somehow served the cycle of life and death—but their time was cut short
until the machinery of psychopomp bureaucracy gave them another life. Born
anew, each duskwalker appears near the site of their past existence, a strange
child with an old soul and an
uncertain destiny.
DUSKWALKERS
OF THE INNER
SEA
Even by the generous standards in the
Inner Sea region, duskwalkers have odd
upbringings. They come into existence with
some measure of their past incarnation’s
memories, but they have roughly the
faculties and form of an 8-year-old child.
Each duskwalker once had a specific
destiny—but these destinies have failed in the
Age of Lost Omens, and duskwalkers are under
no obligation to follow them. In fact, only a few
duskwalkers ever receive any sort of guidance from
psychopomps or the Boneyard during their lives.
Duskwalkers are perhaps the rarest planar scions, with many going their
entire lives without meeting others of their kind. As a result of their unique
reincarnation, however, duskwalkers who do meet feel a strong sense of shared
identity. Duskwalkers tend to be hesitant to discuss their origins—not out of
shame or fear, but simply because the truth often makes people uncomfortable.
Many claim unusual but ultimately mundane origins, explaining away their
appearance with reference to fictional parents from far-off lands. Duskwalkers
are also prone to a degree of asceticism. Gratuitous hedonism or conspicuous
consumption feel somehow small in the face of death’s reality, a waste of time and
energy that could be better spent in other ways. They’re usually companionable,
understanding, and accepting of others. While incapable of having children and
generally uninterested in carnal pleasures, many duskwalkers seek to build a
family, often adopting children others would overlook.
Nearly every duskwalker develops strong feelings about their previous
incarnation, devoting great effort to learning about their former life. How a
duskwalker reacts to that knowledge varies—some idolize their past lives and
seek to complete their predecessor’s unfinished destiny, while others try to undo
and overturn every act out of philosophical opposition. Rare, however, is the
duskwalker who has only mild interest in their past self.
Physically, duskwalkers tend toward the monochromatic, as their skin, hair,
and eyes trend towards white, gray, black, or desaturated blue shades. Some
duskwalkers have more unusual features, such as patches of scales or feathers,
based on the their previous incarnation’s nature and actions. Their tendency
towards asceticism means that most duskwalkers dress in whatever garb is
common in their lands, though the occasional stylish soul dons robes of pure
white or black or takes on symbols of death.
Duskwalker dwarves tend to have black eyes, sometimes called mirror eyes
for the way they reflect light like those of a cat. In the Sky-Citadel of Kraggodan,
