57
Konoha tengu often have the skyborn or taloned tengu heritage.
kWanlai tEnGu
The single largest concentration of tengu on Golarion resides in the nation
of Kwanlai, part of the ancestral homelands of the tengu people. Though
the citizens of Kwanlai take pride in their country and heritage, they’re
a people of strong passions and strong contradictions—some revere
beautiful shrines crammed in the forgotten back-alleys of ill-planned
slums, while others boast of beloved family heirlooms before gambling
them away in low-class dice halls. Few peoples can claim a stronger sense
of solidarity than the tengu of Kwanlai, however, who still cherish the
strength of community that helped them survive more than 400 years with
an uncertain future.
Kwanlai tengu have no strong inclinations toward any specific heritage.
takatEnGu
Residing among the tall mountain peaks of Minkai, takatengu
notably appear much taller and broader in stature than other
tengu. They highly value asceticism, martial prowess, and discipline.
These tengu typically prefer simple clothing in muted colors, often
matching the style of other Minkai ascetic groups. Takatengu tend to
focus on the elements of a simple life, centering their days around
farming, crafting, and training for combat. All tengu are responsible
for providing for the community; beyond that obligation, they can
focus on whatever art, craft, or combat style catches their fancy—so
long as they excel at it. Takatengu have a reputation for being some of
the finest warriors and swordsmiths on Golarion and take great pride
in this prestige, meaning tengu who can’t live up to these expectations
likely won’t thrive.
Takatengu often have the mountainkeeper or skyborn
tengu heritage. They also commonly take the Long-Nosed
FormAPG ancestry feat.
TENGU HERITAGES
The following heritages are available to tengu.
dOGtOOth tEnGu
In addition to a beak, your mouth also features a number of vicious, pointed
teeth. Some legends claim your powerful jaws can even bite through steel.
While you aren’t that strong yet, your fangs can still leave terrible wounds.
Your beak unarmed attack gains the deadly d8 trait.
WavEdivEr tEnGu
You’re one of the rare tengu who can cut through water like a bird through
air, and you often lurk in rivers or oceans where few expect you. You gain
a swim Speed of 15 feet.
ANCESTRY FEATS
The following ancestry feats are available to tengu.
1ST LEVEL
MARINER’S FIRE
FEAT 1
TENGU
You conjure uncanny orbs of spiritual flame that float above or below the
water’s surface. You can cast the produce flame cantrip as a primal innate
spell at will, heightened to a spell level equal to half your level rounded
up. You can cast this cantrip underwater.
Tengu Settlements
The majority of tengu enclaves are
found either in the Tian Xia nation
of Kwanlai or on the continent
of Garund; Kwanlai is part of the
ancestral tengu homelands, while
tengu communities on the Garund
coast resulted from a troubling
combination of lucrative job
opportunities and kidnapping. Tengu
also have a sizable presence in the
nation of Minkai and the Forest of
Spirits, and scattered communities
dot much of northeast Tian Xia.
ANCESTRY
GUIDE
EXPANDED
ANCESTRIES
AND
HERITAGES
NEW
ANCESTRIES
AND
HERITAGES
ANCESTRAL
GEAR
GLOSSARY
AND INDEX
