41
role as protectors to heart and are the most likely to worship green men.
Reflective leshys value honesty and clear-eyed introspection; they’re
particularly sensitive to changes around and within them, such as the cycle
of seasons and the ways they grow from their experiences, though they often
embrace these changes and revel in their beauty, content to spend hours in
meditation. Ritualist leshys are collectors. In addition to gathering objects
significant to their current lives, they also proclaim the hidden power in other
objects. Sometimes dismissed as mere superstition, these pronouncements
are typically rooted either in their innate sense of other nature spirits or
in faint memories of their past lives. Sunbeam leshys value diplomacy and
alliance-building. Best known for their cheerful dispositions, sunbeams aren’t
without guile. Many willingly use trickery or manipulation to avoid conflicts
or to secure advantages. Hot-headed and quick-thinking thornspark leshys
are the first to spring into action against anyone who would dare to threaten
their allies or wards. Wandersoul leshys constantly seek out new experiences,
often spending their lives as travelers, explorers, and storytellers.
Leshy bodies don’t age and are theoretically immortal. With such long
lifespans, even the most daring leshys find value in periods of patient reflection.
They typically remain the guardian of a single location for many years. Most
leshys eventually lose their bodies to violence or mishap, exploding in a
verdant burst that nourishes the life around them. Leshys value their lives,
but they don’t hold the same fear of death that plagues other ancestries; they
know that once their bodies fall, their spirits will return to the natural world.
Indeed, leshys rarely wish to live forever in the same form. As the centuries
pass, a leshy who has lived a rich life full of new experiences and insights
gradually spends more time in reflection and meditation. At the culmination
of these reflections, their spirit flies back to rejoin other spirits of nature,
ready to absorb all that it has learned and begin the cycle anew.
Leshy spirits can be transformed by the strong influence of other planes of
existence or sources of energy. For example, a leshy spirit continually exposed
to an artifact from Heaven might take on characteristics based on Heaven’s
lush gardens in its next body, gaining the aasimar versatile heritage (page 8).
Similarly, a spirit given form in an area corrupted by negative energy might
become a dhampir (page 24).
Leshy kinship groups are based on mutual bonds of loyalty and trust
rather than biological relationships. When leshys gather with others of their
kind, they band together in nomadic groups or long-term villages near areas
of primal significance. Such groups often include a druid with knowledge
of the rituals that create leshys, allowing their group to grow or even
call back their lost members into new bodies. When governing
themselves, leshys usually defer to expertise and wisdom rather
than arbitrary classifications like wealth or social status.
Leshy settlements flourish in all manner of natural locations,
from forest treetops and prosperous fields to deep caverns,
desert oases, and even kelp forests surrounding flourishing
coral reefs. Leshys don’t limit themselves to only the most
pristine natural locations—they can be found in nearly any
corner of Golarion that supports plant life. Most leshys live
among other ancestries as well as in druidic circles, frontier
settlements, or even cities surrounded by lush farmlands.
LESHY HERITAGES
The following heritages are available to leshys.
CaCtuS leShy
Spines cover your body. You gain a spine unarmed attack that
deals 1d6 piercing damage. Your spines are in the brawling group
and have the finesse and unarmed traits.
Green Men
The first beings to create leshys were
green men, sometimes referred to as
leshy kings. These legendary guardians
emerge when countless spirits of
nature merge and rise to divinity.
Many green men discovered how to
draw upon the connection they held
with other spirits of nature, coaxing
them into physical forms. These early
leshys worked alongside green men to
defend their verdant homes. Though
modern leshys have far more varied
motivations, many still respect and
revere the gods that first gave them a
chance at mortal life.
While green men were indifferent to
most non-plant creatures, they didn’t
scorn the assistance of druids. In time,
some green men taught trusted allies a
version of the ritual to create leshys.
ANCESTRY
GUIDE
EXPANDED
ANCESTRIES
AND
HERITAGES
NEW
ANCESTRIES
AND
HERITAGES
ANCESTRAL
GEAR
GLOSSARY
AND INDEX
