101
101
Ifrit Adventurers
Ifrits who choose to set out as
adventurers usually have backgrounds
as artisans, artists, entertainers,
and merchants. Ifrits who choose
to become champions are often
redeemers, especially when they
enter the service of Sarenrae, and ifrit
clerics tend to worship deities who
hold fire in their areas of concern,
such as Shizuru, Atreia, and Ymeri.
detractors, ifrits who tend toward mischief are rarely motivated by malice.
The most common alignments among ifrits are lawful neutral and chaotic
neutral, with the rest typically falling into true neutrality, neutral good, or
neutral evil.
Ifrits are rarely inclined to venerate Golarion’s deities, typically resenting
the strictures and rules of an organized faith, but those who do most often
worship deities of fire or the sun, such as Sarenrae and Shizuru, or one of the
Elemental Lords of Fire, like Ymeri or Atreia.
IFRITS OF THE INNER SEA
Geniekin populations usually concentrate around geographical anomalies, and
ifrits are no exception. The Inner Sea’s volcanoes, like Droskar’s Crag, Blackpeak,
and Mount Kaltafarr, are hotbeds for ifrit births, especially lavasouls. Ifrits of all
ancestries also live in higher concentration in Qadira and Kelesh, though many
are met with scorn and fear due to Qadira’s legacy of slavery.
Ifrits of dwarven ancestry often resemble azers, dwarves from the Plane of
Fire with flaming hair and beards.
Ifrit elves exemplify their ancestry’s passion. Ifrits are more common
than other geniekin among the Vourinoi elves of
Garund’s deserts. Vourinoi, already very talkative,
respect their ifrit brethren as creative storytellers
who fill every silence with conversation.
Ifrit gnomes are disproportionately born with
the brightsoul lineage. They often have skin and
hair that glows and shifts colors, and many believe
the radiant energy that suffuses these gnomes makes
them more resilient against the Bleaching. A number of ifrit
gnomes live in Andoran near Droskar’s Crag in the fey-haunted
Darkmoon Vale, especially in the service of the Queen of Darkmoon
Vale, Syntira, one of the Eleven Eternal Monarchs.
Goblins love fire, and this love for fire leads to the birth of many ifrit goblins,
most of whom are drawn to fire magic or alchemy. Ifrit goblins are often born
with obsidian teeth, ears constantly licked by flames, or skin covered in a thin
coating of ash, which causes them to leave charcoal fingerprints and dark,
sooty trails everywhere they go.
Ifrit halflings never seem to keep still, a trait exaggerated among the
anxiety-prone Iobarian Mihrini ifrits, whose fidgeting hands sometimes cause
enough friction to create tiny sparks between their fingers.
Ifrit humans vary dramatically between cultures across the Inner Sea region.
In northern Avistan, ifrits live among the semi-nomadic Varki of Icemark.
Cindersoul ifrits live among the Shoanti and Varisians of the Cinderlands,
born with eyes that crackle like the last embers of a fire; birthmarks and
tattoos that flicker with their own flames; and dark, ashy breath.
iFrit heritage (uncommon)
You descend from fire elementals or bear the mark of the Inner Spheres, and
your features illustrate the influence that elemental fire has over you. You gain
the ifrit trait, in addition to the traits from your ancestry. You gain resistance
to fire equal to half your level (minimum 1), and you treat environmental heat
effects as if they were one step less severe (incredible heat becomes extreme,
extreme heat becomes severe, and so on). You can choose from ifrit feats and
feats from your ancestry whenever you gain an ancestry feat.
IFRIT ANCESTRY FEATS
At 1st level, you gain one ancestry feat, and you gain an additional ancestry
feat every 4 levels thereafter (at 5th, 9th, 13th, and 17th levels). As an
ifrit, you can choose from among the following feats in addition to those
available from your ancestry.
ANCESTRY
GUIDE
EXPANDED
ANCESTRIES
AND
HERITAGES
NEW
ANCESTRIES
AND
HERITAGES
ANCESTRAL
GEAR
GLOSSARY
AND INDEX
