127
Hit Points
6
Size
Tiny (see sidebar on page 128)
Speed
20 feet
Ability Boosts
Dexterity
Intelligence
Free
Ability Flaw
Strength
Languages
Common
Sylvan
Additional languages equal to your
Intelligence modifier (if it’s positive).
Choose from Celestial, Draconic, Elven,
Gnomish, Goblin, Jotun, and any other
languages to which you have access
(such as the languages prevalent in
your region).
Traits
Fey
Sprite
Low-Light Vision
You can see in dim light as though it
were bright light, and you ignore the
concealed condition due to dim light.
Magical Strikes
Your inherent magic pervades your
entire being. All your Strikes are
magical, whether with unarmed
attacks or weapons.
trickster among their ranks. Among mortal deities, sprites appreciate Desna
the most, and due to her iconic depiction as a butterfly-winged woman, some
Desnan sprites claim her as one of their own. Sprites also readily comprehend
the doctrines of Cayden Cailean and Shelyn, and the goddess of beauty and
art is a particular favorite among grigs.
naMes
Sprite names are based entirely on their parents’ whimsy. Sprites often adopt
additional monikers later in life or change those assigned to them at birth;
this is neither frowned upon nor considered abnormal.
saMPle naMes
Bree, Plumgrass, Cowrie, Flit, Moth, Zephyr, Naatalu, Pinebrush, Zandivar
SPRITES ON GOLARION
Unlike almost any other ancestry, sprites have distinctive heritages that
almost always correlate to their societies, and they don’t have any consistent
ethnicities beyond that. This oddity has led many scholars to classify the
various heritages of sprites as different creatures altogether, a fact that
endlessly amuses the fey, who don’t bother correcting such hilarious mistakes.
In truth, these fairies are capable of forming families and kin groups across
their various heritages, and the fact of reincarnation in the First World means
that they don’t see ancestry in quite the same way as mortal creatures. A
sprite’s parent might die and return as a young dryad, and there wouldn’t be
anything remotely unusual about that. So too do these tiny fey quickly accept
people of every sort who make a genuine effort to know them, even those
creatures that mortals tend to find dangerous or distasteful.
Sprites on Golarion who live among their own kind typically form villages
near exciting locations. That doesn’t mean other sorts of sprites are unwelcome
but is rather a reflection of the composition of the group that set off to form
the village in the first place. Those sprites of other heritages that come to visit
or reside in an area find themselves not only completely welcome by their kin
but often especially popular.
Draxies
With colorful scales and draconic features, draxies are mischievous dragon
sprites, rivaling pixies for the title of ultimate pranksters. The first draxies were
reincarnations of Elucredassa, the mightiest faerie dragon of known draxie
history, who returned as hundreds of individual draxies when she passed on.
Since then, draxies have become more populous and spread to all corners of the
First World, as well as areas of Golarion where dragons and fey are common,
such as the Lands of the Linnorm Kings. Draxies have the same capricious
yet benevolent tendencies as their faerie dragon forebear, but they have one
exception to their flighty nature: they bond with their closest comrades for
life. Called the elucrea, this special bond can form with creatures a draxie is
particularly fond of from any ancestry—though typically only those who can
take a good joke. Fey folklore holds that the longing for the elucrea comes from
when draxies were first split from Elucredassa, as each longs to become part of
something bigger than themselves.
FireFlY sPrites
Those sprites that refer to themselves simply as sprites, sometimes called
“common” sprites or firefly sprites by scholars, are the most frequently
encountered fey in both the First World and on Golarion. These diminutive
explorers are more obsessed with magic than most, and they love studying ley
lines and magical locations. Their curiosity, wanderlust, and chaotic nature
balance their compulsive urge to protect that which they find most wonderful.
Whether it be an object, a creature, or a location, once a sprite decides to
ANCESTRY
GUIDE
EXPANDED
ANCESTRIES
AND
HERITAGES
NEW
ANCESTRIES
AND
HERITAGES
ANCESTRAL
GEAR
GLOSSARY
AND INDEX
