114
Sylph Settlements
Because sylphs are fond of travel,
there are few true sylph settlements
on Golarion. In the Shackles, many are
born near the Eye of Abendego, and
those Shackles sylphs are often drawn
to the chaotic mysteries of Ilizmagorti,
an enigmatic city run—and largely
obfuscated from outsiders—by the
Red Mantis. In the Terwa Uplands of
the western Mwangi Expanse, Mbe’ke
sylphs who pass through use their
people’s Sky Citadel as a temporary or
seasonal home.
concentration of sylph humans arise from those Mwangi descended from the
ancient Shory civilization, which used unbridled air magic to create flying cities.
sYlPh heritage (uncoMMon)
You are descended from air elementals or were born under the element’s
influence. You gain the sylph trait, in addition to the traits from your
ancestry. You also gain low-light vision or darkvision if your ancestry already
has low-light vision. You can choose from sylph feats and feats from your
ancestry whenever you gain an ancestry feat.
SYLPH ANCESTRY FEATS
At 1st level, you gain one ancestry feat, and you gain an additional ancestry
feat every 4 levels thereafter (at 5th, 9th, 13th, and 17th levels). As a sylph,
you can choose from among the following ancestry feats in addition to those
available to your ancestry.
1ST LEVEL
FUMESOUL
FEAT 1
LINEAGE
SYLPH
The air inside you asserts itself as a toxic miasma, inuring you to most poisons. You
gain resistance to poison equal to half your level (minimum 1).
SMOKESOUL
FEAT 1
LINEAGE
SYLPH
You have a connection to smoke and haze. You gain the Smoke Blending reaction.
Smoke Blending [reaction] (sylph) Trigger A creature attempts a flat check to target you
because you’re concealed or hidden due to fog, haze, mist, or smoke; Effect You
shroud yourself in smoke, making it harder for your foe to hit you. If you’re
concealed, the DC of the flat check increases from 5 to 7; if you’re hidden, it
increases from 11 to 13.
STORMSOUL
FEAT 1
LINEAGE
SYLPH
Your elemental ancestor’s influence manifests in you as tumultuous, thundering
storms, with dark clouds and bolts of lightning. You gain resistance to electricity
equal to half your level (minimum 1).
SWIFT
FEAT 1
SYLPH
You move with the wind always at your back. Your Speed increases by 5 feet.
Special The Speed increase from this feat isn’t cumulative with any Speed increase
from your ancestry feats (such as Nimble Elf).
WIND TEMPERED
FEAT 1
SYLPH
You are at home in tempestuous weather and accustomed to even the harshest
winds. You gain a +1 circumstance bonus to saves against air and electricity effects.
If you roll a success on a save against an air effect, you get a critical success instead.
5TH LEVEL
CLOUD GAZER
FEAT 5
SYLPH
Your connection to air allows you to see through obscuring mists. You can see
well enough through fog, mist, and clouds that would normally cause creatures
to be concealed that you don’t need to succeed at a flat check to target creatures
benefiting from such concealment.
