Ratfolk
52
Known as ratfolk in many places across Golarion, ysoki have survived thanks to
their cunning, adaptability, and focus on community and cooperation. Ysoki have
large families with dozens of members, often including non-ysoki. Many ysoki
are avid travelers, moving throughout the world as merchants and adventurers—
lifestyles complemented by their ability to spot a wide variety of threats, from
environmental dangers to other creatures who wish to do them harm. Due to
their cautious and wandering nature, ysoki usually stay wary of strangers but can
quickly develop strong bonds with those they trust.
RATFOLK OF GOLARION
Where there’s trade, there are ysoki. As adaptable as humans, ysoki have carved
out warrens and caravan routes across nearly every continent on Golarion.
BElkzEn crEEpEr
Outsiders often dismiss Belkzen Creepers as uncivilized and monstrous due to the
animal skull masks they wear to inspire fear in their orc neighbors. In truth, these
canny survivors simply value seclusion as much as community. Isolated from
most other ratfolk, Belkzen Creepers often dwell in large burrows beneath the
rocky islands poking out of the Hold of Belkzen’s Dirt Sea. They typically have
tawny fur and limbs well-muscled from poling their sled-skiffs over quicksand.
Belkzen Creepers tend to be devout, and their clerics skillfully drive away the
region’s unusual undead. The central figure in their mythology is the Hollow Rat,
a hairless chthonic rodent who carves tunnel mazes to keep Rovagug contained—
or hasten his escape, depending on the tale-teller. They also venerate Lor Shan (a
local aspect of Lao Shu Po), Gozreh, and the orc fertility goddess Dretha.
Belkzen Creepers usually have the deep rat or longsnout rat heritage.
diGuO-dashun undErminEr
Populating the Darklands under central Tian Xia,
Diguo-Dashun Underminers are the most numerous
ratfolk on the continent. They generally have black or gray
fur with long whiskers and red eyes that help them navigate
underground. Those with enough wealth use gold, jewelry, and
elegantly wrapped tail ribbons to flaunt their social status.
Life in these ysoki’s resource-scarce caverns has taught them
the value of alliances, and they display fierce loyalty to their
militaristic clans and antipathy to any rivals (of which there
are inevitably many). Most Diguo-Dashun Underminers
dislike surface dwellers and resent the ease of their lives—
but bond strongly with those they come to trust.
Underminers usually view religion as transactional, worshipping
more out of hope for divine boons than reverence. However, they’re
strongly influenced by Lao Shu Po, the Grandmother Rat who stole
divinity for herself. Like her, Diguo-Dashun Underminers go
after what they want, sneaking around, tunneling
under, or barreling through whatever stands
in their way.
These ratfolk often have the shadow rat
or tunnel rat (page 54) heritage.
drumish dashEr
When most Inner Sea natives think of ratfolk, they picture a Drumish
Dasher. Affable, inventive, and quick-witted, Drumish Dashers have
