77
9TH LEVEL
ANALYZE INFORMATION
FEAT 9
APHORITE
You can stoke your mind into a burst of analytical prowess. You can cast 3rd-level
hypercognition once per day as a divine innate spell.
ANCILLARY MOTES
FEAT 9
APHORITE
Prerequisites Crystalline Dust
You can use Crystalline Dust one more time per day.
Special You can take this feat more than once, gaining one more use of Crystalline
Dust per day each time.
CRYSTALLINE CLOUD
FEAT 9
APHORITE
Prerequisites Crystalline Dust
When you use Crystalline Dust, you can spend one additional action
to disperse the motes as a 10-foot-radius cloud centered on you
instead of as haze; the activity gains the concentrate trait. All
creatures within the cloud become concealed, and all creatures
outside the cloud become concealed to creatures within it.
PREEMPTIVE RECONFIGURATION [reaction]
FEAT 9
APHORITE
Frequency once per day
Trigger You would take bludgeoning, piercing, or slashing damage.
Your body anticipates the blow. The impact area briefly reorganizes into a
strengthened tissue lattice that blunts the attack. You gain resistance equal to your
level to the triggering damage type, which applies against the triggering damage.
If you have the Crystalline Dust feat, you can use Preemptive Reconfiguration
without expending a usage of the reaction for the purpose of the feat’s Frequency
limit. Instead, the usage counts toward your number of Crystalline Dust uses
per day, as if you had used that feat instead.
13TH LEVEL
IMPOSE ORDER [reaction]
FEAT 13
APHORITE
FORTUNE
Frequency once per day
Trigger You would critically fail a skill check or suffer an effect with the
misfortune trait.
You shift the underlying fabric of reality to impose a baseline of order.
If the trigger was a skill check, you instead receive a result of 10 +
your proficiency bonus (don’t apply any other bonuses, penalties,
or modifiers). If the trigger was an effect with the misfortune
trait, the misfortune and fortune effects cancel each other
out as normal, negating the triggering misfortune effect.
17TH LEVEL
CHANNEL THE GODMIND [two-actions]
FEAT 17
APHORITE
Frequency once per day
You tap into the Godmind’s collective cognitive well, rapidly
parsing near-infinite variables to read your surroundings. For 1 minute,
you gain precise motion sense out to 60 feet, you can see invisible
creatures and objects, and you gain the effects of a 9th-level true seeing.
Relations with Axis
The ancient bonds between aphorite
and axiomite are still encoded within the
minds of the aphorites’ creators. Few of
Axis’s hybrid children are called to fulfill
these contracts’ terms, but the Godmind,
the collective consciousness that rules
Axis, can still reach between worlds to
draw aphorites to the Eternal City. Some
individuals serve as interpreters for the
rigid axiomites and their more chaotic
allies. Others have their mental faculties
tapped, providing mortal imagination for
the Godmind’s calculations.
ANCESTRY
GUIDE
EXPANDED
ANCESTRIES
AND
HERITAGES
NEW
ANCESTRIES
AND
HERITAGES
ANCESTRAL
GEAR
GLOSSARY
AND INDEX
