Azarketi
12
The proud and secretive azarketis descend from the Azlanti survivors of Earthfall.
Physically mutated by their greatest enemies, alghollthus, to survive underwater,
azarketis unknowingly traded annihilation for centuries of enslavement. Though
they’ve escaped subjugation, azarketis are tied to the ocean but drawn to the
shore, torn between two worlds in a way they can’t wholly reconcile.
AZARKETIS OF THE INNER SEA
Azarketi territory spreads across the globe, but most live in the Arcadian
Ocean, Inner Sea, and the ruins of Azlant. These ambitious survivors refuse to
embrace complacency and tend toward logic and adaptability. Wary of being
enslaved or manipulated by their neighbors, they value freedom and privacy.
AlvADnA
Adapted to survive in the dark, crushing ocean depths, Alvadna azarketis live in
deep sea trenches, where their large, sedentary communities protect them and
enable their reclusive tendencies. They subsist primarily on gelatinous lifeforms,
such as sea cucumbers, jellyfish, and xenophyophores but also consume eels,
fish, and starfish. As they adapted to their home depths, Alvadnas developed
semi-translucent skin and overly large eyes. They bind marine snow into thin
sheets to craft spartan clothes and fishing nets, which they illuminate with
bioluminescent bulbs. These azarketis also frequent underwater volcanoes,
using their control over water to shape molten lava into tools and weapons.
Alvadnas typically have the ancient scale, benthic, or murkeyed
azarketi heritage.
erAvAr
Confined to much smaller waterways than other azarketis, Eravars live in
rivers, swamps, lakes, and other inland bodies of water. Brown-skinned and
sedentary, Eravars build their homes at the bases of waterfalls or in caverns
behind them, along the banks of fertile riverbeds or half-submerged in
warm marshes and swamps. They grow crops and rear livestock for
food. Eravar azarketis have a fondness for pets, raising birds, fish,
and aquatic mammals along with other domesticated animals. Social
and gregarious, Eravars happily trade tales and goods with outsiders.
Eravars most often have the river, inured, or mistbreath azarketi heritage.
inzenti
The most commonly found azarketis, Inzentis live in temperate waters
throughout the Arcadian Ocean and Inner Sea. Inzentis’ skin tones range
from human hues to shades of pearlescent white, blue, green, pink, or yellow.
They have expressive brow ridges and vibrant purple eyes, and they favor
elaborate circlets, anklets, and wristbands crafted from gold, coral, and pearl.
Their cities of coral and seaweed sprawl across the ocean floor, surrounded by
farms of crustaceans, fish, and oysters. Inzentis hold great reverence for their
Azlanti origins and avidly study their ancestors’ culture and history, making
regular pilgrimages to Azlanti ruins, sunken shipwrecks, and coastal museums
and universities.
Inzentis most often have the benthic, spined, or thalassic azarketi heritage.
ozAlon
Large decorative fins crest the heads of Ozalon azarketis, who appear as
bold and beautiful as coral. They inhabit the warm waters of the Fever Sea
and southern Arcadian Ocean. Ozalons live in reefs and seaweed forests but
