42
Fruit leShy
Your body continually produces small fruits imbued with primal magic.
At dawn each day, a new fruit ripens. You or an ally can remove this fruit
as an Interact action. If a living creature that can derive sustenance from
fruit consumes it as an Interact action within the next hour, they regain
1d8 Hit Points, plus an additional 1d8 Hit Points for every 2 of your levels
beyond 1st. This effect has the healing, necromancy, and positive traits.
lotuS leShy
You effortlessly float on the surface of water. You can walk on the surface
of still water and other non-damaging liquids, moving at half your normal
Speed. You can attempt to walk along the surface of flowing water as well,
still moving at half Speed, but doing so requires a successful Acrobatics
check to Balance using the DC of a Swim check to move through the
water; on a failure, you fall into the water. This Acrobatics check doesn’t
use an action.
root leShy
Your body is made from hardy roots that attach you firmly to the
ground. You gain 10 Hit Points from your ancestry instead of 8. You can
go without sunlight for 2 weeks before you begin to starve. You gain a +2
circumstance bonus to your Fortitude or Reflex DC against attempts to
Shove or Trip you. This bonus also applies to saving throws against spells
or effects that attempt to move you or knock you prone.
Seaweed leShy
Your body is made from woven seaweed, and you’re just as
comfortable underwater as on land. You gain a swim Speed of 20
feet, and you can always breathe underwater. However, your land Speed is
reduced by 5 feet (to 20 feet for most seaweed leshys).
LESHY ANCESTRY FEATS
The following ancestry feats are available to leshys.
1ST LEVEL
AGELESS SPIRIT
FEAT 1
LESHY
You remember more about your previous incarnations than
most leshys. During your daily preparations, you can meditate
upon fragmentary memories of your past lives to gain the trained
proficiency rank in one skill of your choice. This proficiency lasts
until you prepare again. Since this proficiency is temporary, you can’t use
it as a prerequisite for a skill increase or a permanent character option like
a feat.
5TH LEVEL
ANCHORING ROOTS
FEAT 5
LESHY
Small roots sprout from your feet, steadying you as you move. You gain the
Steady Balance skill feat, even if you aren’t trained in Acrobatics, and you can
use the Anchor action.
Anchor [one-action] Effect You send your roots deeper into the ground, making it harder
for you to stumble. Until you move, you gain a +2 circumstance bonus to
your Fortitude or Reflex DC against attempts to Shove or Trip you (or a +4
circumstance bonus if you’re a root leshy). This bonus also applies to saving
throws against spells or effects that attempt to move you or knock you prone.
Leshy Resurrection
Leshys who lose their physical
form incorporate the changes they
experienced in life into their spirit.
Even though a leshy’s spirit isn’t the
same as the soul of many ancestries,
resurrection magic can still restore it
to their most recent body. Should the
ritual fail, it’s usually because a leshy
has shed too many of their memories
and attachments, rather than due to
Pharasma’s judgment.
