121
Hit Points
8
Size
Medium
Speed
25
Ability Boosts
Charisma
Free
Languages
Common
Additional languages equal to your
Intelligence modifier (if positive).
Choose from Elven, Gnomish, Goblin,
Halfling, Dwarven, Sylvan, and
any other languages to which you
have access (such as the languages
prevalent in your region).
Traits
Humanoid
Kitsune
Low-light Vision
You can see in dim light as though it
were bright light, and you ignore the
concealed condition due to dim light.
Change Shape
As a kitsune, you gain the Change
Shape ability.
Change Shape [one-action] (concentrate, divine,
kitsune, polymorph, transmutation)
You transform into a specific alternate
form determined by your heritage.
If your heritage doesn’t list a form,
your alternate form is a tailless
form, which is a common Medium
humanoid ancestry prevalent where
you grew up (typically human). This
form is the same age and body type
as your true form and has roughly
analogous physical traits, such as
hair color. Using Change Shape
counts as creating a disguise for the
Impersonate use of Deception. You
lose any unarmed Strikes you gained
from a kitsune heritage or ancestry
feat in this form. You can remain in
your alternate form indefinitely, and
you can shift back to your true kitsune
form by using this action again.
tan, black, or white in color. Kitsune have bushy tails that grow in number as
they hone their innate magical abilities, to as many as nine.
societY
Kitsune are rarely the majority in whatever communities they inhabit, and
many go their whole lives without meeting another kitsune beyond their family.
Their society, as much as it exists, centers primarily around the commonalities
that kitsune find as they pass among other peoples. The same social perspective
that helps them imitate others also makes them quick to notice signs that
someone may need help or a kind word. Due to this, kitsune often form strong
interpersonal relationships and tend to anchor their social circles.
When two kitsune do meet, they may find themselves exchanging light verbal
repartee, enjoying the sport of trying to outwit each other. While it’s considered
a grave offense to outright give away another kitsune’s shapechanging nature,
kitsune relish surreptitiously forcing another to “break character,” shocking
the other into disrupting their transformation through a well-placed comment.
alignMent and religion
Kitsune often have neutrality in their alignment from balancing their dual
natures, though their instinct for stirring up trouble leads many to lean slightly
toward chaos. Some possess the ability to control or bend the will of others, but
even among those that do, only the evilest use these arts flippantly or selfishly.
The patron kitsune deity is Daikitsu, the goddess of crafting and agriculture.
Though not all kitsune necessarily worship Daikitsu, most respect her as the
purported source of their powers. Kitsune in Tian Xia often revere both Shizuru
and Tsukiyo, seeing the duality of the sun and moon in their own multifaceted
nature. A small sect of Avistani kitsune worship Sivanah, the goddess of illusion,
respecting her position between perception and reality and believing the goddess’s
true form to be that of a kitsune—hidden behind not seven veils, but nine.
naMes
While kitsune have some traditional names, they’re more likely to use names that
are unremarkable in their local society, the better to pass unnoticed. Some have
different names for each form: a kitsune name for their kitsune form, a regional
name for a tailless form, and possibly no name at all for a fox form.
saMPle naMes
Hamako, Haohiko, Kitsukou, Kon, Kwan-la, Talaro
KITSUNE ON GOLARION
Kitsune originated in Tian Xia, though they’ve tagged along as other peoples
have moved across Golarion. As a result, they can now be found across the
globe. Kitsune tend to establish few ancestral enclaves, instead blending in with
the various national and ethnic groups in the lands where they reside.
angen
Angen is a kitsune settlement in the Inner Sea region, located in the Verduran
Forest of Taldor. Angen kitsune don’t represent an ethnicity of kitsune, but a
group of kitsune from many regions who have formed a collective society. Angen
kitsune are among those most invested in bridging communications between
kitsune and other peoples, as well as in forging a common kitsune identity out of
the traditions of all kitsune.
Where other kitsune often view their forms as different facets of themselves,
Angen kitsune tend to view their kitsune form as their true self. Angen kitsune
feel that showing their “true forms” to the people of the Inner Sea ensures
kitsune visibility and dispels the negative stereotypes of trickster kitsune. As
a cosmopolitan people, Angen kitsune are equally likely to have any heritage.
They tend to have a more fluid sense of what it means to be a kitsune and
ANCESTRY
GUIDE
EXPANDED
ANCESTRIES
AND
HERITAGES
NEW
ANCESTRIES
AND
HERITAGES
ANCESTRAL
GEAR
GLOSSARY
AND INDEX
