6
EXPANDED ANCESTRIES
AND HERITAGES
This section offers expanded options for ancestries and
versatile heritages introduced in the Pathfinder Advanced
Player’s Guide and Pathfinder Lost Omens Character
Guide. The core rules for these ancestries are provided in
those books, with the new material here expanding and
enhancing the breadth and depth of options available
for characters taking these ancestries and heritages. This
chapter covers the following ancestries and heritages.
AAsimAr (Uncomon HeritAge)
Aasimars result from celestial influence, but only rarely
are they literally descended from celestials, more often
coming from special blessings or the residual energies
in holy places. This book presents new lineages for
aasimars descended from various types of celestials. For
information on playing an aasimar, see pages 34–36 of
the Advanced Player’s Guide.
AzArketi (Uncomon Ancestry)
Often known as “gillmen” or “Low Azlanti,” azarketis
are the descendants of the Azlanti Empire. They survived
Earthfall by being mutated by their foes, the alghollthus,
to become an aquatic people tied forever to seas and
waterways—but their history draws them back to the land.
This book presents new azarketi options, exploring their
magical connection to water. For information on playing
an azarketi, see the “Azarketi Ancestry Web Supplement”
on paizo.com or Absalom, City of Lost Omens.
cAtfolk (Uncomon Ancestry)
Native to the nation of Murraseth in southern Garund,
catfolk are feline humanoids who believe they were
created to hunt down threats to Golarion as a whole.
This book presents new options to double down on
catfolk’s agility and luck. For information on playing a
catfolk, see pages 8–11 of the Advanced Player’s Guide.
cHAngeling (Uncomon HeritAge)
The offspring of wicked hags, changelings are often left
in the cradles of their mortal parent’s people and raised
without understanding what makes them different. They
often feel disconnected from their communities early in
life, the subtle call of their hag mother coaxing them to
abandon those they love. This book presents new lineages
for changelings descended from different kinds of hags.
For information on playing a changeling, see pages 30–31
of the Advanced Player’s Guide.
DHAmpir (Uncomon HeritAge)
Dhampirs are mortals descended from a living and a
vampiric parent. Marked forever by their hungers, some
may learn to draw strength from the blood of others,
while others drink subtler substances, such as pain. This
book presents new lineages for dhampirs descended from
different kinds of vampires. For information on playing a
dhampir, see pages 32–33 of the Advanced Player’s Guide.
DUskwAlker (Uncomon HeritAge)
Reincarnated souls, duskwalkers gained leave to have
one more chance at life. All duskwalkers have strong
connections to their previous identities, but each must
decide for themselves whether to learn more about their
past or forge a new path. This book contains options for
duskwalkers based on how their previous life ended. For
information on playing a duskwalker, see pages 37–38 of
the Advanced Player’s Guide.
Hobgoblin (Uncomon Ancestry)
Many hobgoblins have been drawn toward the nation
of Oprak, which seeks to forge pacts and earn respect
through methods other than war and conquest. While
clearly related to their goblin cousins, hobgoblins are less
frenetic and more careful planners. This book contains
options for hobgoblins to assist their fellow warriors or
to tap into the legendary Cantorian Spring—the source
of the hobgoblin ancestry—to gain healing effects. For
information on playing a hobgoblin, see pages 48–51 of
the Character Guide.
kobolD (Uncomon Ancestry)
These expert trap makers often live in secluded places that
most other ancestries eschew. Kobolds operate in a world
of larger, stronger creatures who often dismiss them—
until these cunning survivors reveal what they can unleash
on their foes. This book contains options for kobolds to
improve their use of traps and kobold weapons, and even
to grow draconic wings. For information on playing a
kobold, see pages 12–15 of the Advanced Player’s Guide.
The Pathfinder Core Rulebook introduces six ancestries that are particularly common within the Inner Sea region, but
these represent only a small fraction of Golarion’s diverse peoples. With a history that stretches tens of thousands of
years across endlessly shifting nations and even to other worlds and planes of existence, the Lost Omens setting has a
vast, varied, and colorful selection of ancestries and heritages a player can choose when building a character. From those
who must shoulder the expectations of being infused with supernatural essences, to peoples who have been embraced
as champions of good, to outcasts who have experienced lifelong intolerance and suspicion, to members of vast empires
long hidden in the mists of time or the depths of the ocean, there’s a perfect ancestry for every character concept!
Overview
