62
RIFTMARKED
FEAT 1
LINEAGE
TIEFLING
Long ago, qlippoth marked someone in your lineage, most likely through their ancient
runestones that dot Golarion’s surface. Yours is an old lineage, primordial and twisted,
and you have a sense for similarly twisted things. You’re trained in Occultism. If you’re
already trained in Occultism (from your background or class, for example), you instead
become trained in a skill of your choice. You also gain the Oddity Identification skill feat.
SHACKLEBORN
FEAT 1
LINEAGE
TIEFLING
Your lineage shows the signs of velstrac tampering, including some curious quirk
bequeathed by those shadowy surgeons of flesh and souls. Your flesh heals cleanly
and quickly—all the better for you to serve as a subject for their ghastly art. You gain
the Fast Recovery feat, even if you don’t meet the prerequisites.
5TH LEVEL
DEVIL IN PLAIN SIGHT [two-actions]
FEAT 5
CONCENTRATE
DIVINE
POLYMORPH
TIEFLING
TRANSMUTATION
You’ve learned to draw your fiendish nature into a small ball of corruption and hide it in
your soul. Your obviously fiendish traits disappear, including
any tails, horns, and cloven hooves, though hints remain
(claws turn into jagged nails or eyes retain an odd hue,
for instance). You’re still recognizably yourself, but now
appear as a typical, non-tiefling member of your base
ancestry. Using Devil in Plain Sight counts as creating
a disguise when using Deception to Impersonate, and
your transformation automatically defeats Perception
DCs to determine if you’re a normal member of your base ancestry; only creatures
actively rolling Perception to examine you might notice the disguise. While
in your shapeshifted form, you can’t use unarmed attacks, innate spells,
or other abilities that require physical features you receive from a
tiefling ancestry feat—for instance, you can’t use the Skillful TailAPG
feat. You can remain in your alternate form indefinitely, and can shift
back to your tiefling form by using this action again.
DEVILISH WILES
FEAT 5
TIEFLING
Traditionally, fiends are exceptionally good at persuading people to do
things, even when their targets know it’s a bad idea. You’re also rather good
at it, compelling the weak and weak-willed to your bidding. You can cast
charm once per day as a 1st-level divine innate spell.
9TH LEVEL
QLIPPOTH MAGIC
FEAT 9
TIEFLING
Prerequisites Riftmarked
You’ve deeply studied the secrets of your blood and can force reality to act against
its own wishes. You can cast blur and silence once per day each as 2nd-level
divine innate spells.
RAKSHASA MAGIC
FEAT 9
TIEFLING
Prerequisites Beastbrood
You remember the secrets of your rakshasa forebears and know how to apply
those memories to get results. You can cast humanoid form and illusory
creature once per day each as 2nd-level divine innate spells.
Tiefling Settlements
Given the nature of fiends, tieflings
are among the most common of
planar scions, especially in areas
where demonic or diabolic corruption
is most powerful, such as in the
lands of the Sarkoris Scar or under
the rule of the Thrice-Damned House
of Thrune in Cheliax. In such places,
it’s not unheard of for a few dozen
tieflings to form their own small
community. These places tend to be
paranoid and precarious, sometimes
worryingly vulnerable to the cults of
dread gods or unholy fiends.
