Dhampir
24
Mortal, yet descended from immortals; living, but irrevocably shaped by
undeath: dhampirs exist in a liminal space between two opposing forces. Many
superstitious folk would say these half-dead, vampire-descended creatures
shouldn’t exist at all—but exist they do, despite their often-violent origins,
carving out lives for themselves among all ancestries and across all cultures.
In most ways, dhampirs resemble their mortal parents. They retain their
ancestry’s size, general shape and build, and distinguishing features such as
pointed ears, pronounced jawlines, thick facial hair, and the like. They hail
from all ethnicities and all parts of the world, but a dhampir’s skin and hair
are always an ashen, bloodless reflection of their mortal parent’s, lacking
the warm tones that indicate life and vitality. Born with a hunger distinct
from most mortal appetites, dhampirs trend toward slighter builds than
their mortal counterparts. Their eyes are often colorless, with only pinpoint
pupils, though some instead have gray, silver, or red eyes. Despite these
eerie characteristics, most dhampirs embody an entrancing combination
of physical grace and subtle charm.
Given their unusual origins, it’s no surprise that dhampir societies are
all but unheard of. Complex families occasionally form when a single vampire
gives rise to several dhampir siblings, but most dhampirs exist in isolation. In
the best of cases, a dhampir is raised as part of their mortal parent’s society
and faces all the prejudice that community bears toward a half-living child.
Those born to strife and violence are often orphaned, abandoned, or cast out.
Their eerie mannerisms and long lifespans only exacerbate the difficulties
they face when integrating into a community, causing most dhampirs to
keep their distance and remain detached from those around them.
Dhampirs are outsiders in most cultures, and many find kinship
among other people of mixed ancestry: half-elves and half-orcs, tieflings,
changelings, and similar types. Rarely, small communities of dhampirs
form in the shadows of particularly large cities or in wild hinterlands far
from settled regions.
To some extent, a dhampir’s existence is predicated upon death and
bloodshed; even in the best of circumstances, their vampire parent’s very
nature compels them to feed upon the living, and many dhampirs have more
sinister origins. This reality leaves dhampirs prone to feelings of guilt and
indebtedness, which almost always have some sort of influence on their
outlook, but otherwise a dhampir isn’t beholden to their vampiric parent’s
wicked nature.
Dhampirs left to fend for themselves among a hostile populace often care
little for questions of morality; these individuals have learned, out of necessity,
to look out only for their own interests, and if their powers over others allow
them to better survive, they might as well put them to use. Some strive to prove
themselves to be more than the curse of their undead lineage, even going so far
as to hunt down vampires and other undead. Others enthusiastically embrace
the dark side of their origin and live a life of evil. Those who uphold a faith
often patronize the deities worshipped by their mortal parents, though evil
dhampirs often find inspiration in Urgathoa, whispered to have been not
only the first undead but in fact the first vampire.
DHAMPIRS OF THE INNER SEA
On Golarion, dhampirs occur most often in those lands where
vampires are most common: shadowy Nidal, the undead land of Geb,
and the legendary gothic haunts of Ustalav. These regions are home to the
svetocher children of moroi vampires; the offspring of nosferatu vampires
