83
Hit Points
8
Size
Medium
Speed
25 feet
Ability Boosts
Dexterity
Free
Languages
Common
Shadowtongue
Additional languages equal to your
Intelligence modifier (if it’s positive).
Choose from Aklo, Draconic, D’ziriak,
Necril, Undercommon, and any other
languages to which you have access
(such as the languages prevalent in
your region).
Traits
Fetchling
Humanoid
Darkvision
You can see in darkness and dim
light just as well as you can see in
bright light.
No small number of fetchlings are nonreligious, recognizing all gods’
powers but revering none. Faithful fetchlings prefer gods that offer protection
and stability, be it the pastoral embrace of Erastil or the binding chains of
Zon-Kuthon. Those who travel alone or pass between planes seek the comfort
of Alseta, Desna, and Gozreh. Calistria appeals to ambitious fetchlings, while
Grandmother Spider and Sivanah help those who wish to move through the
world unnoticed or unfettered. Some worship these three as a pantheon called
the Laughing Veil; a few even include Norgorber as a fourth member.
names
Fetchlings adapted to a new world, and their names do the same. These names
commonly include phonetic qualities from multiple languages or are simply
local cultural names that fetchling families find compelling. Other dominant
naming conventions include flowing sounds, harsh or hissing consonants, and
surnames that refer to important relatives or community traits.
samPle names
Amelisce, Ashka, Drosil, Eitsanara, Eomva, Ikyamek, Inva, Jegan, Lirtae,
Meotrai, Sorsul, Zokaratz
FETCHLINGS OF THE INNER SEA
Fetchlings are an uncommon sight in the Inner Sea region, as the majority reside
in the Shadow Plane. A large portion of the region’s fetchling diaspora arrives
from Shadow Absalom—which they call Beacon—before using Absalom’s
ports to reach greater Golarion. Some formerly Nidalese fetchlings escape
the predations of the Umbral Court and lead freer lives. Other fetchlings
hail from remote enclaves on the Material Plane or arrive via supernatural
phenomena that thin the barriers between the Material and Shadow Planes.
Thanks to their reflective eyes and relative rarity, fetchlings around the
Inner Sea tend to stand out. Some attempt to hide their distinctive qualities,
imitating local fashions and wearing clothing that covers their telltale skin.
Others take pride in their differences, donning traditional garments or clothes
that accentuate their monochrome nature. A recent fashion trend emphasizes
lighter-colored garments that contrast with fetchlings’ unique shadows.
Fetchlings’ origins profoundly impact their interactions. Some, particularly
those from Beacon and Nidal, have spent much of their lives in fear or danger.
These individuals see the wider Inner Sea region’s relative freedom and
diversity as a way to spread their wings and establish a new identity. Others
hang on to their pragmatic reservations and sense of caution.
brightsorrow
Brightsorrow fetchling enclaves live on Somal’s Tears, a chain of islands
suspended between Shadow Golarion and its barely visible moon. The isles are
well-lit by Shadow Plane standards, with ambient light in a narrow pre- and
post-dawn range. This illumination brightens during irregular Lacrimosas,
days when a ring of pale sunlight shines from behind the obsidian moon. The
light makes small portions of the islands flare and disappear—along with any
people in the area—only to reappear at a later Lacrimosa.
Brightsorrows greatly value self-sufficiency and preparation. Many
garments incorporate pouches or rucksacks to hold necessities like preserved
foods. Songs, stories, and rhymes that convey life lessons and tradecraft are
cherished for similar reasons. Weaving is a particularly prestigious craft, as
intricately woven bridges span the void between isles.
Brightsorrow skin tones occupy the middle of the gray scale spectrum.
Their eyes fluctuate over months between pale yellow and the orange of a
setting sun, and their hair usually grows in springy, black-and-gray coils.
Portions of Brightsorrows’ shadows frequently drift away and dissolve,
though surrounding shadows quickly fill the newly empty sections.
ANCESTRY
GUIDE
EXPANDED
ANCESTRIES
AND
HERITAGES
NEW
ANCESTRIES
AND
HERITAGES
ANCESTRAL
GEAR
GLOSSARY
AND INDEX
