110
Suli Settlements
Like their jann ancestors, sulis tend
to wander or live nomadic lives more
often than settle down in a single city.
Golarion’s largest populations of jann
wander the Windswept Wastes of
Casmaron, and many families of suli-
jann can also be found there. In the
city-state of Merab in Thuvia,
sulis’ skill with mixing and
understanding elements is held in high
esteem by the local alchemists and
magicians, and some suli elementalists
move there, at least for a time.
suli heritage (uncoMMon)
You are descended from a janni or otherwise embody a dichotomy of opposing
elemental planar forces. You gain the suli trait, in addition to the traits from
your ancestry. You also gain low-light vision, or you gain darkvision if your
ancestry already has low-light vision. You can choose from suli feats and feats
from your ancestry whenever you gain an ancestry feat.
SULI ANCESTRY FEATS
At 1st level, you gain one ancestry feat, and you gain an additional ancestry
feat every 4 levels thereafter (at 5th, 9th, 13th, and 17th levels). As a suli,
you can choose from among the following ancestry feats in addition to those
available to your ancestry.
1ST LEVEL
DUALBORN
FEAT 1
LINEAGE
SULI
Your suli heritage can be traced back to two geniekin ancestors of opposing
elements, or to an elemental ancestor that embodied two combined elements.
Choose two of the following elements: air, earth, fire, and water. Once made, this
choice can’t be changed. You gain resistance equal to half your level (minimum 1) to
all damaging effects with the traits of either of your chosen elements.
Special If you take the Elemental Assault or Elemental Bulwark ancestry feats,
you can use them only with your chosen elements. You can add your resistance from
this feat to the resistance you gain from Elemental Bulwark against effects with your
elements’ traits, for a total of 5 + half your level, or 10 + half your level with Improved
Elemental Bulwark. If you take the Tetraelemental Assault feat, you can choose each
of your two elements twice each, instead of choosing each of the four elements
once each.
ELEMENTAL ASSAULT [one-action]
FEAT 1
ARCANE
CONCENTRATE
EVOCATION
SULI
Frequency once per day
You shroud your arms and held weapons in elemental magic. Choose one element.
Until the end of your next turn, your Strikes deal an additional 1d6 damage of the
indicated type and have the trait corresponding to the element: electricity for air,
bludgeoning for earth, fire for fire, or cold for water.
ELEMENTAL EMBELLISH
FEAT 1
SULI
You can summon a harmless but impressive elemental display. You become trained
in Intimidation. If you would automatically become trained in Intimidation (from your
background or class, for example), you instead become trained in a skill of your choice.
When you Demoralize a foe, if you choose to Demoralize via an elemental display,
Demoralize loses the auditory trait and gains the visual trait, and you don’t take a penalty
when you attempt to Demoralize a creature that doesn’t understand your language.
SCHOLAR’S INHERITANCE
FEAT 1
SULI
Your parents devoted themselves to alchemical experiments involving elemental energy.
You gain the trained proficiency rank in Crafting. If you would automatically become
trained in Crafting (from your background or class, for example), you instead become
trained in a skill of your choice. You also gain the Alchemical Crafting skill feat.
SULI-JANN
FEAT 1
LINEAGE
SULI
Your elemental ancestor was a janni, genies that walk the mortal world and embody
all four elements together. You inherited a janni’s nature as a wanderer and ability to
