109
109
Suli Adventurers
Sulis often come from artisan,
bounty hunter, emissary, or nomad
backgrounds before becoming
adventurers. Sulis’ elemental
manifestations in adolescence cause
many of them to seek answers
about their heritage; these sulis
typically train as acolytes or scholars.
Classes that focus on creation or the
combination of elements, such as
alchemists and wizards, appeal to the
multi-elemental nature of many sulis,
while others pursue classes like bard
that combine martial and magical
disciplines. Suli monks often focus
their attention inward, harnessing the
elemental potential within themselves
and exploring their inherent
connection to the elements through
their martial art.
live among them. Instead, jann encourage sulis to enter mortal societies,
hopefully working to influence the Empire of Kelesh from the inside and end
the enslavement of genies. Many sulis become drawn into this conflict; some
do so to impress their immortal ancestors, but most simply abhor slavery.
alignMent and religion
Most sulis are intense but adaptable people, valuing inner strength and truth
over conformity or peace, often respecting others for living their personal
truths more than for sharing common values. Sulis usually have a neutral
component to their alignment; true neutral is the most common alignment
among them, with lawful neutral, chaotic neutral, neutral good, and neutral
evil suiting most other sulis.
Sulis are typically only religious if raised in a religious society, but those
that heavily invest in their faiths or become clerics tend to follow gods of
duality like Nethys and Gozreh, gods of creation and alchemy like Qi Zhong
and Brigh, or gods of travel like Desna and Alseta. Shelyn is also popular
among sulis who identify themselves with the process of artistic creation,
seeing themselves as a beautiful whole made of disparate parts.
sulis in the inner sea
The largest populations of sulis live on the continent of Casmaron, where
clans of suli-jann families live as nomads in the Windswept Wastes. Those
that leave the desert for Kelesh or Qadira often become agents of revolution
and change, fighting for freedom and the rights of genies and geniekin. Sulis
in the Thuvian city of Merab are valued for their connection to the four
elements of creation, and suli alchemists and elementalists are sought out
for their expertise and abilities. In Varisia, dualborn sulis are found among
the Shoanti quahs, typically those with connections to air.
Suli dwarves frequently collect gemstones representing the various
elementals in their heritage, and those who cast elemental magic use
these gems as a focus.
Dualborn suli elves with a connection
to fire and either air or water are born
among the Vourinoi in the Osirion desert’s
oases. Vourinoi sulis often have eyes or skin
that glow like flame, and bright blue or white hair.
Suli gnomes’ hair, skin, and eye color match with
far less regularity than typical gnomes
and feature more natural tones like the
blue green of the sea, the earthen brown
of soil, or the multifaceted red, orange, blue, and
white colors of fire.
Suli goblins revel in the freedom and chaos of
their unpredictable and many-faceted heritage. They
may have radically different senses of style from day
to day, corresponding with the element they feel most
connected to at that moment.
Many Othoban suli halflings emerged into the
modern age alongside New Thassilon with strange,
archaic features. These dualborn halflings’ ancestors
were often strongly associated with a particular
runelord and are usually born with a connection
to a combination of elements that best fits that
runelord’s area of magical focus.
Suli humans are most common among the
nations of the Golden Road. Signs of suli
heritage are less obvious among humans, as they
bear particularly subtle suli traits.
ANCESTRY
GUIDE
EXPANDED
ANCESTRIES
AND
HERITAGES
NEW
ANCESTRIES
AND
HERITAGES
ANCESTRAL
GEAR
GLOSSARY
AND INDEX
