130
rather than Tiny, and it’s appropriate for use as your mount, unlike most familiars.
It has the scent ability, which counts against your limit for familiar and master
abilities as normal. Furthermore, it can never gain a familiar ability that grants it any
Speeds other than a land Speed. If you’re a pixie, you can’t ride a corgi due to your
Size, but you can take this feat to gain a corgi familiar.
EVANESCENT WINGS
FEAT 1
SPRITE
You’ve manifested wings that can flutter for brief spurts. You don’t need to spend any
additional actions to reach something in your space that a Medium creature could
reach. For instance, if you wanted to open a cookie jar located four feet off the ground,
you only need to spend a single Interact action to do so. When you use Evanescent
Wings to flutter to a higher place in your space, your action gains the move trait.
FEY CANTRIPS
FEAT 1
SPRITE
You’ve learned the cantrips sprites have used since time immemorial. You gain dancing
lights and ghost sound as primal innate cantrips. If you have the grig heritage, you also
gain detect magic, and if you have the draxie heritage, you gain prestidigitation.
SPEAK WITH BATS
FEAT 1
SPRITE
Prerequisites nyktera heritage
You can ask questions of, receive answers from, and use the Diplomacy skill with bats.
You gain a +2 circumstance bonus on all Diplomacy checks to Make an Impression on
bats or Request something from bats.
SPRITE’S SPARK
FEAT 1
SPRITE
You can fling a portion of your magic at foes. You gain a ranged unarmed attack in
the sling weapon group with a maximum range of 20 feet that deals 1d4 damage. (No
ability modifier is added to the damage roll.) The damage type and name of the unarmed
attack depends on your heritage, described below; most sprite heritages not
presented in this book also use luminous spark. Like other unarmed attacks,
you can improve this attack with handwraps of mighty blows.
Draxie euphoric spark (mental)
Firefly Sprite luminous spark (fire)
Grig dissonant note (sonic)
Melixie sting shot (poison)
Nyktera ultrasonic pulse (sonic)
Pixie pixie dust (mental)
5TH LEVEL
ANIMAL SPEAKER
FEAT 5
SPRITE
Prerequisites ability to communicate with some type of animals (such as
bats or arthropods)
You can speak to all animals, not just a particular subset. You gain a +1 circumstance
bonus to Make an Impression on animals (which usually uses the Diplomacy skill).
CATCHY TUNE [one-action]
FEAT 5
AUDITORY
CONCENTRATE
EMOTION
MENTAL
SPRITE
You create a tune so catchy, your foes can’t help but dance along.
Attempt a Performance check against the Will DCs of all enemies in a
30-foot emanation.
Critical Success The target takes a –10-foot status penalty to its Speed
and is flat-footed, both for 1 round.
Sprite Adventurers
While PCs sprites are marked from
adulthood as destined for great things,
their childhoods before that point vary
as widely as any other ancestry. That
said, the tendency of most sprites to
live either apart from civilization or in
small villages means they rarely have
backgrounds related to cities or large
organizations and more likely were
acrobats, animal whisperers, artists,
entertainers, gamblers, herbalists,
hermits, nomads, or scouts. Sprites
are most often bards, rogues, or
sorcerers, though sprite rangers and
druids do exist and tap into their love
of the natural world. Likewise, sprite
witches APG and wizards are even
more enthusiastic about learning the
secrets of magic, and sprite oracles APG
approach the contradictions of their
mystery from the experience of living
the contradictions between the fey and
mortal worlds.
