51
MASK OF REJECTION [reaction]
FEAT 5
FORTUNE
ORC
Prerequisites Orc Warmask
Frequency once per day
Trigger You fail a saving throw against an effect from your warmask’s magical
tradition.
Requirements You’re wearing your warmask.
Your warmask projects a white-hot fury that attempts to vaporize the offending
magic. You reroll the triggering check with a +2 circumstance bonus, but you must
use the new result, even if it’s worse than your first roll.
SCAR-THICK SKIN
FEAT 5
ORC
Glorious, storied scars cover and protect much of your body. Your DC on flat checks
to end persistent bleed damage is reduced from 15 to 10, or from 10 to 5 after
receiving especially appropriate assistance.
9TH LEVEL
DRAGON GRIP
FEAT 9
UNCOMMON
ORC
Prerequisites Beast Trainer (Advanced Player’s Guide 18)
Your hold has a unique draconic connection. You gain a +2 circumstance bonus
when you attempt to Make an Impression on a creature with the dragon trait.
You gain access to the Riding Drake animal companion (Advanced Player’s
Guide 145).
MASK OF PAIN [reaction]
FEAT 9
ORC
Prerequisites expert in Intimidation, Orc Warmask
Trigger You succeed at a Demoralize check.
Requirements You’re wearing your warmask.
Your mask has grown into a manifestation of your pain, which you can
release. The creature you successfully Demoralized takes 2d6 mental
damage, or 4d6 mental damage if you’re legendary in Intimidation.
The target is then temporarily immune to additional damage from
Mask of Pain for 24 hours.
13TH LEVEL
LIFEBLOOD’S CALL
FEAT 13
ORC
The impulse to survive and continue fighting resonates deep within you. You gain a
circumstance bonus to damage rolls on your melee Strikes equal to twice the sum of
your wounded and doomed conditions  (to a maximum of a +8 circumstance bonus
to damage) whenever you have one or both conditions.
MASK OF FEAR [free-action]
FEAT 13
ORC
Prerequisites Orc Warmask
Trigger You start your turn with the frightened condition.
Requirements You’re wearing your warmask.
Your warmask burns off of your face, releasing your apprehension. You remove the
frightened condition. Your warmask is destroyed, and you can’t reapply it until your
next daily preparations.
Special You can use this reaction even if you have a condition tied to the
frightened condition that would normally prevent you from using a reaction, such
as “fleeing as long as you’re frightened” or “paralyzed as long as you’re frightened.”
Orc Holds
Orc holds are large groups of orcs bound
together by family, values, and loyalty.
Burning Sun: Armed with their faith
in Sarenrae, the Burning Sun hold is
dedicated to directing orc culture toward
a more righteous path.
Empty Hand: The Empty Hand hold
collects taxes from trade in Urgir to
acquire top-quality weapons and armor.
The hold’s renown reached new heights
after they led a recent victory over the
Whispering Tyrant’s undead forces.
ANCESTRY
GUIDE
EXPANDED
ANCESTRIES
AND
HERITAGES
NEW
ANCESTRIES
AND
HERITAGES
ANCESTRAL
GEAR
GLOSSARY
AND INDEX
