Orc
48
Driven to Golarion’s surface by the dwarves’ exodus, orcs have a history shaped
by conflict. In Avistan, orc civilization is largely confined to the Hold of Belkzen,
a scraggy, mountainous badland and the last echo of their once-mighty empire.
United for the first time in generations, Avistani orcs are now poised to
make allies instead of enemies—assuming they can survive the wrath of
the mighty lich Tar-Baphon.
For many orcs, life is a tumultuous affair, where victory and survival—
and achieving them honestly—mean everything. Most orcs despise lies and
deception, seeing them as cowardice; this is especially true for diplomacy’s
crucial, if petty, half-truths and omissions. However, this view often causes
others to dismiss orcs as uncooperative and short-sighted.
Orcs value immediacy greatly, as they know much of life’s uncertainty and
brevity. They regularly fight to resolve conflicts, but so long as a combatant
demonstrates strength, even defeat can win respect. These displays of violence
have deep cultural roots, and just as orcs have pride in the scars they earn,
they don’t see their raging contests as brutal, the way outsiders do. To express
themselves, orcs often favor beautiful tattoos and intricate scarring that both
decorate the body and demonstrate their ability to endure pain.
Surface orcs are naturally nocturnal, holding many cultural activities and
ceremonies at night, as their eyes are better suited to the dark. This can
lead to further misunderstandings between orcs and other humanoids,
as orcs encountered during the daytime have likely been forced to
modify their sleeping pattern for the comfort of others, leaving
them short on sleep and, potentially, more easily aggravated.
Enshrak
Enshrak orcs returned to their homeland after being driven
skyward. They feel a deep connection to their people’s past and
search the Darklands for relics left by ancient orcs. They practice
traditional rituals and cultivate Darklands root vegetables (rather
than the surface’s sun-poisoned produce). Enshraks believe
orcs were never meant to leave the Darklands and hold fierce
superstitions concerning the blinding sun and their surface kin.
Enshraks maintain their hatred of dwarves, seeing the Quest for
Sky as a genocide. Many holds dig deep into the Darklands, trying
to reclaim their ancestral home, and some even seek to eventually
free Rovagug, in a movement known as the Quest for the Cage.
Enshraks usually have the battle-ready or deep orc heritage.
kharmaja
Living among Golarion’s lofty peaks has instilled a reckless
bravado in the orcs who call them home. Kharmaja orcs learn to
jump and climb before they can walk. Great honor is thrust upon
mountain orcs capable of death-defying leaps over deadly chasms—tales
of these deeds are sung across Kharmaja holds for generations in their
expansive oral tradition. Most Kharmajas live among the Kodar and
Mindspin Mountains, though some have expanded as far south as the
Menador Mountains.
Wrangling a drake into servitude is one of the greatest feats of bravery
recognized by the mountain holds. Kharmaja children memorize the
names of their favorite drake riders and their fearsome mounts.
Kharmajas usually have the battle-ready or hold-scarred orc
heritage.
