85
Fetchling Settlements
Many fetchlings congregate in these
two cities.
Beacon (Shadow Absalom): Estlaris
ignore their city’s official name on
Golarion and instead call their home
Beacon. Velstracs and intelligent
undead prowl the city’s sparsely
traveled streets, but business thrives
behind closed doors and in towering
d’ziriak hives. Ships cross the parched
Bay of Dusk to bring diverse wares
that fuel warring factions, while the
Glare at Beacon’s heart can send
visitors back to the exact spot from
which they entered the Shadow Plane.
Candlease: This island of terrace
farms, natural spires, and colorful
woven bridges floats in the sky
beneath Shadow Golarion’s moon. In
the Tallow amphitheater, the timely
gleaming of obsidian standing stones
helps predict the Lacrimosas that
both take and replace Somal’s Tears.
Candlease also hosts storytelling
contests and Brightsorrow moots.
resistance are shared at “the local kayalhi,” gathering places named for a
fetchling-majority town in Nidal’s hinterlands.
Sharedars tend toward either the exact middle or the extremes of the
monochrome spectrum, and they typically have yellow, gray, or black eyes.
Their shadows appear smaller than the bodies that cast them and seem to
loom, gaunt and tall, when viewed indirectly.
FETCHLING HERITAGES
Fetchlings’ extraplanar past shaped them in many ways. Choose one of the
following fetchling heritages at 1st level.
bright Fetchling
Your body proves that shadow can’t exist without light. Perhaps your eyes
glow brighter or your veins occasionally pulse with light. You emit dim light
within 5 feet of you. You can activate or suppress this ability as an action,
which has the concentrate trait. Additionally, you can force fragments of your
shadow to glow and cast dancing lights and light as occult innate cantrips.
Cantrips are heightened to a spell level equal to half your level rounded up.
DeeP Fetchling
Your predecessors dwelled in the Shadow Plane’s deepest, most treacherous
regions. You might cast a denser shadow, have a slower pulse, or find comfort
in the embrace of darkness. You gain cold or negative resistance equal to half
your level (minimum 1), chosen when you gain this heritage.
liminal Fetchling
You come from a line of fetchlings with a closer connection to the Ethereal
and Shadow Planes, and you share those realms’ affinity with the in-between
and unseen. You gain a +1 circumstance bonus to locate undetected creatures
within 60 feet when using the Seek action. Your flat check to target concealed
creatures is DC 3 instead of DC 5, and your flat check to target undetected
creatures is DC 9 instead of DC 11.
resolute Fetchling
Your ancestors have long dealt with the horrific—in the Shadow Plane or
elsewhere—and you bear their mental fortitude. When you roll a success on
a saving throw against an emotion effect, you get a critical success instead.
wisP Fetchling
Your ancestors’ exposure to the Shadow Plane wrought great physical changes.
Your hair or skin sometimes appears insubstantial, and you’re slighter and
more agile than other fetchlings. You’re Small instead of Medium. You gain
the trained proficiency rank in Acrobatics, the Quick Squeeze skill feat, and
a +1 circumstance bonus to Acrobatics checks to Tumble Through. If you
would automatically become trained in Acrobatics (from your background
or class, for example), you instead become trained in a skill of your choice.
FETCHLING ANCESTRY FEATS
At 1st level, you gain one ancestry feat, and you gain an additional ancestry
feat every 4 levels thereafter (at 5th, 9th, 13th, and 17th levels). As a fetchling,
you select from among the following ancestry feats.
1ST LEVEL
FETCHLING LORE
FEAT 1
FETCHLING
You’ve learned obscure lessons about your fellow fetchlings. You’re trained in
Occultism and Stealth. If you would automatically become trained in one of those
ANCESTRY
GUIDE
EXPANDED
ANCESTRIES
AND
HERITAGES
NEW
ANCESTRIES
AND
HERITAGES
ANCESTRAL
GEAR
GLOSSARY
AND INDEX
