134
Their skin tones and plumage most often range from black to gray, while
some have brown to umber skin tones that complement the color of their
feathers. Large, pointed ears and sharp brows give them very angular, defined
features. Their eyes have no pupil and are fixed in their head, with
nictitating membranes that blink sideways.
Strix attire is simple. To allow flight, these avian relatives
must keep clothing light and minimal and their feet bare
to allow for adequate perching. Strix naturally shed their
feathers, and much of this material makes its way back
into their attire as ornaments; wearing the feathers of
loved ones is particularly popular. A tribe’s rokoa may
wear a full cloak or headdress of her community’s
feathers, and the downy fluff shed by strix’s young
provides valuable insulation for winter clothing.
At their core, most strix communities simply
wish to be left alone to seek prosperity peacefully.
Unfortunately, any acts of self-defense by
strix are seen as further justification for
violence by their enemies,  who are already
accustomed to treating strix as a scourge on
the mountains and forests. The concept of
vengeance is fluid but pervasive among strix
groups. Strix generally believe that a certain
amount of vengeance is just, but this conflicts
with their general understanding of the value
of life and kinship. Their itaraak champions,
warriors of vengeance sworn to defend their
people at all costs, protect their tribe fearlessly to
avoid bloodying the wings of more sensitive souls.
Rumors from fearmongering humans claim that
itaraak champions habitually slaughter a hundred
humans for every one of their kin that falls.
cheliaxian strix
Cheliax, location of the famous Devil’s Perch, is the primary
home of strix in the Inner Sea region. Its dry, arid mountains
and tall spires high above the plunging valleys create the
perfect craggy locale for strix to put significant barriers between
themselves and others. In addition to the mountains, the nearby
forests and coastal cliffs also provide an isolated refuge, as well as an
enjoyably short flight back to Ciricskree, a metropolis by strix standards that
counts over 500 residents.
MinDsPin strix
The Mindspin Mountains provide an ideal environment for strix settlements.
Giants and trolls—which typically make the mountains a staunch barrier
between Varisia and the Hold of Belkzen—tread the ground far below strix
homes. If anything, the formidable neighbors are a temperamental amenity
in that they deter humans from encroaching on strix territory. However,
the presence of fey and drakes that roam the skies has forced smaller tribes
into a tenuous alliance with these forces. Strix in the mountains and the
surrounding areas of Isger, Nirmathas, and Molthune sing stories of a tribe
that encountered Lamashtu’s divine herald in the Mindspin Mountains
and became enslaved by the goddess.
niDalese strix
Nidal’s strix population primarily inhabit the western coast of the
nation, although these tribes are small and few. This coastal life is
Strix Adventurers
Adventuring strix most commonly
take the emissary, hermit, nomad,
scout, or street urchin backgrounds.
Strix are agile combatants and
prudent adventurers who excel
as druids, fighters, monks,
rangers, or rogues.
