81
as 2nd-level primal innate spells once per day each. These spells use your class DC
or spell DC, whichever is higher.
PACK TACTICS
FEAT 9
BEASTKIN
You have mastered how to hunt with your pack. If an enemy is within reach of you
and at least two of your allies, that enemy is flat-footed against you.
13TH LEVEL
DIRE FORM
FEAT 13
BEASTKIN
Your hybrid shape is a hulking beast. While in your hybrid shape, you gain the
effects of enlarge.
GIFT OF THE MOON
FEAT 13
BEASTKIN
You can share your power with others, but they can’t escape the werecreature’s
curse as easily as you can. You can cast a 5th-level moon frenzy as a primal innate
spell once per day. At 15th level, you cast a 6th-level moon frenzy instead. At 17th
level, your 6th-level moon frenzy grants its standard effects, except the temporary
Hit Points increase to 15 and the silver weakness increases to 15. At 20th level,
you cast a 10th-level moon frenzy instead.
The spell uses your class DC or spell DC,
whichever is higher.
17TH LEVEL
ANIMAL SHAPE
FEAT 17
BEASTKIN
You have full control over your shape and can transform into your inherent animal.
You can use Change Shape to enter an animal shape. When you gain this feat,
choose either aerial form, animal form, or dinosaur form; after you choose a form,
you can’t change the form. While in animal shape, you gain the effects of a
5th-level casting of your chosen form spell, except you always transform into
an animal matching your inherent animal and can use your humanoid form’s AC
if it’s higher than what the animal form grants. If your inherent animal isn’t among the
animals listed in the form, you default to the statistics and abilities of the bird battle
form, cat battle form, or deinonychus battle form for aerial form, animal form, and
dinosaur form, respectively (at the GM’s discretion, you instead default to
a different form that is closest to your inherent animal). You can
remain in animal shape indefinitely and can use Change Shape to
return to your humanoid or hybrid shape at any time.
If you have the Critter Shape feat, you can choose to gain the
effects of a 4th-level pest form, can remain in critter shape indefinitely,
and can return to your critter shape at any time after leaving the shape,
just as you can with Animal Shape.
ANIMAL SWIFTNESS
FEAT 17
BEASTKIN
You move like an animal. Your Speed increases by 5 feet. In addition,
you gain one of the following Speeds available to your inherent animal:
climb, fly, or swim. You gain this Speed only while in your hybrid shape.
The new movement is as fast as your standard Speed; for example, if you
have a 30-foot Speed, you can gain a 30-foot climb Speed. If your inherent
animal doesn’t typically have a specific type of Speed, you can’t gain it
with this feat. If your inherent animal doesn’t typically have a climb,
fly, or swim Speed, your Speed increases by 10 feet instead.
Werecreatures as PCs
Groups that wish to include playable
werecreatures, with all the ensuing
drama and drawbacks, can use beastkin
as a starting point but also include the
weakness to silver and moon frenzy
ability common to werecreatures. GMs
and players should work together
when doing this, however, as the
moon frenzy will cause a player to
lose control of their character for
some time; setting boundaries and
expectations is important. Additionally, a
werecreature’s curse has the potential to
steal the spotlight from other PCs or the
campaign’s story and should be included
only after serious consideration.
ANCESTRY
GUIDE
EXPANDED
ANCESTRIES
AND
HERITAGES
NEW
ANCESTRIES
AND
HERITAGES
ANCESTRAL
GEAR
GLOSSARY
AND INDEX
