97
Ganzi Features
The features that distinguish ganzis
from their mundane kin are extremely
varied, as befits their chaotic nature.
Proteankin ganzis are the most iconic,
with feathery hair, iridescent scales,
and long serpentine tails. Ganzi tails
are notoriously full of mischief, with
even their attached ganzi sometimes
baffled by their antics.
an unlocked door. Your tail can’t perform actions that require fingers or significant
manual dexterity, including any action that would require a check to accomplish,
and you can’t use it to hold items.
9TH LEVEL
ANARCHIC ARCANA
FEAT 9
GANZI
The magic in your blood is unpredictable. When you make your daily preparations,
roll 1d12 twice and consult the following list. 1: acid arrow; 2: blur; 3: hideous
laughter; 4: humanoid form; 5: illusory object; 6: mirror image; 7: resist energy; 8: see
invisibility; 9: shatter; 10: sound burst; 11: spider climb; 12: telekinetic maneuver. You
can cast each of those two spells once during the following day (or one spell twice
if you rolled doubles) as 2nd-level divine innate spells.
GLORY AND VALOR! [one-action]
FEAT 9
AUDITORY
GANZI
HEALING
NECROMANCY
PRIMAL
Frequency once per day
You are descended from the einherji, the worthy warriors of chaos. You call upon
your ascendant blood with a mighty cry that fills you with a revitalizing energy for
1 minute or until you critically fail a Strike, whichever comes first. For the duration,
the first time each round you successfully Strike a creature of your level or higher,
you regain Hit Points equal to half your level.
LARCENOUS TAIL
FEAT 9
GANZI
Prerequisites Skillful Tail
Your tail’s chaotic and independent nature causes it to perform mischief even when
you don’t intend it, and it can somehow steal things it shouldn’t be able to handle.
You can use your tail to Steal an object, though your tail still can’t hold onto it at
the end of your action. If you have a hand free, you can transfer the stolen object
to your hand. Otherwise, your tail surreptitiously drops it on the ground in your
space, where you can grab it later. Observers other than your target who haven’t
witnessed you stealing something with your tail are usually distracted, meaning the
GM will usually decrease their Perception DCs, as normal for Stealing something.
13TH LEVEL
ALTER RESISTANCE [reaction]
FEAT 13
GANZI
Frequency once per hour
Trigger You take acid, electricity, or sonic damage.
You focus on your protean forebears to change your energy resistance. The energy
resistance you gain from your ganzi heritage changes to match the triggering
damage. This change occurs after the damage is dealt.
ARISE, YE WORTHY!
FEAT 13
GANZI
You are descended from the valkyries who protect worthy souls, and can hold back
death’s grasp. You can cast breath of life as a divine innate spell once per day.
MISCHIEVOUS TAIL
FEAT 13
GANZI
Prerequisites Skillful Tail
Your tail can bedevil your foes. You can Disarm and Trip creatures
with your tail, even if you don’t have a free hand. All restrictions of
Skillful Tail otherwise continue to apply. If you have Smashing Tail,
your tail unarmed attack gains the disarm and trip traits.
ANCESTRY
GUIDE
EXPANDED
ANCESTRIES
AND
HERITAGES
NEW
ANCESTRIES
AND
HERITAGES
ANCESTRAL
GEAR
GLOSSARY
AND INDEX
