95
95
Ganzi Adventurers
Ganzis come from all walks of life.
Some find joy entertaining others
and learn the skills of acrobats,
entertainers, or gladiators. Others
focus on creative pursuits as artists
or tinkers, or as charlatans. The rogue
and bard classes suit ganzis’ love of
chaos and mischief, while those looking
for the thrill of combat often become
swashbucklers APG or even liberator
champions. Ganzis might study illusion
magic as wizards or witches APG.
or lovers; and some discard their gift-name entirely. Heart-names aren’t static,
and a ganzi might change their heart-name a day or a decade later.
alignment anD religion
Unsurprisingly, ganzis lean heavily towards chaos, favoring organizations
like the Firebrands. This is hardly universal, however—even a few suits of
Hellknight armor accommodate a feathered serpent tail. Likewise, many ganzis
find themselves suited to the service of Desna, Cayden Cailean, and other
powers that value freedom and individuality.
GANZIS OF THE INNER SEA
In regions familiar with couatls, proteankin ganzis often get
associated with the feathered serpents, whether through ignorance
or out of reverence. Many proteankin in such areas lean into
this theory. Such ganzis often seek to master wisdom and serenity,
finding meaning in emulation of the couatl.
Among dwarves, ganzis occur most often among the deep-dwelling
Grondaksen and other isolated communities. Identifiable by their
polychromatic hair or beards, ganzi dwarves are often seen as threats to
tradition and encouraged to become adventurers or emissaries. Some dwarf
communities, however, celebrate their ganzis as a divine reminder not to
become overly set in their ways.
Ganzi elves arise most often in Kyonin, as well as among the Mordant Spire
elves and the Kallijae of the Mwangi Expanse. While Kyonin’s non-ganzi
elves almost never treat their ganzi kin as lesser, many see the large number of
ganzis as a worrying sign of Tanglebriar influence. By contrast, the Spiresworn
consider ganzis to be sacred emissaries of the Voice of the Spire, while Kallijae
simply accept ganzis as kin. Ganzi elves are especially quick to act,
with many experiencing significant wanderlust as well; in addition,
ganzi elves often physically adapt to new regions more quickly than
other elves.
Ganzi gnomes, most common in Nex and Cheliax, can be
difficult to distinguish from other gnomes. Identifiable ganzis are
celebrated as beacons of creativity and excitement, though this puts
great pressure on young ganzi gnomes to live up to expectations;
it’s common for such ganzis to take up adventuring to escape
the pressure.
Ganzi goblins, most common in the Sarkoris Scar and Varisia,
deviate from traditional ganzi characteristics thanks to their
often asymmetrical physiology, with limbs or features on one
side appearing different from the other. They are celebrated among
Lamashtu-worshipping goblins for their appearance.
Ganzi halflings often have feathers instead of hair, especially on
their feet. Most common in Ravounel and Andoran, such ganzis are
called featherfoots by other halflings, with many taking the sobriquet
as their surname. Commonly seen as both champions of freedom and
disruptors of the peace, ganzi halflings are often encouraged to become
adventurers or to join the Silver Ravens or Eagle Knights.
Ganzi humans of the Inner Sea are most common in Jalmeray, Nex,
and most prominently Sarkoris and its surrounding lands. Beyond the
Inner Sea, the nations of Holomog in southern Garund, Nalmeras in
Arcadia, and Tianjing in Tian Xia all have sizable ganzi populations.
Ganzi humans most often manifest their heritage with tails, feathers,
and scales; the few that develop horns are often mistaken for tieflings
in Avistan. Ganzis in Vudra or Arcadia, however, are more commonly
presumed to be aasimars (kin of garudas or couatl, respectively), and
honored as such. Kellids of the Broken Lands consider proteankin ganzis
to possess a “dinosaur spirit” and, with it, immense heroic potential.
ANCESTRY
GUIDE
EXPANDED
ANCESTRIES
AND
HERITAGES
NEW
ANCESTRIES
AND
HERITAGES
ANCESTRAL
GEAR
GLOSSARY
AND INDEX
