Sulis are geniekin who embody a mixture of elements, most commonly air, earth, fire, and
water. They are typically the descendants of jann, genies of all four elements that wander
the Material Plane instead of making a home on the Elemental Planes.
Suli
108
108
At birth, a suli resembles their mortal ancestry, not
manifesting their otherworldly heritage until adolescence,
when they awaken into their elemental power. Strong
in body and will, sulis are dynamic and ever-changing,
and most feel they embody either all the elements
together at once or the traits of different elements at
different times. Some see themselves as
having multiple aspects or faces to
their personalities—one for each
element—that they cycle through
over the course of days or weeks.
You Might...
• Relate your personal identity with the mixture of
elements within you, believing you have sides that
befit each element.
• Work
to
harmonize
or
broker
peace
and
understanding in the world around you.
• Be prone to bragging, both about your own
accomplishments and those of your family or allies.
others ProbablY...
• Rely on you for your elemental abilities and expertise.
• Think you must be descended from a janni, if they
recognize that you are a geniekin at all.
• Assume your position at the nexus of opposing
elements means you are a neutral diplomat.
PhYsical descriPtion
Of all geniekin, sulis most closely resemble their mortal
ancestries, and many could be easily mistaken for a
non-suli As children, they appear wholly mortal; a suli’s
otherworldly characteristics only begin to develop when
they awaken into their power in adulthood, which
some refer to as a second puberty. Most adult sulis
have eyes that glow with a supernatural light or shift
color depending on the element they are attuned to at
that moment. Adult sulis are also prone to asymmetry
or physical traits manifesting only on one side of their
bodies, such as developing heterochromia, beauty
marks, freckles on one side of the face but not the
other, or vitiligo on half of the body. Their skin often
takes on a metallic (especially bronzy) sheen after
their awakening, as well.
Most sulis choose utilitarian clothes, expressing
themselves through jewelry that highlights their
glowing eyes or metallic skin, or with tattoos that
symbolize their journey through life.
societY
Most sulis can conform to the societies they’re
born into. They tend to be highly social and gravitate
toward jobs or societal roles where they will be seen by or
interact with the public, whether working in restaurants
or performing on a stage. Sulis often prize fame and
recognition, wanting themselves or the people close to
them to be known and remembered, and many take up
artistic hobbies like songwriting, poetry, or painting to
memorialize people and places they hold dear.
Some suli-jann try to seek out their immortal
ancestors, but the nomadic jann rarely invite sulis to
