96
Ganzi Settlements
Since ganzi births tend to be
unexpected and ganzis themselves
prone to wanderlust, very few ganzi
settlements appear on Golarion. Until
recently, the best-known locus of
ganzi activity was the city of Anuli
in southern Garund; ganzi creativity
has contributed a great deal of art
(and the occasional crater) to the
celestial-blessed city.
Even before the fall of Sarkoris,
that region’s thin planar boundaries
resulted in more ganzi births
than normal. In the wake of the
Worldwound’s closure, many ganzis
have journeyed there. Some seek
to wipe out the area’s demons and
restore the land to its people, while
others wish to explore the blasted
realm or even settle in the region.
Today, the Sarkoris Scar hosts more
ganzis than anywhere else in Avistan.
ganzi (uncommon heritage)
Your blood is touched by primal chaos. You gain the ganzi trait in addition
to the traits from your ancestry. You gain resistance to a single damage type
equal to half your level; at the beginning of each day, determine randomly
whether this resistance applies to acid, electricity, or sonic damage. You also
gain a +1 circumstance bonus to saving throws against effects that would
cause you to gain the controlled condition. You can choose from ganzi feats
and feats from your ancestry whenever you gain an ancestry feat.
GANZI FEATS
At 1st level, you gain one ancestry feat, and you gain an additional ancestry
feat every 4 levels thereafter (at 5th, 9th, 13th, and 17th levels). You can
choose from ganzi feats and feats from your ancestry whenever you gain an
ancestry feat.
1ST LEVEL
CREATIVE PRODIGY
FEAT 1
GANZI
You have a powerful creative drive, useful for prevarication and performance. You
gain the trained proficiency rank in Deception and Performance. If you are already
trained in either of these skills, you become trained in a skill of your choice in its
place. You also become trained in Art Lore.
GANZI GAZE
FEAT 1
GANZI
You have unusual sensory abilities passed down from your chaotic forebears. You
gain low-light vision. If you already have low-light vision, you gain darkvision instead.
Special You can select this feat a second time to gain darkvision in addition to
low-light vision.
IRREPRESSIBLE
FEAT 1
GANZI
Your contrary nature means you bounce back with prejudice. When you roll a success
on a save against an emotion or fear effect, you get a critical success instead.
SMASHING TAIL
FEAT 1
GANZI
You have a tail that serves as a potent weapon. You gain a tail unarmed
attack that deals 1d6 bludgeoning damage, has the sweep trait, and is
in the brawling weapon group.
VESTIGIAL WINGS
FEAT 1
GANZI
You possess small, weak wings that aid in balance. You gain the Steady
Balance and Cat Fall skill feats as bonus feats, even if you aren’t trained in Acrobatics.
5TH LEVEL
AMORPHOUS ASPECT
FEAT 5
GANZI
Your body is supremely flexible. You gain a +1 circumstance bonus on checks to Escape
or Squeeze, and when you critically fail when Squeezing, you get a failure instead.
SKILLFUL TAIL
FEAT 5
GANZI
You have a tail or similar body part that is always willing to lend a hand (so to
speak). You can perform simple Interact actions with your tail, such as opening
