Leshy
40
Leshys are immortal spirits of nature called into physical bodies through
primal rituals. While early leshys originated as guardians of natural habitats
who rarely strayed far from their birth places, a few went on perilous journeys
to attack threats at their source. These wandering spirits became easier to
draw into future creation rituals. With each passing generation, leshys with a
penchant for adventure have become increasingly common.
Leshy bodies can be made of numerous possible building blocks—like
petals, leaves, bark, and mushrooms. The ritual to create leshys can include
almost any plant or fungus, though most are primarily built from a single
species, which gives individuals their most distinctive features. Leshy scholars
group these characteristics into broad categories based upon their abilities.
Most common are leaf leshys. They can arise from any leafy plant but most
often form from trees or shrubs. These graceful leshys tend to be boastful,
enjoying mock combats and other dramatic performances. Gourd leshys have
hollow spaces within their heads, which they use to store their most valuable
possessions; this secure and private space makes them more likely to hold
cherished keepsakes. While fungus leshys can be quite sociable with other
ancestries, they tend toward introversion, needing quiet time spent in dark
and cozy caverns to recover after loud events. Vine leshys, by contrast, rarely
enjoy being alone. Much as vines scale trees and climb cliffs to reach for
sunlight, many vine leshys thrive in the presence of friends,
and they don’t shy away from asking for help when they
need it. Fruit leshys are similarly gregarious and tend to
be nurturing and generous toward their companions—
sometimes too much for their own good. True to their spiny
exteriors, cactus leshys are known for being abrasive, sarcastic,
and slow to trust. However, those with the patience to earn a
cactus leshy’s friendship find themselves with an unswervingly loyal and
unflinchingly honest ally. Similarly, root leshys are hard to win over, not
because of their personalities, but because they tend to live at a slower pace,
taking longer to warm up to others and make important decisions. Seaweed
and lotus leshys often have the most patience among leshys. Carefree and
playful, many seaweed leshys happily ride along with the ebb and flow of
the tides. Meanwhile, lotus leshys are thoughtful and fond of dispensing
wisdom in the form of cryptic advice.
A newly created leshy is at once both young and ancient. They view
the world with a childlike wonder and curiosity, relishing the chance to
experience the world with fresh eyes once again. Though their spirits may
be ancient beyond the reckoning of most ancestries, leshys consciously
recall little of previous lifetimes. Leshys typically find the significance most
ancestries attach to numerical age a curiosity—they understand that many
creatures have childhoods during which they gradually mature and gain vital
knowledge of themselves and the world around them, but they also struggle
to comprehend what makes an elderly noblewoman who has lived a life
of luxury and indulgence much different from her grandchildren. Still,
the past has a powerful impact on a leshy’s spirit, shaping their
personality, interests, and priorities.
As spirits who can experience many lifetimes
and forms, leshy ethnicities aren’t determined
by their physical bodies, origins, or familial
bonds, but by their spirit’s affinity for
particular cultural traits. Guardians
of the Green take their traditional
