79
prominent, their skin toughens like hide, their hair lengthens, and their eyes
reshape. Beastkin that can transform into actual animals keep some traits that
tie them to their humanoid form, such as retaining their eye color.
society
Beastkin typically weave themselves into their ancestral societies, hiding their
true nature as much as necessary. Some societies, particularly nomadic or
frontier societies, are more accepting of beastkin, allowing them to live in
their preferred form without judgment. Beastkin tend to live in independent
communities with other beastkin and werecreatures with the same inherent
animal, finding that their association with the same animal instills a sense of
fellowship. These communities usually reside in or near environments that
match the habitats of their inherent animals. Other beastkin instead live
on the fringes of society or away from it altogether, preferring to live on
their own.
Most people don’t understand that beastkin don’t have to contend with the
curse of moon frenzy and loss of self, nor do they have any way of telling
beastkin apart from werecreatures by appearance alone. Because of this, many
people treat beastkin just as they would a werecreature who wasn’t free of the
curse and might eat them on a full moon. People who know of beastkin and
can identify them as such are usually much less apprehensive about associating
with them. Beastkin are sometimes given the misnomer of “skinwalkers” by
those who are only mildly aware of their existence. This name is derived from
ignorant rumors about the evil origins of beastkin, but beastkin reject this
name both to distance themselves from the evil associations and to clarify the
diversity among the countless beastkin types throughout Golarion.
Alignment And religion
Most lean toward neutral alignments, but beastkin can be
as varied in alignment as there are animals in the world. Due
to their association with nature and the animal world, many
beastkin worship nature deities like Gozreh. Some adhere to the
Green Faith, while others worship deities of hunting, transformation,
or travel like Erastil, Alseta, and Desna.
BeAstkin (rAre heritAge)
The blood of a beast flows through your veins, granting
you the ferocity and might of animals. Only creatures
with the humanoid trait can take the beastkin versatile
heritage. Choose a type of animal such as bat, eagle, shark,
spider, tyrannosaurus, wasp, or wolf. This is the type
of animal tied to your heritage and is known as your
inherent animal. You gain the beast and beastkin
traits, in addition to the traits from your ancestry.
You gain the Change Shape ability (see below). You
can choose from beastkin feats and feats from your ancestry whenever you
gain an ancestry feat.
CHANGE SHAPE [one-action]
CONCENTRATE
POLYMORPH
PRIMAL
TRANSMUTATION
You change into your humanoid or hybrid shape. Each shape has a specific,
persistent appearance, and most beastkin remain in their hybrid shapes by
default. In hybrid shape, you appear as a mix between your ancestry and
your inherent animal. While in hybrid shape, you gain a jaws unarmed Strike
resembling the features of your inherent animal (fangs for bats, beaks for
eagles, mandibles for wasps, and so on). Your jaws deal 1d4 piercing damage,
have the agile, finesse, and unarmed traits, and are in the brawling weapon
group. In your humanoid shape, you retain the appearance of your original ancestry.
Beastkin Adventurers
Common beastkin backgrounds
include animal whisperer, farmhand,
herbalist, hunter, nomad, scholar,
and scout. Because most societies
tend to fear beastkin, they often
become outcasts and are also known
to have the banditAPG, charlatan,
criminal, hermit, prisoner, refugeeAPG,
scavengerAPG, and street urchin
backgrounds.
Beastkin often become barbarians,
druids, fighters, rangers, rogues,
sorcerers, and witchesAPG.
ANCESTRY
GUIDE
EXPANDED
ANCESTRIES
AND
HERITAGES
NEW
ANCESTRIES
AND
HERITAGES
ANCESTRAL
GEAR
GLOSSARY
AND INDEX
