71
Android Settlements
Androids are primarily found in
Numeria, where they hide among
humans or travel as nomads. A large
number live openly in Starfall under the
protection of the Black Sovereign. The
slopes of Silver Mount house multiple
android enclaves and archaeological
teams, including Enseffa, the center
of Androffan society. In the town
of Hajoth Hakados, the locals help
androids secretly flee Numeria for lands
where they face less hatred. Hidden in
a series of tunnels and caverns beneath
the Numerian Plains, the androids of
Szamrak’s Haven believe androids are
a superior life-form. They hunt for
foundries with the intent of liberating
all androids, conquering Numeria to
found an android-only nation, and
eventually returning their people to
their home amongst the stars.
ANDROID HERITAGES
An android’s heritage reflects the purpose for which they were originally
created. Choose one of the following android heritages at 1st level.
ArtisAn Android
Your body was originally designed to create works of art, complex tools, or
maintain advanced machinery. You become trained in Crafting (or another
skill if you’re already trained in Crafting), and you gain the Specialty Crafting
skill feat in a specialty of your choice.
impersonAtor Android
Your body was augmented with processes and an appearance intended to blend
in with humans more easily. You become trained in Deception (or another skill
if you’re already trained in Deception). You don’t require a disguise kit when
attempting Deception checks to Impersonate a human. In addition, you gain a
+4 circumstance bonus to Impersonate checks to pretend that you’re a human
version of yourself, rather than an android. This bonus doesn’t apply to other
checks to Impersonate humans.
lABorer Android
Your body is adapted to endure physical hardships or perform hard labor for
long periods of time. You become trained in Athletics (or another skill if you’re
already trained in Athletics), and you gain the Hefty Hauler skill feat.
polyglot Android
You were preprogrammed with a multitude of linguistic proficiencies, likely
to act as a translator. You learn two new languages, chosen from
common languages and any uncommon languages you have
access to. These languages take the same form (signed
or spoken) as your other languages. If you select the
Multilingual feat, you learn three new languages
instead of two.
wArrior Android
Your body was originally created to function as a
security officer or soldier. You’re a naturally gifted
warrior preprogrammed for combat. You’re trained in
all simple and martial weapons.
ANCESTRY FEATS
At 1st level, you gain one ancestry feat, and you gain an
additional ancestry feat every 4 levels thereafter (at 5th, 9th,
13th, and 17th levels). As an android, you select from among the
following ancestry feats.
1ST LEVEL
ANDROID LORE
FEAT 1
ANDROID
You have a keen interest in the origins of your people. You gain the trained proficiency
rank in Crafting and Thievery. If you would automatically become trained in one
of those skills (from your background or class, for example), you instead become
trained in a skill of your choice. You also become trained in Android Lore.
CLEANSING SUBROUTINE
FEAT 1
ANDROID
Your nanites help purge your body of harmful chemicals and toxins. Each time you
succeed at a Fortitude save against an ongoing poison, you reduce its stage by 2, or
ANCESTRY
GUIDE
EXPANDED
ANCESTRIES
AND
HERITAGES
NEW
ANCESTRIES
AND
HERITAGES
ANCESTRAL
GEAR
GLOSSARY
AND INDEX
