117
117
Undine Adventurers
Undines often come from the animal
whisperer, artist, and sailor backgrounds
before becoming adventurers. The
artist background is especially common
among undines descended from marids,
and undines raised on the Plane of
Water in their parent’s courts often
develop their skills as bards. Undine
clerics usually serve water deities,
while most undine sorcerers possess the
elemental or genie bloodlines.
coral growths at their joints or temples, tails with caudal fins, and even
webbed hands and feet.
societY
Unlike other geniekin, undines create and congregate within their own
tightly knit communities near water or floating on top of it. Undine
neighborhoods that develop within larger cities, typically near the docks
or directly on the water, are informally known as flotillas. Because undines
deliberately create and seek out these communities, their children usually
have healthy childhoods focused on the values of fellowship and harmony.
This stands in contrast to many other planar scions, who all-too-often grow
up feeling like outsiders.
Undines typically gravitate toward occupations that allow them to live
and work near water, and many of them excel at fishing and sailing thanks
to their love and understanding of the sea.
alignMent and religion
Undines are flexible and community-minded, often valuing the overall
health of their communities above that of any one individual. Usually of
a neutral alignment, their moral concerns are often centered around their
societies rather than their actions.
Religion isn’t a major part of most undine’s lives, but they often have
strong spiritual connections to their supernatural ancestors or to water
itself. Some undines worship deities of water, such as Gozreh or Hei Feng,
while others might offer their prayers to Lysianassa, the lost elemental lord
of water.
undines in the inner sea
Undines can be born anywhere in the Inner Sea region, to anyone of any
ancestry or culture that chooses to have dealings with a genie or elemental
creature. Still, like all geniekin, their numbers are concentrated around
geographical anomalies like the eternal winter of Irrisen and the Eye of
Abendego, the never-ending hurricane in the Arcadian Ocean. Undines of
all ancestries are thus most numerous in the Shackles, the Sodden Lands,
and the Crown of the World. In the unending winter landscape of Irrisen,
nearly all are born as rimesoul undines.
The Taralu dwarves of the Mwangi Expanse build their homes in the
fog-shrouded jungle lowlands and sometimes give birth to mistsoul undines.
In Rahadoum, undines are born among the Vahrid surface dwarves native to
the marshlands of the Eternal Oasis, with sandy skin and blue or green hair
that flows like a gentle stream.
Rimesoul and mistsoul undine elves manifest most often among the
Ilverani people, better known as the snowcasters, at the Crown of the World.
Ilverani already have frost-white skin and hair, and this is also common for
the undines born among them.
Undine gnomes consider the land and the sea to be two different worlds
of possibility, doubling their potential for new experiences. Their bright hair
and eyes tend toward the blues and greens of the ocean.
Undines among Irrisen’s frost goblins rarely have the light blue fur of their
relatives, instead growing thin coats of frost or quill-like icicles on their skin.
Undines among other goblins occasionally have tiny suckers on their lower
body, reminiscent of those on grindylow tentacles.
Known to travel across the land like a flowing river, undine halflings tend
to make their homes in riverside communities. They often have patches of
fish scales across their bodies and hair in either a deep green or muddy color.
Undine humans reflect the biodiversity of the oceans, with watery or
aquatic features that differ greatly between each, though family lines tend
to share common traits.
ANCESTRY
GUIDE
EXPANDED
ANCESTRIES
AND
HERITAGES
NEW
ANCESTRIES
AND
HERITAGES
ANCESTRAL
GEAR
GLOSSARY
AND INDEX
