Ancestral Gear
138
Ancestries around the world develop unique
equipment
to
accommodate
their
own specific physiologies, lifestyles,
and needs. The following section
features weapons and magical runes
representing a small fraction of
the accomplishments made by the
peoples of Golarion.
ANCESTRAL WEAPONS
The following are a sampling of weapons
that many ancestries use to complement their
cultures’ unique fighting styles.
WeaPon DescriPtions
Each of the weapons listed in Tables 1–1 and 1–2 are
detailed below. Gripplis and conrasus appear in Pathfinder
Lost Omens Mwangi Expanse.
Adze: A common cutting
tool, an adze resembles an
axe—but the cutting edge is
horizontal, rather than vertical.
The adze’s shape makes it
popular among wood workers,
and grippli builders often use them to
construct their treetop homes. The tool
also serves as an effective weapon, due in
part to the immense strength required to
swing it.
Buugeng: A blade of conrasu design,
a buugeng has a unique, curved shape
that allows it to rotate smoothly in the
hand of a trained warrior. This spinning motion makes
it easier to attack multiple foes at once with the weapon.
Fangwire: This kobold wire is thin and hard to see,
making it perfect for an ambush. The wielder wraps the
wire around a vulnerable spot,
such as the neck, and twists
it to inflict potentially fatal
lacerations. The name derives
from the use of a similar wire
in traps, or slow fangs, with
the word “slow” removed, as
a fangwire gets quick results.
Hand Adze: This is a smaller
version of an adze, useful for more
delicate woodworking or projects
in cramped spaces. Gripplis use the
hand adze for crafting and as
close quarters weapons.
Rungu: This specialized club
is designed for throwing and is
useful for both combat and hunting.
Though gripplis didn’t create the rungu originally, many
grippli communities have adopted it as the weapon of
choice for hunting creatures that hide high in treetops.
Taw Launcher: Designed by conrasu warriors, this
complex device resembles a crossbow and fires small
wooden bullets known as taws. A system of blades
within the launcher can rapidly reshape a taw as it’s
loaded, allowing the launcher to fire taws of
different shapes, such as fléchettes.
Thunder Sling: Tengu use these
specialized slings to fire darts further
and with greater force than when
thrown by hand, which is particularly
effective when attacking from great
heights. A thunder sling uses darts as
ammunition. It can also hurl blowgun
darts as ammunition but deals 1d4
piercing damage instead of 1d6 when used this way.
Tricky Pick: This ingenious kobold pick conceals
several hidden traps, which the wielder can activate
to trick and befuddle foes with a variety of damaging
blades and bludgeoning surfaces.
Whip Claw: The whip claw is a long tether
affixed to clawlike daggers, allowing the
wielder to fling and retract them with
deadly precision. Catfolk developed
this weapon to provide extended
reach when hunting dangerous
animals and wield them with
unmatched expertise.
Wish
Blade:
Specialized
grooves lined with unique,
alchemically treated metals
capable of retaining energy
score the length of this sword. The first wish blades
originated from genie smiths, and the knowledge of these
weapons has been passed on to generations of geniekin,
earning them the name wish blades.
Wish Knife: Much like a wish blade, the length of
this knife is scored with intricate grooves capable of
retaining energy. Wish knives are lighter than their
counterparts, making them the weapon of choice
for agile combatants.
WeaPon traits
The weapons in this section
include the following new traits.
Conrasu: Conrasus craft and
use these weapons.
Geniekin: Geniekin craft and
use these weapons.
Grippli: Gripplis craft and use
these weapons.
Buugeng
Thunder Sling
Whip Claw
