Known as itarii in their own language, strix are reclusive avian humanoids devoted to
their homelands and their tribes. They defend their precious communities with broad
wingspans and razor talons.
Strix (Rare)
132
Strix value ferocity, vengeance, and devotion above
all else. Their dark, formidable wingspans and long
history of taking revenge for their fallen family members
have painted them as winged devils in the eyes of
neighboring human populations. In contradiction to
their misunderstood nature, strix boast a spiritual,
artistic, and compassionate culture that is rarely seen
outside of their roosts.
As strix populations begin to resurge and spread
beyond the mountainous region known as the Devil’s
Perch, their tribes now speckle the landscape of Cheliax
and surrounding nations. Soaring over mountains,
forests, and beaches, strix are always brought home by
the deep connections they share with their kinfolk.
If you want a character who is loyal yet enigmatic,
fierce yet artistic, and who yearns to soar above the
world, you should play a strix.
You Might...
• Dedicate and endear yourself to your family,
friends, or community.
• Harbor an inherited distrust of humans.
• Keep strangers at arm’s length and perhaps
exhibit naivete about the world beyond
your homeland.
others ProbablY...
• Appreciate your dedicated friendship, even if they
don’t grasp the cultural history behind it.
• Treat you on occasion like a carrier pigeon, asking
you to deliver letters or other similar favors.
• Find your appearance frightening due to complete
inexperience with strix.
PhYsical DescriPtion
Strix are avian-influenced humanoids with intimidating
talons and feathered wings sprouting from their backs.
With an average height of 6 feet, strix are taller than
most humans but are very light for their size. Strix
are considered mature at 14 years of age and have an
average lifespan of 40 years. They have pointed ears and
large eyes that are typically black from sclera to pupil,
but occasionally appear as a piercing golden color. Strix
lack the ability to move their eyes independently of their
head, resulting in distinctive jerky movements as their
gaze snaps between targets. Their bodies are usually
taut with defined musculature—a result of the strength
necessary to flex their wings.
