118
Undine Settlements
Undines are the geniekin most likely
to form their own settlements and
communities, whether on Golarion
or the Plane of Water. Many undines
live in Outsea, a semi-aquatic River
Kingdom with a powerful, primal
connection to elemental water. In Tian
Xia, the Wanshou state was struck
by a series of storms that flooded the
land; now, many of Wanshou’s children
are born as undines.
undine heritage (uncoMMon)
A water elemental ancestor influences your bloodline. You gain the undine
trait, in addition to the traits from your ancestry. You gain a swim Speed of 10
feet and the amphibious trait. Like all creatures with the amphibious trait, you
can breathe both water and air. You can choose from undine feats and feats
from your ancestry whenever you gain an ancestry feat.
UNDINE ANCESTRY FEATS
At 1st level, you gain one ancestry feat, and you gain an additional ancestry
feat every 4 levels thereafter (at 5th, 9th, 13th, and 17th levels). As an undine,
you can choose from among the following ancestry feats in addition to those
available to your ancestry.
1ST LEVEL
AQUATIC EYES
FEAT 1
UNDINE
As your connection to water grows, you can see more easily in places with less light,
such as the depths of the ocean. You gain low-light vision, or you gain darkvision if
your ancestry already has low-light vision.
Special If your ancestry has neither low-light vision nor darkvision, you can
take this ancestry feat a second time to gain darkvision. You can’t retrain out of
this feat.
BRINESOUL
FEAT 1
LINEAGE
UNDINE
Your elemental ancestor’s legacy asserts itself as brackish water, like the seawater
of the ocean. You gain the Salt Wound reaction.
Salt Wound [reaction] (undine) Frequency once per day; Trigger A creature that has blood
and is not at its maximum Hit Points hits you with a melee Strike; Effect You
channel salt and brine from your blood into the creature’s wounds. The creature
must attempt a Fortitude save using your class DC or spell DC, whichever is
higher. On a failure, the creature takes 1d6 persistent acid damage and is sickened
1 by the pain. On a critical failure, it instead takes 2d6 persistent acid damage
and is sickened 2.
MISTSOUL
FEAT 1
LINEAGE
UNDINE
You have a connection to vaporous forms of water, such as fog and mist. You gain
the Mist Blending reaction.
Mist Blending [reaction] (undine) Trigger A creature attempts a flat check to target
you because you’re concealed or hidden due to fog, haze, mist, or smoke;
Effect You shroud yourself in mist, making it harder for your foe to hit
you. If you’re concealed, the DC of the flat check increases from 5 to
7; if you’re hidden, it increases from 11 to 13.
RIMESOUL
FEAT 1
LINEAGE
UNDINE
The water inside you is cold and frozen, like sheets of ice and frigid glaciers. You gain
resistance to cold equal to half your level (minimum 1), and you treat environmental
cold effects as if they were one step less severe (incredible cold becomes extreme,
extreme cold becomes severe, and so on).
TIDE-HARDENED
FEAT 1
UNDINE
You’re at home in the unpredictable tides. You gain a +1 circumstance bonus to
saves against cold and water effects. If you roll a success on a save against a
cold or water effect, you get a critical success instead.
