Kitsune are a charismatic and witty people with a connection to the spiritual that grants
them many magical abilities, chiefly the power to shapechange into other forms. Whether
they pass unseen among other peoples or hold their tails high, kitsune are clever observers
of the societies around them.
Kitsune (Uncommon)
120
Kitsune are shapechangers with two forms: one of a
fox-headed humanoid and one largely depending on where
they were raised. Those raised in populated areas typically
have what’s called a tailless form—a humanoid body
without any fox features that resembles a more common
ancestry, such as an elf or a human. In wooded or rural
areas, their second form is more likely to be that of a fox.
Though all-kitsune settlements exist, most live
among people of other ancestries, granting
them a degree of external insight into social
rules or dynamics that others process only
subconsciously. Kitsune enjoy subverting
expectations as much as they do going along
with them. Their fondness for jokes, stories,
and wordplay, especially when the twist of
a riddle hinges on the listener’s assumptions,
reinforces their reputation as tricksters.
With dual forms and a connection to both
the material and spiritual worlds, kitsune have
diverse concepts of self and identity. Some
even view their forms as separate individuals
altogether, using them to explore different
aspects of their personality.
If you want to play a character with
innate magical talents and countless hidden
facets, each revealed with a glint of the eye
and a twisting grin, you should play a kitsune.
You Might...
• Studiously observe the habits of those
around you, taking mental notes on how to
imitate them better.
• Delight in jokes, clever wordplay, pranks,
or unnecessarily complex plots.
• Present a different, but authentic, side of
yourself in each new situation.
others ProbablY...
• Are taken in by your magnetic personality and
enigmatic nature.
• Marvel at your many supernatural abilities.
• Wonder what you aren’t telling them.
PhYsical descriPtion
Kitsune have alert vulpine ears, pointed snouts, and
short, semi-retractable claws on their fingers and toes.
Their fur is dense, countershaded, and most often red,
