Hobgoblin
32
Hobgoblins are a tough, efficient, and disciplined people. These tall, muscular
humanoids resemble goblins who have been stretched to the height of a human.
Most live in regimented social structures, usually modeled after military
hierarchies. Their commitment to order and generally harsh, unsentimental
outlook on life often make it difficult for hobgoblins to earn allies outside of
their own kind.
HOBGOBLINS OF GOLARION
Hobgoblins live throughout the Inner Sea region, usually in insular, ordered
settlements. A large population of hobgoblins reside in the Avistani nation
of Isger and among the forests of the Eye of Dread and Shining Kingdoms,
though even these groups tend to live in small settlements or mercenary bands
thanks to a decline in hobgoblin population since the Goblinblood Wars. Some
of the largest, most notable hobgoblin settlements and organizations found
throughout Golarion are detailed below.
Bandu Fleet
The Vidrian Revolution, an ultimately successful attempt to overthrow
colonialist rule in the former state of Sargava, provided an opportunity for
the hobgoblins of the Bandu Hills in the central Mwangi Expanse. War had
ignited the nation, and the hobgoblins were eager to participate, allying with
several Free Captains and joining the pirates’ ranks in an attempt to quell the
revolution. As the tides of war turned against the Sargavan elite and the Free
Captains, the Bandu hobgoblins recognized two truths: they were on the losing
side, and any attempt to return home would surely end in their death. Seizing
opportunity amidst the chaos, they stole a fleet of Free Captain ships and set
out to start a new life at sea. The Bandu hobgoblins, now sailing under the
flag and moniker of the Bandu Fleet, have come to enjoy traveling the waves,
applying their militaristic tenets to the nautical lifestyle.
Members of the Bandu Fleet act as mercenaries, selling their services to anyone
willing to provide the supplies and funds needed to keep their crews fed and
ships repaired. Maintaining sizable crews can be difficult, so the Bandu Fleet also
takes on a smattering of sailors from other ancestries. Forced to accept whatever
sailors and jobs they could find, Bandu hobgoblins have become rather affable
(at least by hobgoblin standards), earning them a surprisingly positive reputation
among the ports of the Shackles. They’re seen as particularly efficient, capable
sailors, especially compared to some of the pirates of the region.
Bandu hobgoblins tend to have the runtboss, steelskin, or warmarch heritage.
Kaoling
Life among the hobgoblins of Kaoling—a hobgoblin nation in central Tian
Xia—is especially regimented. Kaoling’s rise to prominence was built on a brutal
commitment to structure and discipline that secured the nation’s place among
the Dragon Empires and instilled a deep sense of order among its populace.
More than the members of other hobgoblin communities, citizens of Kaoling
are used to living as part of a rigid hierarchy; even civilians in Kaoling hold
a specific rank and status within society. Any efforts to rise above one’s rank
outside the approved or official methods are met with swift, harsh punishment.
The Kaoling way of life often produces hobgoblins who are particularly cold
and distant, even by hobgoblin standards. Many expect treachery from their
compatriots as a matter of course, making it difficult for them to trust anyone
but those allies they gain during times of tribulation.
Kaoling hobgoblins tend to have the elfbane or warmarch heritage.
