123
Fox Families
Due to their shifting nature, kitsune
often have mixed-ancestry family
units. The children of a kitsune and
a non-kitsune can inherit either of
their parent’s lineages, though many
assume that a human baby born to a
kitsune is simply a kitsune that has
yet to reveal their true form. This has
led to the widespread misconception
that all offspring of kitsune are
themselves kitsune.
celestial envoY kitsune
Whether due to Daikitsu’s grace or faithful forebears, you have a strong
connection to the divine, affording you certain protections. You gain the Invoke
Celestial Privilege reaction. Your alternate form is a common Medium humanoid
ancestry prevalent where you grew up (typically human), called a tailless form.
INVOKE CELESTIAL PRIVILEGE [reaction]
Trigger You attempt a saving throw against a divine effect, but you haven’t rolled yet.
You rise above the triggering effect, refusing to be harmed by it. You gain a +1
circumstance bonus to the triggering saving throw and to any other saving throws
you attempt against divine effects until the start of your next turn.
dark Fields kitsune
You can exert your unsettling presence to subtly Demoralize others. When
you do, Demoralize loses the auditory trait and gains the visual trait, and you
don’t take a penalty when you attempt to Demoralize a creature that doesn’t
understand your language. You also gain the Invigorating Fear reaction. Your
alternate form is a fox, which has the statistics of 1st-level pest form.
INVIGORATING FEAR [reaction]
Frequency once per hour
Trigger A creature within 60 feet gains the frightened condition.
You are invigorated by the shock of a prank or the thrum of terror. You gain
temporary Hit Points equal to the creature’s level or 3, whichever is higher.
earthlY wilds kitsune
You are a creature of the material world, with an affinity closer to the wilds
than urban society. You gain a jaws unarmed
attack that deals 1d6 piercing damage. Your
jaws are in the brawling group and have the
finesse and unarmed traits. Your alternate
form is a fox, which has the statistics of
1st-level pest form.
eMPtY skY kitsune
Your spirit is open to the secrets of beyond, granting
you greater access to kitsune magic. You gain the Kitsune
Spell Familiarity ancestry feat. Your alternate form is a
common Medium humanoid ancestry prevalent where you
grew up (typically human), called a tailless form.
Frozen wind kitsune
Your ancestors crossed the Crown of the World or resided on
snowy peaks. You gain cold resistance equal to half your level
(minimum 1). You treat environmental cold effects as if they
were one step less extreme (incredible cold becomes extreme,
extreme cold becomes severe, and so on). Your alternate form is a
common Medium humanoid ancestry prevalent where you grew up
(typically human), called a tailless form.
KITSUNE FEATS
At 1st level, you gain one ancestry feat, and you gain an additional ancestry
feat every 4 levels thereafter (at 5th, 9th, 13th, and 17th levels). As a kitsune,
you select from among the following ancestry feats. Additionally, when you
gain a level, you can grow one or more tails. Your maximum number of tails
is equal to the level of the highest-level spell you can cast from your spell
slots or non-cantrip kitsune innate spells, or 1 + your number of kitsune
ancestry feats, whichever is higher, to a maximum of nine tails.
ANCESTRY
GUIDE
EXPANDED
ANCESTRIES
AND
HERITAGES
NEW
ANCESTRIES
AND
HERITAGES
ANCESTRAL
GEAR
GLOSSARY
AND INDEX
