39
in the same square as a Small or smaller ally. No more than two creatures can share
the same space when using this ability or a similar one.
DRAGONBLOOD PARAGON
FEAT 9
KOBOLD
Prerequisites strongjaw kobold heritage, venomtail kobold heritage, Dracomancer,
or Kobold Breath (Advanced Player’s Guide 14 –15)
Your draconic anatomy becomes especially pronounced. You increase the power of
one of the following kobold heritages or feats you have.
Dracomancer Increase the number of times you can cast each of the granted
1st- and 2nd-level innate spells by 1.
Kobold Breath Creatures that critically fail their save against your Kobold Breath
take 3d4 persistent damage of the type dealt by your draconic patron.
Strongjaw Kobold Your jaws unarmed attack gains the deadly d6 trait.
Venomtail Kobold You produce enough venom to use the Tail Toxin action twice
per day.
SNARE COMMANDO [reaction]
FEAT 9
KOBOLD
Prerequisites expert in Deception or Intimidation, Snare Crafting
Trigger A creature fails or critically fails a save against your snare.
Your snares are so befuddling that your victims rarely notice you slipping out
of sight. If you have expert proficiency in Deception, you can Create a Diversion
against the triggering creature. If you have expert proficiency in Intimidation, you
can instead Demoralize the triggering creature. If you have both, choose one of the
two effects.
13TH LEVEL
HATCHLING FLIGHT [one-action]
FEAT 13
KOBOLD
Prerequisites Winglets
Frequency once per round
You can fly a little! You Fly up to half your Speed. If you don’t end
your movement on solid ground, you fall at the end of your turn.
KOBOLD WEAPON EXPERTISE
FEAT 13
KOBOLD
Prerequisites Kobold Weapon Familiarity
Whenever you gain a class feature that grants you expert or greater proficiency in a
given weapon or weapons, you also gain that proficiency in the crossbow, greatpick,
light pick, pick, and spear, as well as any kobold weapons in which you are trained.
VICIOUS SNARES
FEAT 13
KOBOLD
Prerequisites expert in Crafting, Snare Crafting
You’ve learned how to create traps that cause greater injuries. You deal
an additional 1d6 precision damage with damaging snares you craft.
This increases to 2d6 additional precision damage if you’re legendary
in Crafting.
17TH LEVEL
WYRMLING FLIGHT
FEAT 17
KOBOLD
Prerequisites Hatchling Flight
Your draconic wings have grown large and strong enough for flight. You gain a fly
Speed equal to your Speed, using your wings to stay aloft.
Traps!
Kobolds are renowned trap-makers
and take great pride in their ability to
design, develop, and construct cunning
and complex varieties of these hidden
defensive mechanisms, which they
call “slow fangs.” They often test new
trap concepts far from their homes,
using them to hunt or harass disliked
neighbors. This allows kobolds to
iterate on designs, sometimes mixing
traps to see if they’re more effective
in tandem rather than alone. Only
once a trap idea has proven effective
is it considered worthy to defend a
kobold settlement.
Trap-makers are treated by most
kobold settlements as intellectual
elites, and are often given the kind of
deference other cultures reserve for
priests and war heroes. A kobold tribe
lacking a trap-maker is likely to send
an emissary to find one and implore
them to come teach their craft.
ANCESTRY
GUIDE
EXPANDED
ANCESTRIES
AND
HERITAGES
NEW
ANCESTRIES
AND
HERITAGES
ANCESTRAL
GEAR
GLOSSARY
AND INDEX
