29
just inside the borders of Nirmathas, lorekeepers keep meticulous records of
known duskwalkers and consider each discovery an important omen.
Duskwalker elves are often difficult to distinguish from mundane elves,
although silver-gray hair is common. Some duskwalker elves are born with
a faint spiderweb pattern on their skin, and spiders are unduly fond of them.
Duskwalker gnomes seem rarer even than those of other ancestries, although
the handful that exist are often mistaken for bleachlings due to their muted
color palette and restrained manner. This often makes them either particularly
popular or unpopular among their brethren, much like bleachlings, though
they are welcomed on the Isle of Irrere, near the Linnorm Kingdoms.
Duskwalkers of goblin ancestry are particularly rare, as fewer goblins have yet
performed actions in service to the cycle of life and death. Duskwalker asceticism
often causes mundane goblins to consider duskwalker goblins as “ungobliny.”
In the reclaimed lands of the Sarkoris Scar, they are nevertheless seen as lucky,
attracting death to themselves (variously defined but often personified as undead
with big teeth) and thus diverting it away from other goblins.
Duskwalker halflings are usually thinner than other halflings, even skeletal, and
frequently have delicate features with pronounced cheekbones. The occasional
duskwalker halfling to manifest in Cheliax is usually captured as a runaway and
disappeared before they can be adopted or find a way to survive on their own.
Duskwalker humans have the classic monochromatic palette of their kind.
A few among them, especially those manifesting in Tian Xia, possess curling
ram horns. Duskwalker humans appear more frequently in Ustalav, though the
paranoia of that land means that many have a hard time finding homes. Such
duskwalkers often live as outcast orphans in graveyards, which paradoxically
makes their communities safer from the undead.
Young duskwalkers are often prone to wanderlust
and a desire to prove their significance; surely, if they’ve
been given a second chance at existence, they should
make the most of it. Many seek out chances to fight
undead or aid psychopomps in their work, or simply
to do great deeds that might justify their reincarnation.
ANCESTRY FEATS
The following ancestry feats are available to duskwalkers.
1ST LEVEL
CHANCE DEATH [reaction]
FEAT 1
DUSKWALKER
FORTUNE
Frequency once per day
Trigger You would die as a result of a failed saving throw or recovery check.
Your previous life ended due to sheer poor luck, struck by lightning or choking on
a fish bone. You can reroll the triggering recovery check or saving throw, but you
must use the new result, even if it’s worse than the first roll.
Special You can select this feat only at 1st level, and you can’t retrain into or out
of this feat.
DELIBERATE DEATH [reaction]
FEAT 1
DUSKWALKER
Frequency once per day
Trigger You are about to gain the dying condition as a result of another creature’s
attack or ability, and that creature is within your melee reach.
Once, you died because someone—murderer or monster, soldier or executioner—
chose to strike you down. Just before losing consciousness, make a melee Strike
against the triggering creature.
Special You can select this feat only at 1st level, and you can’t retrain into or
out of this feat.
Taking Tea with Death
Psychopomps can recognize a
duskwalker on sight, and most types
of psychopomp are much more
likely to start up a conversation
with a duskwalker they encounter
during their appointed tasks than
any other mortal. Nosois might trade
shiny objects or sweets for tidbits of
knowledge, morrignas might give a
warning of a nearby undead threat,
and so on. Rarely, a psychopomp
might take a shine to a duskwalker
and visit from time to time—though
given the way psychopomps measure
time, these gaps could be months,
years, or even decades.
ANCESTRY
GUIDE
EXPANDED
ANCESTRIES
AND
HERITAGES
NEW
ANCESTRIES
AND
HERITAGES
ANCESTRAL
GEAR
GLOSSARY
AND INDEX
