102
Ifrit Settlements
The City of Brass, the largest city on
the Elemental Planes, has a population
that overshadows even the greatest
cities on Golarion. More ifrits are born
here than anywhere else, though they
are born second-class citizens.
Cinderveil, an ifrit city on the Plane of
Shadow, was founded 100 years ago
when a mountain corresponding to
the location of the Eye of Abendego
on the Material Plane erupted in ash
and dust.
1ST LEVEL
BRIGHTSOUL
FEAT 1
IFRIT
LINEAGE
The fire inside you asserts itself as beaming, radiant light. Your body is naturally
luminescent, glowing with the effects of a primal light cantrip. A cantrip
is heightened to a spell level equal to half your level rounded up. The light is
involuntary and constant; if counteracted, it returns in 1d4 rounds. You suffer
a –2 circumstance penalty on Stealth checks to Hide or Sneak and gain a +1
circumstance bonus on saves against light effects and effects that inflict the
blinded or dazzled conditions.
CINDERSOUL
FEAT 1
IFRIT
LINEAGE
The fire of your elemental ancestor manifests like dying embers of a blaze, and your
inner charcoal helps staunch bleeding, purify simple poisons, and absorb acid. The
DC for you to recover from persistent acid, bleed, and poison damage is 10 instead
of 15 (or 5 if you have particularly effective assistance).
EMBER’S EYES
FEAT 1
IFRIT
Your eyes blaze with inner flame. You gain low-light vision, or you gain darkvision
if your ancestry already has low-light vision.
Special If your ancestry has neither low-light vision nor darkvision, you can
take this ancestry feat a second time to gain darkvision. You can’t retrain
out of this feat.
INNER FIRE
FEAT 1
IFRIT
You can call the fire inside you into the palm of your hand. You can cast
the produce flame cantrip as an innate primal or arcane spell at will. A cantrip is
heightened to a spell level equal to half your level rounded up.
LAVASOUL
FEAT 1
IFRIT
LINEAGE
Your elemental lineage manifests as magma and molten rock, and you can focus
the magma into your hand to attack your foes. You gain a magma spike unarmed
attack, which requires a free hand to use. This is an agile, finesse, unarmed attack in
the brawling weapon group that deals 1d4 piercing damage, as well as 1 additional
fire damage. Instead of the normal critical specialization effect, the target takes 1d6
persistent fire damage; you gain a bonus on this persistent damage equal to your
item bonus to attack rolls on unarmed attacks.
SINISTER APPEARANCE
FEAT 1
IFRIT
You possess horns, a tail, or red eyes, or could otherwise be mistaken for a tiefling.
You gain the trained proficiency rank in Intimidation. If you would automatically
become trained in Intimidation (from your background or class, for example), you
instead become trained in a skill of your choice. You gain the Intimidating Glare skill
feat, as well as a +2 circumstance bonus on Deception checks to Impersonate when
pretending to be a version of yourself who is a tiefling.
5TH LEVEL
FIRESIGHT
FEAT 5
IFRIT
You can see through the haze of flame. You automatically succeed at the flat check
to target a concealed creature if that creature is concealed only by smoke and fire.
