133
Hit Points
8
Size
Medium
Speed
25 feet
Ability Boosts
Dexterity
Free
Languages
Common
Strix
Additional languages equal to your
Intelligence modifier (if positive).
Choose from Draconic, Giant, Gnome,
Infernal, and any other languages to
which you have access (such as the
languages prevalent in your region).
Traits
Humanoid
Strix
Wings
All strix possess powerful wings.
While not all strix focus on honing
their flying skills, a strong flap of
their wings allows strix to travel
longer distances when jumping.
When Leaping horizontally, you
move an additional 5 feet. You don’t
automatically fail your checks to High
Jump or Long Jump if you don’t Stride
at least 10 feet first. In addition,
when you make a Long Jump, you
can jump a distance up to 10 feet
further than your Athletics check
result, though still with the normal
maximum of your Speed.
Low-Light Vision
You can see in dim light as though it
were bright light, so you ignore the
concealed condition due to dim light.
societY
Strix are rare and reclusive people who cling to their ancestral territories.
They live in modest-sized tribes, but some reside in smaller bands of
tight-knit individuals. The largest settlements of strix reside on Devil’s Perch,
but a small number of their ilk have traveled far across Golarion. Strix feel
an intense empathy and attachment to their family and other community
members. They prioritize the needs of their community over their individual
desires, and their bands and tribes benefit from an easy yet expertly organized
division of labor. Strix tribes are led by a rokoa, a female tribal leader.
A long history of conflict with the nearby nation of Cheliax has bred into
most strix a deep fear and suspicion of humans—who they call kotaara. Strix
have struggled to keep hold of their territories and maintain their numbers in
the face of constant conflict with these enemies who, in addition to trying to
destroy what they believe to be winged devils, vastly outnumber them. Due to
their strongly bonded groups, the loss of a single tribe member is devastating.
alignMent anD religion
Due to their deep respect for the rules of a functioning society, strix are rarely
chaotic, but some may be flexible on adopting the rules of outside societies.
Strix are typically nonreligious and instead use stories from an epic known as
the Korrsat Akra, or “The Scattered Nest,” to tell them of their origins and give
them direction on their current place in the world. They have a deep investment
in the lives of their fellows and experience intense grief at their passing.
Pharasma is a common influence among religious strix due to the popularity of
religious and spiritual practices honoring the lives and deaths in their beloved
community. Gozreh is also an everyday influence for many strix, who beseech
the Wind and the Waves to give them satisfying tailwinds for flight and protect
their kin when the sky turns dark with fury. Erastil and even Torag represent
two versions of social order and may be unifying deities across entire tribes.
naMes
Strix names consist of sounds that are reminiscent of chirping, screeches,
or trilling by various birds, and their naming conventions are influenced
primarily by tradition and spirituality. Strix in small communities might
share a common syllable among all their names to express their unity. Due
to their deep affection for their family members, naming children after other
loved ones is very common, occasionally with an additional syllable or slight
change to the pronunciation.
saMPle naMes
Chiit-iir, Cicreeti, Ikatarii, Irkoata, Kaata, Kiilo, Kirii, Rahka, Roatatwiil,
Turiilo, Turuk, Twilii
STRIX OF THE INNER SEA
Strix aren’t native to the Inner Sea region. According to strix legend, they
became permanent residents after being deposited among the steep spires and
plunging valleys of Devil’s Perch from somewhere distant and unknown by a
catastrophic magical storm. Since their arrival at Devil’s Perch, a mountainous
area in the southwest region of Cheliax’s Menador Mountains, strix have
been in perpetual conflict with nearby human populations. Strix believe that
this ongoing slaughter of their precious kinfolk is a continuation of a curse
from the gods that banished them to Devil’s Perch. The strix of the Inner Sea
region have a dark relationship with their history, and mysteries lie obscured
somewhere among the vast skies between their current residence in Cheliax
and their distant relatives in Arcadia and beyond.
Physiologically very similar to humans, strix most notably differ in the
12-foot feathered wingspans spread from their back and curved talons in
the place of toes. Strix of the Inner Sea region universally grow white hair.
ANCESTRY
GUIDE
EXPANDED
ANCESTRIES
AND
HERITAGES
NEW
ANCESTRIES
AND
HERITAGES
ANCESTRAL
GEAR
GLOSSARY
AND INDEX
