141
fetchling* A humanoid ancestry that fled to and has been shaped by
the Shadow Plane. Typically refer to themselves as kayals. 82–87
fiend A creature that hails from or has a strong connection to one of
the evil-aligned planes.
Firebrands A rebellious organization known for its members’ daredevil
acts and efforts to fight oppression. Character Guide 66–75
First World A plane that overlaps the Material Plane, said to be a
first draft of existence. Home to vibrant landscapes and fey.
Gamemastery Guide 141
Five Kings Mountains A region in southeast Avistan that’s the center
of dwarven civilization in the Inner Sea region. World Guide 125–126
fleshwarp* A humanoid transformed so completely by outside forces
that they are now a unique ancestry. 88–93
Free Captains The leaders of pirates in the Shackles.
Freehold A small town in central Vidrian.
frost goblin A major goblin subgroup found in frigid climates.
Character Guide 35–36
Frostkin A major half-orc ethnic subgroup common to the far north of
Avistan and the Crown of the World. Character Guide 14
Galt A nation in eastern Avistan, known as a land of constant political
upheaval and revolution. World Guide 126
ganzi* A planar scion descended from a chaotic being of the
Maelstrom, such as a protean. 94–97
Garund One of Golarion’s continents. Its northern portion makes up
the southern half of the Inner Sea region. World Guide 8
Garundi A common human ethnicity in the Inner Sea region spanning
the nations of northern Garund. Character Guide 6
Geb A nation in eastern Garund that’s a haven for undead. World
Guide 76–77
geniekin* An umbrella term for planar scions descended from beings
from the Elemental Planes. 98–119
Gholinom An alghollthu city deep beneath the sea off the western
coast of Rahadoum. World Guide 69
gnome A small ancestry skilled at magic and driven to seek out new
experiences. Character Guide 28–33
Gnomish The language of gnomes.
goblin A small, scrappy ancestry with a love of songs and fire.
Character Guide 34–39
Goblin The language of bugbears, goblins, and hobgoblins.
Goka A large city-state in western Tian Xia.
Golarion The primary world in the Lost Omens campaign setting.
World Guide 6–9
Golden Road This region in northern Garund and part of southeastern
Avistan includes Katapesh, Osirion, Qadira, Rahadoum, and Thuvia.
World Guide 48–59
Gorum Chaotic neutral god of battle, strength, and weapons. Known
as Our Lord in Iron. Gods & Magic 24–25
Green Faith A neutral philosophy that proclaims natural forces are
worthy of attention and respect. Gods & Magic 96
Grondaksen One of the three major dwarven ethnicities. Typically
live underground. Character Guide 17
half-orc A prominent heritage in the Inner Sea region, descended
from humans and orcs. Character Guide 10–11
halfling A small, cheerful ancestry sometimes considered to be
inherently lucky. Character Guide 40–45
Halfling The language of halflings.
Harrow A method of divination that uses cards known as a harrow
deck to tell fortunes. Especially popular in Varisia.
Heaven A plane that embodies order and compassion, home to
the celestials known as archons. The plane is lawful good.
Gamemastery Guide 143–144
Hell A cruel, constructed plane separated into nine distinct layers
and home to the fiends known as devils. The plane is lawful evil.
Gamemastery Guide 144
Hellknights A set of knightly orders with a strict focus on maintaining
order and upholding the law. Character Guide 76–85
hobgoblin* A sturdy, clever ancestry with a propensity for militaristic
order. 32–35, Character Guide 48–51
Holtaksen One of the three major dwarven ethnicities. Commonly live
atop mountains and along their slopes. Character Guide 18–19
House Thrune The ruling noble house of Cheliax.
human A diverse ancestry known for their adaptability. Character
Guide 5–15
Icemark A territory in the northern part of the Lands of the Linnorm
Kings.
ifrit* A type of geniekin descended from a being from the Plane of
Fire. 100–103
Ilverani A major elven ethnic group, sometimes known as snowcasters,
that live in the Crown of the World. Character Guide 23–24
Impossible Lands The region in eastern Garund that consists of Geb,
Jalmeray, the Mana Wastes, and Nex. World Guide 72–83
Infernal The common language of the denizens of Hell, that often
requires very precise enunciation.
Inner Sea The sea cradled between Avistan and Garund. Created by
the reshaping of the region during Earthfall.
Inner Sea region The collective name for the continent of Avistan and
the northern portion of Garund, surrounding the Inner Sea.
Inner Sphere The center of the Great Beyond, consisting of the Astral
Plane, Elemental Planes, Energy Planes, Ethereal Plane, the First
World, the Material Plane, and the Shadow Plane. Gamemastery
Guide 138–140
Iobaria A nation in western Casmaron that has become an unsettled
frontier after a number of plagues.
Irori Lawful neutral god of history, knowledge, and self-perfection.
Known as the Master of Masters. Gods & Magic 30–31
Irrisen A nation in northwestern Avistan known for its constant
winter and rule by winter witches. World Guide 110–112
Isger A vassal nation to Cheliax located in southern central Avistan.
Home to several goblin clans. World Guide 100–102
Jalmeray An island nation off the eastern coast of Garund that is
home to immigrants from the distant region of Vudra. World Guide
77–79
Jaric A halfling ethnic group that mostly dwells in the Barrier Wall
mountains of Garund. Character Guide 41
Jotun The language of giants and related creatures.
Kallijae One of the three ethnic groups that make up the Mualijae
elves; native to the northwestern Mwangi Expanse. Character
Guide 24
Katapesh A nation on the northeastern coast of Garund known for its
markets. World Guide 51–53
Keleshite In the Inner Sea region, this human ethnicity is common
among the nations of the Golden Road. Character Guide 6–7
Kellid A human ethnicity of the Inner Sea region, originating among
the mountains and steppes of northern Avistan. Character Guide 7
Kintargo The capital of the nation of Ravounel.
kitsune* Shapeshifting humanoids whose true forms resemble foxes.
120–125
kobold* A small, reptilian humanoid ancestry proud of their kinship
to dragons. 36–39, Advanced Player’s Guide 12–15
Kraggodan The dwarven Sky Citadel located in the southern Mindspin
Mountains in Nirmathas.
Kyonin A nation in central Avistan, known as the center of elven
culture in the region. World Guide 127–128
Lake Encarthan A large lake located in central Avistan that facilitates
trade throughout the region. World Guide 41
Lands of the Linnorm Kings A region in northwestern Avistan known for
its harsh environs and fierce leaders. World Guide 112–113
leshy* An ancestry of sapient plants animated by primal magic.
40–43, Character Guide 52–55
lizardfolk* Extremely adaptable and patient reptilian humanoids.
Also known as iruxi. 44–47, Character Guide 56–59
Maelstrom The collective term for the uncharted and chaotic areas
on the metaphysical borders of the planes of the Outer Sphere.
Home to the monitors known as proteans. The plane is chaotic
neutral. Gamemastery Guide 144
Magaambya The oldest academy of arcane learning in the Inner
Sea region, located in the city of Nantambu. Character Guide
96–105
Magnimar One of the major city-states in Varisia. Known as the City
of Monuments.
Mana Wastes A region located in eastern Garund, known for its areas
of dead and wild magic. World Guide 79–80
Material Plane The plane located with the Inner Sphere that
encompasses the known universe, including Golarion and its solar
system. Gamemastery Guide 138–139
Mendev A nation located in northeastern Avistan that served as a
launching point for crusades against the demons of the Sarkoris
Scar. World Guide 28–29
Mihrini A halfling ethnic group hailing from Iobaria and eastern
Avistan. Character Guide 41–42
Minkai A large empire centered in eastern Tian Xia, known for its
recently quelled civil instability.
Molthune A nation in central Avistan, dominated by its military and
at war with Nirmathas. World Guide 42
ANCESTRY
GUIDE
EXPANDED
ANCESTRIES
AND
HERITAGES
NEW
ANCESTRIES
AND
HERITAGES
ANCESTRAL
GEAR
GLOSSARY
AND INDEX
