37
have no patron, but they do have friendly relations with at least one sphinx,
for whom they run errands. Small even for kobolds, with yellowish scales
and subdued features, the Glassclaws work to ensure that no one ever breaks
Katapesh’s famous Glass Pyramids. They claim they were given this task by
a celestial entity 100 generations ago and dismiss any claim that the Glass
Pyramids aren’t that old.
Glassclaws typically have the spellscale or strongjaw kobold heritage.
iCerenderS
The Icerenders inhabit hundreds of tunnel warrens within the Tusk Mountains
in the Realm of the Mammoth Lords. Their white scales and icy blue eyes
serve as excellent camouflage, which they use to set ambushes on passing
caravans. They choose a new pass every few years, clearing it of ice and snow
to make it inviting to travelers. Their lord, the dragon Lydek the White, attacks
caravans that try to pass to the south, encouraging the use of the Icerenders’
passes. Icerenders only set upon caravans that won’t be missed or that have
truly valuable loot—though some of the tribe have begun to wonder what
opportunities might lie at either end of these caravan’s journeys.
Icerenders usually have the dragonscaled or spellscale kobold heritage.
Sewer dragonS oF aBSalom
The tribe that became the Sewer Dragons first tunneled into Absalom’s
subterranean drainage system in 4696 ar. The kobolds quickly found that their
aptitude for navigating tight spaces, mapping complex subterranean tunnels,
and making new passageways posed a highly sought-after skillset beneath the
City at the Center of the World. The Sewer Dragons have a much broader range
of coloration than many kobold tribes, in part because they happily accept any
kobold willing to work. The tribe continues to grow its reach and political
influence in Absalom, almost becoming its own guild within the city.
Sewer Dragons often have the caveclimber or venomtail kobold heritage.
KOBOLD HERITAGES
The following heritages are available to kobolds.
CaveClimBer KoBold
You live in a vertically-oriented home, and you’re
a consummate climber. You gain the Combat
Climber skill feat, even if you don’t meet the
prerequisites. You can use your clawed feet
and tail to Climb, leaving your hands
free. Additionally, if you succeed
at an Athletics check to Climb,
you critically succeed instead.
tunnelFlood KoBold
You grew up in a warren crisscrossed by underwater
passages, whether natural or excavated. You gain a swim Speed of
15 feet.
ANCESTRY FEATS
Kobolds can select from the following ancestry feats.
1ST LEVEL
DRACONIC SYCOPHANT
FEAT 1
KOBOLD
You have an affect that dragonkind find unusually pleasing—and when
that fails, you know when to duck. You gain a +2 circumstance bonus to Perception
Kobold Origins
Kobolds in the Inner Sea region have
numerous origin stories, many tied
to the conflict between the dragon
gods Dahak and Apsu. Kobolds who
live in caves near the surface often
believe they predate true dragons, as
Dahak scooped up their ancestors and
transformed them into dragons. The
further a kobold settlement is from a
cave system, the less these tales link
kobolds directly to dragons. Kobolds
in swamps generally tell of their birth
from blood that Dahak shed in battle,
while those who dwell in trees and
mountains often believe they were
born of Dahak’s tears.
ANCESTRY
GUIDE
EXPANDED
ANCESTRIES
AND
HERITAGES
NEW
ANCESTRIES
AND
HERITAGES
ANCESTRAL
GEAR
GLOSSARY
AND INDEX
