61
None of Golarion’s ancestries can claim complete freedom from fiendish
influence. Tiefling humans are perhaps the most prevalent and the most likely
to show the classic markers of horn, hoof, and tail. Tieflings are particularly
common in devil-worshipping Cheliax, where they’re still outcasts, but for
a different reason—rather than a forbidden evil, they’re viewed as symbols
of weakness in interactions with devils. To Chelaxians, a tiefling signals that
someone couldn’t control their diabolic powers or resist the machinations of a
devil, and often are thus pitied or held in contempt.
Tiefling goblins are also quite common, a consequence of the ancestry’s
frequent worship of Lamashtu. Tieflings in such communities often receive
great respect as symbols of divine favor and for their unusually sharp and
vicious teeth—sometimes multiple rows of them.
Other societies treat tieflings less kindly. Tiefling dwarves, usually notable for
their glowing eyes of crimson flame, are rarely appreciated by their kin.  For
example, the Pahmet dwarves of Osirion hide, smuggle away, and occasionally
even kill such tieflings at birth, believing that a tiefling symbolizes some great
crime or dereliction of duty on the part of the family as a whole.
Tiefling elves frequently have exceptionally long, delicate-looking horns, and
occasionally more than one set. They also possess vestigial wings more often
than other tieflings, though even among elves, winged tieflings remain quite
rare. The Mualijae elves of Garund are no more fond of tieflings than anyone
else, but they tend to take a more utilitarian approach to them; their society
encourages tieflings to become warriors and demon hunters, reasoning that
they couldn’t possibly become more corrupted than they already are.
Tieflings of halfling ancestry are most often found in Cheliax as well, but
where tiefling humans are pitied, tiefling halflings are considered threats to
the ruling class and often killed by the Church of Asmodeus. Other halfling
slaves have decidedly mixed feelings about their fiend-blooded kin, expressing
sympathy for their plight touched with horror for what they represent. Tiefling
halflings frequently have hooves and forked or unusually long tongues.
Tiefling gnomes aren’t particularly common since their ties to the First World
often serve as a sort of inoculation against fiendish corruption. When they do
appear, they’re frequently mistaken for fell gnomes, with whom they get along
quite well. Tiefling gnomes often have peculiarly elongated fingers, sometimes
with extra joints and claw-like nails—such tieflings have an iron grip, despite
the seeming fragility of their hands.
Many tieflings live transient lives, traveling in search of work and acceptance,
however temporary. Few people will go out of their way to harass a grown
tiefling, particularly one that has fangs or claws or worse, but smart tieflings
know that it’s only a matter of time before something gets blamed on the local
fiend-blood. Tieflings often gravitate to major cities as a result, seeking anonymity
in urban life, or else choose the wilderness over civilization altogether. Those
rare tieflings who actually find a community that wholeheartedly accepts them
defend their new homes with zealous ferocity.
ANCESTRY FEATS
The following ancestry feats are available to tieflings.
1ST LEVEL
BEASTBROOD
FEAT 1
LINEAGE
TIEFLING
One of your ancestors was a rakshasa, the corrupt and aristocratic reincarnated
souls that call Golarion home. You have some dim echo of your ancestor’s memories—
enough to play the role of noble as needed, no matter your origins. You’re trained
in Society. If you’re already trained in Society (from your background or class, for
example), you instead become trained in a skill of your choice. You also gain the
Courtly Graces skill feat.
Tiefling Adventurers
For many tieflings, becoming an
adventurer is a natural progression.
The typical tiefling already relies on
no one but themself or a few chosen
comrades, lives a semi-nomadic
existence to avoid trouble, and tends
to have very developed opinions on
good and evil and the necessity of
intervening on one side or the other.
Tieflings often grow up as outcasts,
and the charlatan, criminal, hermit,
nomad, and street urchin backgrounds
might fit, with unluckier tieflings
coming from the prisoner background.
Many tieflings become rogues or
bards as a means of survival, while
others access the powers of their
blood to become sorcerers. Some
become wizards, monks, or clerics in
an effort to gain mastery over their
fiendish corruption.
ANCESTRY
GUIDE
EXPANDED
ANCESTRIES
AND
HERITAGES
NEW
ANCESTRIES
AND
HERITAGES
ANCESTRAL
GEAR
GLOSSARY
AND INDEX
