These dynamic, fluid mortals trace their ancestry to creatures from the Plane of Water,
such as marids, water mephits, and brine dragons.
Undine
116
116
Undines often go through life in a series of shifting
phases, their interests waxing, waning, or sometimes
morphing altogether as old loves are discarded for
new interests. Structure provides a much-needed focus
to undines’ lives, and without strong goals or support
from those around them, undines can find themselves
stagnating in feelings of despondence. Most undines
feel they personify specific aspects of water, some seeing
themselves with the strength and power of the waves, the
speed and tenacity of a river current, or the
calm of a peaceful lake or pond. Others identify with all
these aspects and more, their demeanors shifting like the
tides from one situation to the next.
Undines born with a connection only to a specific
subtype of elemental water, such as ice, brine, or mist,
might have a specific undine lineage. These are typically
passed down from parent to child, as with other geniekin,
but on occasion, a child is born with a lineage never
seen in their family. Sometimes lineages are the result
of where an undine’s ancestors lived, such as rimesoul
undines being born in the cold northern countries or
at the tops of mountain peaks. At other times it can be
related to the undine’s elemental heritage, as is often
the case with brinesoul undines, who usually descend
from brine dragons. Mistsoul undines might have a
distant but powerful connection to elemental water,
or might even have a bit of elemental air mixed into
their ancestry.
You Might...
• Relate your identity to elemental water and believe
the streams and tides represent core aspects of your
personality.
• Be equally comfortable above the waves as you are
beneath them.
• Take great pride in your elemental lineage,
especially if you believe you are related to the
formidable marid shahzadas.
others ProbablY...
• Look to you as an authority on water magic or
the elemental planes.
• Think you can speak with aquatic creatures.
• Assume you are easily swayed by others, with few
real opinions of your own.
PhYsical descriPtion
With all the same diversity in height, body type, and
physical characteristics as any other member of their
ancestries, undine coloration runs a vast breadth of
variation. Most commonly, an undine’s skin and
hair mimic the colors of the lakes, seas, or
oceans near where they were born, ranging
from the palest of blues to sea greens and
navies. A rare few undines may even take
on the bioluminescence of deep-sea fish, the
bright colors of corals and anemones, or the
pale bone hues of seashells. More unusual
traits can include fin-like ears, thin layers of
shimmering fish scales covering their bodies,
