Tiefling
60
When a trace of fiendish corruption worms its way into an unborn child, the
babe is born a tiefling, bearing certain uncanny traits. In popular imagination,
and often in actuality, this manifestation stems from some past liaison between
one of the child’s ancestors and some manner of fiend. For example, many
pitborn claim, accurately or not, to have a succubus in their family tree. Casting
fiendish magic, worshipping the lords of below, or signing a diabolic pact all
have the possibility of thus afflicting one’s descendants—though even less
common tiefling origins are also possible. Many beastbrood tieflings result
from a failed or partial rakshasa reincarnation, while the riftmarked simply
have the misfortune of being born too near a qlippoth runestone.
TIEFLINGS OF THE INNER SEA
Tieflings rarely have happy childhoods, as few places in Golarion welcome
the fiend-blooded. The luckiest tieflings possess easy-to-hide fiendish traits and
unusually understanding parents, yet they often still learn the importance of
constant secrecy and deceit. Less fortunate tieflings grow up as outcasts or get
shunned by their fearful families, left to live as street children and beggars.
Some tieflings never get a chance to grow up at all.
Tieflings tend to develop a wide range of coping strategies; most have a
strong cautious streak. Even the ones that grow up in loving families and
open-minded communities usually know that these are far from universal traits,
and so they tend to be prickly, suspicious, and slow to trust. Many tieflings
develop tricks to ward off hostility and suspicion from outsiders—they might
grow adept at hiding their nature, cultivate a repertoire of jokes and stories to
defuse situations, or simply develop psychological armor a foot thick.
On the other hand, those that do earn a tiefling’s loyalty find it nearly
unshakable. Tieflings know they can’t afford to waste precious relationships
in an oft-unfriendly world, and so cherish their friends and loved ones. A loyal
tiefling will cross deserts, scale mountains, and risk dragons for a friend. This
devotion isn’t always a good thing, though, as sometimes those inclined to
offer tieflings a warm smile and helping hand have cruel intentions or, unlike
most tieflings, have been outcast for very good and sensible reasons (such as
practicing demonology).
No matter their lineage, tieflings also tend to have more developed
philosophical viewpoints than most people. To a tiefling, good and evil aren’t
distant abstractions, but questions of immediate import. Can a demon’s child
truly be good? What does it mean to accept your devilish blood? Tieflings have
as much free will as any other person in Golarion, but they don’t always realize
it, and more than one tiefling has embraced or raged against their heritage out
of some sense of ironbound destiny.
Tieflings are among the most physically mutable of planar scions. Fiends
come in endlessly diverse shapes and forms, so when filtered through the quirks
of mortal blood, the results never cease to surprise. Certain traits appear more
commonly than others—a slim majority of tieflings have some combination of
horns, fangs, cloven hooves, tails, and oddly-colored (typically crimson) skin.
Each of these traits varies: a tiefling might have small forehead horns, great
curling ram horns, or wicked antlers like a mule deer. Their skin could have
blue lapis coloration or zebra-like stripes or serpentine scales. They might have
teeth like a wolf or a shark or a viper. Less common lineages have their
own markers. Riftmarked often bear strange birthmarks shaped
like script, while many beastbrood tieflings have inverted hands.
Ultimately though, no two tieflings ever quite have the same
physical quirks, not even siblings.
