106
OREAD ANCESTRY FEATS
At 1st level, you gain one ancestry feat, and you gain an additional ancestry
feat every 4 levels thereafter (at 5th, 9th, 13th, and 17th levels). As an oread,
you can choose from among the following ancestry feats in addition to those
available to your ancestry.
1ST LEVEL
DUSTSOUL
FEAT 1
LINEAGE
OREAD
Your earth elemental ancestor’s influence manifests in you as dust and dirt,
like the soil of a field or the hot desert sands. You gain the trained proficiency
rank in Survival. If you would automatically become trained in Survival (from
your background or class, for example), you instead become trained in a skill
of your choice. You can sustain yourself on dirt and ash instead of normal food
and water.
ELEMENTAL TRADE
FEAT 1
OREAD
You have a strong connection with stone and metal. You gain the trained proficiency
rank in Crafting. If you would automatically become trained in Crafting (from
your background or class, for example), you instead become trained in a skill
of your choice. You gain the Specialty Crafting skill feat for both Stonemasonry
and Blacksmithing.
GEMSOUL
FEAT 1
LINEAGE
OREAD
The earth inside you asserts itself as crystallized gemstones or metals, like a
cluster of quartz or veins of iron and gold. This shimmering presence inside your
being inspires you to flashy and flamboyant performances. You gain the trained
proficiency rank in Performance. If you would automatically become trained in
Performance (from your background or class, for example), you instead become
trained in a skill of your choice. You gain the Impressive Performance skill feat.
MIRESOUL
FEAT 1
LINEAGE
OREAD
You have a connection to the muddier denizens of the Plane of Earth from its
border with the Plane of Water, and your elemental lineage manifests as clay
or mud, reflecting that bond. Your body’s mudlike quality makes it easy for you
to compress and squeeze yourself through smaller areas. You gain the trained
proficiency rank in Acrobatics. If you would automatically become trained in
Acrobatics (from your background or class, for example), you instead become
trained in a skill of your choice. You gain the Quick Squeeze skill feat.
STEADY ON STONE
FEAT 1
OREAD
Your connection to the earth makes natural uneven surfaces less of a hindrance
for you. You can ignore difficult terrain caused by rubble and uneven ground made
of stone and earth. In addition, when you use the Acrobatics skill to Balance on
narrow surfaces or uneven ground made of stone and earth, you aren’t flat-footed,
and when you roll a success at one of these Acrobatics checks, you get a critical
success instead.
5TH LEVEL
FORTIFY SHIELD [one-action]
FEAT 5
OREAD
Prerequisites Shield Block
Oread Settlements
Most oreads prefer to integrate into
the communities of their birth rather
than settle their own cities, but over
time, oread communities naturally
develop and grow in areas with
concentrated oread births.
The dwarven Sky Citadel Janderhoff
in southwestern Varisia has a large
oread population. Dwarf elders
speculate that its proximity to
Crystalrock, a cavern in the Mindspin
Mountains where crystal formations
pulse with a heartbeat, is responsible.
