Glossary and Index
140
This appendix contains brief explanations and page
references for the content presented in this book,
including new rules, locations, deities, organizations, and
so on. New rules content is marked with an asterisk (*).
aasimar* A planar scion descended from a celestial. 8–11, Advanced
Player’s Guide 34–36
Abadar Lawful neutral god of cities, law, and wealth. Known as the
Master of the First Vault. Gods & Magic 12–13
Absalom The largest city in the Inner Sea region, founded by Aroden
and located on Starstone Isle. Absalom, City of Lost Omens
Absalom Reckoning The most commonly used calendar in Avistan
and Garund, consisting of 52 weeks across 12 months. The current
year is 4721 ar.
Abyssal Believed to be the first language developed in the Outer
Sphere. Commonly spoken by demons.
agathion A type of celestial with bestial features, born of the
enlightened soul of a good mortal. Native to Nirvana.
Age of Darkness The age following Earthfall, ranging from –5293 ar
to –4294 ar. World Guide 6
Age of Lost Omens The current age, brought about by the death of
Aroden in 4606 ar. World Guide 8–9
Akiton Fourth planet from the sun. Known as the Red Planet. World
Guide 9
Andoran A relatively young nation in southern Avistan known for
its adherence to democracy and personal freedom. World Guide
122–124
android* A synthetic humanoid ancestry created by artificial means.
Most common in Numeria. 68–73
aphorite* A type of planar scion descended from a being from Axis,
the Plane of Law. 74–77
Arazni Neutral evil god of the abused, dignity, and unwilling undeath.
Known as the Unyielding. Gods & Magic 54
Arcadia One of Golarion’s continents, lying west of the Inner Sea
region past the ruins of Azlant. World Guide 6–7
Ascended The title for the deities who achieved their apotheosis by
completing the Test of the Starstone.
Avistan One of Golarion’s continents. Comprises the northern half of
the Inner Sea region. World Guide 7
Axis A massive planar city known for its adherence to law. Home
to the monitors known as aeons. The plane is lawful neutral.
Gamemastery Guide 142
azarketi* Amphibious humanoids who live among the seas of the
Inner Sea region, said to have descended from the people of
Azlant. Sometimes known as gillmen or Low Azlanti. 12–15
Azlant A vast empire during the Age of Legend, destroyed during
Earthfall. Its ruins remain as islands in the Arcadian Ocean. World
Guide 8, 62–63
Azlanti The athletic humans of the ancient empire of Azlant. Previously
thought lost during Earthfall. Character Guide 10
Barrier Wall A large mountain range spanning across southern
Osirion, Rahadoum, and Thuvia. World Guide 50–51
beastkin* Humanoids that can partially or fully transform into animal
forms. 78–81
Belkzen A region in northwestern Avistan, known as the home of
several orc clans. World Guide 38–40
Besmara Chaotic neutral goddess of piracy, sea monsters, and strife.
Known as the Pirate Queen. Gods & Magic 55
Bleaching A process brought on by ennui that decolors and ages a
gnome, typically culminating in their death.
Boneyard A plane where the souls of the dead travel in the afterlife,
home to the monitors known as psychopomps. The plane is
neutral. Gamemastery Guide 142–143
Brevoy A nation in northeastern Avistan, known for its political
uncertainty. World Guide 26–28
Broken Lands A region in northeastern Avistan consisting of Brevoy,
the Lake of Mists and Veils, Mendev, Numeria, Razmiran, the River
Kingdoms, and the Sarkoris Scar. World Guide 24–35
Calistria Chaotic neutral goddess of lust, revenge, and trickery.
Known as the Savored Sting. Gods & Magic 16–17
Casandalee Neutral goddess of artificial life, free thinking, and
intellectual apotheosis; known as the Iron Goddess. Gods &
Magic 57
Casmaron One of Golarion’s continents, located immediately east of
the Inner Sea region. World Guide 7
catfolk* Humanoids with feline features and a love of discovery.
16–19, Advanced Player’s Guide 8–11
Cayden Cailean Chaotic good god of ale, bravery, freedom, and wine.
Also known as the Accidental God. Gods & Magic 18–19
celestial A creature that hails from or has a strong connection to one
of the good-aligned planes.
changeling* The offspring of a hag and a member of some other
humanoid ancestry. 20–23, Advanced Player’s Guide 30–31
Cheliax A nation in southwest Avistan. Known for its ties to diabolic
rule. World Guide 98–100
Common An alternate name for Taldane, the most widespread
language in the Inner Sea region.
Crown of the World The northernmost of Golarion’s continents that
connects Avistan to Tian Xia. World Guide 7
Darklands The immense area of caverns, vaults, and passages
beneath the surface of Golarion. World Guide 7–8
Dead Roads The metaphysical network connecting the Boneyard
to the Material Plane. Used by psychopomps to travel between
these planes.
Desna Chaotic good goddess of dreams, luck, stars, and travelers.
Known as the Song of the Spheres. Gods & Magic 20–21
dhampir* The immortal offspring of a vampire and a member of
another ancestry. 24–27, Advanced Player’s Guide 32–33
Draconic The ancient language of dragons.
drow Descendants of ancient elves who live within the Darklands.
Druma A nation in southern central Avistan. Known for its prominent
trade and great wealth. World Guide 124–125
duskwalker* A planar scion infused with the supernatural energy of
psychopomps. 28–31, Advanced Player’s Guide 37–38
dwarf A stout, industrious ancestry that often lives underground.
Character Guide 16–21
Dwarven The language of dwarves.
Eagle Knights A state-funded military sworn to defend Andoran.
Some branches work to end slavery in the Inner Sea region. World
Guide 122–123
Earthfall A cataclysmic event in –5293 ar, during which a rain of
meteorites fell upon Golarion and caused massive destruction and
started the Age of Darkness.
Eldest A group of fey deities that focus their attention on the First
World.
Eleder The capital of former Sargava. Now known as Anthusis.
Elemental Planes A set of planes located within the Inner Sphere that
surround the Material Plane. Include the planes of air, water, earth,
and fire. Gamemastery Guide 139–140
elf A mysterious ancestry with rich traditions of magic and
scholarship. Character Guide 22–27
Elven The language of elves.
Elysium A plane full of unbound wilderness, home to the celestials
known as azatas. The plane is chaotic good. Gamemastery Guide 143
Erastil Lawful good god of family, farming, hunting, and trade.
Known as Old Deadeye. Gods & Magic 22–23
Erutaki A common human ethnicity in the Inner Sea region, Erutaki
span the Crown of the World. Character Guide 6
Eye of Abendego An enormous hurricane nestled between
Mediogalti Island, the Shackles, and the Sodden Lands. World
Guide 63–64
Eye of Dread The region in central Avistan consisting of Belkzen, the
Gravelands, Lake Encarthan, Molthune, Nirmathas, Oprak, and
Ustalav. World Guide 36–47
fell gnome A gnome ethnicity with an affinity for occult magic.
Character Guide 29–30
Fever Sea The name for the portion of the Arcadian Ocean that lies off
the western coast of Garund.
