17
QittAj
The diasporic Qittaj catfolk are most common in Kelesh, including some parts
of eastern Qadira. They tend to have yellow or green eyes and striped bronze
or yellow fur. They frequent the busy, sunny marketplaces of Katheer and other
major cities as well as journey through major travel hubs and oases across the
empire. Qittaj catfolk also use surnames, an unusual practice among their kind,
generally taking on an ancestor’s title as the clan surname. They’re also some of
the most religious catfolk, often worshipping Sarenrae.
Qittaj catfolk typically have the nine lives or sharp-eared catfolk heritage.
setHUrril
Sethurrils are the most populous catfolk ethnicity in Garund and Avistan.
Their ancestral home of Murraseth has stood as a rich and influential cultural
touchstone since the Age of Darkness, leading many amurruns to equate
catfolk culture with Sethurril culture. Sethurril fashion favors eye-catching,
multicolor garments with puffy sleeves or flowing cloaks. They’re especially
likely to worship Desna, whom they depict as a kindred catfolk explorer and
hunter of the monsters lurking at the world’s edges.
Sethurrils most often have the jungle or
hunting catfolk heritage.
sHemtej
Many believe Shemtej catfolk to
be the favored children of Bastet
and wardens of dangerous spirits
bound in the remote deserts of Osirion,
Thuvia, and Rahadoum. Male shemtej catfolk
are known for growing full, leonine manes. Their
culture prioritizes free love, and Shemtejes largely
disavow formalized marriage in favor of more fluid
relationship structures. Nomadic family groups known
as trains constantly change membership. Lovers come
and go, children grow up and seek their own paths, and
elders leave to pursue their personal goals.
Shemtejes often have the nine lives or liminal catfolk heritage.
CATFOLK HERITAGES
As a catfolk, you can select your heritage from among the following.
flexible cAtfolk
You’ve inherited flexibility beyond that of most humanoids. You
don’t treat tight spaces that don’t require you to Squeeze as difficult
terrain. In addition, you get a +1 circumstance bonus to checks when
you attempt to Escape.
liminAl cAtfolk
You’ve inherited a closeness to the far corners of the world, where the
boundaries between dimensions grow thin. You can cast detect magic as
an occult innate cantrip heightened to half your level, rounded up. You
also gain a +1 circumstance bonus to Occultism checks to Recall Knowledge
about creatures that originated outside of the Material Plane.
sHArp-eAreD cAtfolk
You were born with big, expressive ears that move with your moods and
perk up at any unexpected sound. You gain a +2 circumstance bonus to locate
undetected creatures that you could hear within 30 feet with a Seek action.
As long as you’re aware of a creature via sound, once per round, your
ears can help you Point Out the creature to all allies as a free action.
Other Catfolk
Numerous catfolk ethnicities exist
beyond the Inner Sea. The black-spotted
Guarrxil of southern Arcadia are
renowned for their principled mercenary
companies and heroic rangers. The
mysterious Caimurru of the western
Arcadian coast trade more with First
World caravans than with other mortals.
The Lyashtaki catfolk of the Valashmai
Jungle sometimes make treks far from
the jungle via coast-hopping boats.
ANCESTRY
GUIDE
EXPANDED
ANCESTRIES
AND
HERITAGES
NEW
ANCESTRIES
AND
HERITAGES
ANCESTRAL
GEAR
GLOSSARY
AND INDEX
