135
especially isolated from other strix kinfolk, leaving many young strix yearning
for larger communities. The nationwide unity of Nidal under Zon-Kuthon’s
faith speaks strongly to some strix who, isolated by meager numbers of their
own kind, have become convinced by the teachings of Zon-Kuthon’s faithful.
Moved by the willingness of the people of Nidal to accept them with a
simple change of faith, strix have begun to leave their distraught families for
Zon-Kuthon’s faith. These individuals believe that faith in Zon-Kuthon may
relieve them of the legendary curse that lingers over their people. The Umbral
Court utilizes these young converts as emissaries and spies.
ravounelian strix
Ravounel hosts the largest population of forest-dwelling strix in the Inner
Sea region. The Kitkasiticka tribe is unique not only for its locale but also for
being strongly involved and allied with the nearby city of Kintargo. Smaller
tribes in Ravounel cling to the country’s northern coast and frequently visit
Kitkasiticka. The forest tribe has begun to connect strix from the north shores
to the Ravounel side of the Menador Mountains.
STRIX HERITAGES
Strix fill a variety of roles in their tight communal groups and have adapted
to provide the most they can for themselves and their community. Choose
one of the following strix heritages at 1st level.
nightgliDer strix
You are a dedicated nocturnal avian, keeping watch and predating in the
most lightless environments. You gain darkvision.
PreDator strix
You come from a line of strix with exceptionally broad wings and
lengthy talons. You gain a talon melee unarmed attack that deals
1d4 slashing damage. Your talon attack is in the brawling
group and has the agile, finesse, and unarmed traits.
scavenger strix
Your ancestors originated from a land where food
was scarce and threats were many. You are trained in
Survival. You gain the Forager skill feat as a bonus feat.
Your thoroughness when gathering food provides you
a +1 circumstance bonus to Survival checks to Subsist.
shoreline strix
You’re the descendant of strix who traveled to the
coasts. Your feathers are especially water-repellent
and sleekly angled for diving, allowing you to catch fish and other prey in
the shallows. You are trained in Athletics, and you gain the Underwater
Marauder skill feat as a bonus skill feat.
songbirD strix
You descend from a talented line of strix storytellers. From the highest
mountains and purest landscapes where your lungs fill with glorious clean
air, you trill, whistle, and croon sweet songs. While natural sounds make you
predisposed to sing, voices make you predisposed to mimicry. You receive
a +1 circumstance bonus on Deception checks to Impersonate a mimicked
voice, where the sound of the voice is the only factor; if you are a master in
Deception, you gain a +2 circumstance bonus instead. You also gain a +1
circumstance bonus on Performance checks to sing; if you are a master in
Performance, you gain a +2 circumstance bonus instead.
Strix Settlements
Strix settlements, called roosts, are
lofty dwellings at the highest point
of the local landscape. Mountains
are a particular favorite, especially
if they provide tall spires that make
foot traffic impossible. Strix living
in forests build their communities
around the largest trees available, and
seaside dwellers prefer to nestle their
dwellings along perilous cliffs.
By far, the largest strix community
resides at Ciricskree, which translates
from the Strix language to “the
Shrieking Spire.” This tribe of over
500 individuals is the cultural
epicenter for the Devil’s Perch and
the entire Avistani strix population.
Additional settlements include the
Ikaraka in the Barrowood forest at
the base of the Menador Mountains,
and the small Blackcove tribe along
the shore, who have established a
tolerant trading relationship with a
nearby fishing village.
ANCESTRY
GUIDE
EXPANDED
ANCESTRIES
AND
HERITAGES
NEW
ANCESTRIES
AND
HERITAGES
ANCESTRAL
GEAR
GLOSSARY
AND INDEX
