13
regularly stroll onto sandy beaches to sunbathe and supplement their seafood
diet with tropical fruits. They typically wear little beyond simple skirts of
seaweed and have a preference for bracelets made of coral and shells. Ozalon
azarketis possess extensive knowledge of the toxins harvestable from sea
creatures; many can also read the weather and use this aptitude to avoid or
prepare for hurricanes and ocean storms.
Ozalons often have the spined, tactile, or thalassic azarketi heritage.
UsenA
Short and broad with mottled blue, brown, or gray skin, Usena azarketis live in
the frigid waters of the Steaming Sea. A thin layer of blubber lays beneath their
tough, rubbery flesh, and a dense crop of short hair grows atop their heads in
place of fins. Usenas wear waterproof, formfitting suits crafted from seal pelts
or sharkskin and typically live in small, submerged homes carved from ice.
During winter, they reside under the sea ice and hunt bears, fish, seals, sea birds,
and walruses. In spring, they work with other families to hunt schools of fish,
sharks, and whales at sea. Each night, Usenas surface to stargaze while sharing
stories and songs. They often worship Desna or the empyreal lords Pulura and
the Black Butterfly.
Usenas typically have the benthic, murkeyed, or tactile azarketi heritage.
AZARKETI HERITAGES
The following heritages are available to azarketis.
inUreD AzArketi
Your ancestors had to survive in polluted water that made every breath
noxious. You gain poison resistance equal to half your level (minimum 1).
Furthermore, you can survive outside of water for 72 hours before you
begin to suffocate.
mUrkeyeD AzArketi
You live in murky waters and have grown accustomed to life in a
low-visibility environment. You need only a successful DC 3 flat
check when targeting a concealed creature and a successful DC 9
flat check when targeting a hidden creature.
spineD AzArketi
Your fins conceal launchable toxic spines. You have a spine
ranged unarmed attack with the unarmed trait that
deals 1d4 poison damage, has a range
increment of 10 feet, and is in the dart
weapon group.
tActile AzArketi
Your skin can detect the slightest changes in ocean currents. You gain
imprecise wavesense (Bestiary 344) with a range of 30 feet, allowing you
to sense motion in the water around you. You also gain a +1 circumstance
bonus to Survival checks to Sense Direction in aquatic environments.
ANCESTRY FEATS
The following ancestry feats are available to azarketis.
1ST LEVEL
ANCESTRAL INSIGHT
FEAT 1
AZARKETI
You have extensive knowledge of your ancestors’ ancient origins. You gain the
trained proficiency rank in Alghollthu Lore and Azlanti Lore. If you roll a critical
Legacy of Azlant
Directly descended from the people of
Azlant, azarketis have preserved their
ancestors’ culture through art, oral
traditions, songs, and stories. Azarketi
scholars study the history of Azlant and
Earthfall, elders recite tales of Azlanti
legends, and musicians sing songs to
long-lost gods. Most azarketis know the
location of the nearest Azlanti ruin, and
many possess a piece of Azlanti jewelry.
ANCESTRY
GUIDE
EXPANDED
ANCESTRIES
AND
HERITAGES
NEW
ANCESTRIES
AND
HERITAGES
ANCESTRAL
GEAR
GLOSSARY
AND INDEX
