67
BeAstkin (rAre heritAge)
While most werecreatures are cursed with bloodlust at
the sight of the full moon, some of their kin are born
without this dire affliction. These beastkin are a source
of respect and envy among their fellows, as they also lack
werecreatures’ burning vulnerability to silver.
Fetchling (Uncommon Ancestry)
Fetchlings are scions of Ancient Azlant who escaped the
cataclysm of Earthfall by fleeing to the Shadow Plane.
As generations passed, more and more supernatural
gloom seeped into these refugees until they evolved into
something beyond their human origins.
FleshwArp (rAre Ancestry)
Fleshwarps are beings transformed either by magic or by
technology beyond Golarion’s ken. Most commonly, they
result from drow or other sinister forces transforming their
victims out of sadism, yet fleshwarps can also be created
from scratch through magical or alchemical manipulation
of raw tissue.
gAnzi (Uncommon heritAge)
Born wherever and whenever they’re least expected, these
scions of chaos rarely conform to any overarching culture
among themselves. Ganzi reside in the greatest numbers
in the nation of Holomog, with their influence spilling out
into Nex, Geb, and the Mwangi Expanse.
geniekin (Uncommon heritAges)
Kin to the elements and infused with the power of the
planes within the Inner Sphere, geniekin live scattered all
over the world, especially wherever extreme environments
provide a conduit to primal energy. Most commonly found
in Katapesh and Qadira, many geniekin gather in small
communities both within and outside of major cities.
kitsUne (Uncommon Ancestry)
Kitsune change shapes as easily as clothing, often
living undetected among other peoples. Though these
mischievous tricksters almost never gather in numbers
large enough for political clout, their natural charisma
and cunning mean they can have a significant impact on
worldly events.
sprite (rAre Ancestry)
As denizens of the First World, sprites sometimes tire
of their realm where choices hold no permanence and
consequences don’t matter. These Tiny fey venture into
the Material Plane in hopes of making their own mark.
strix (rAre Ancestry)
These avian humanoids maintain small populations
within Cheliax and the surrounding environs. Long
persecuted by the humanocentric rule of House Thrune,
strix have been enemies of the Chelaxian state for almost
a century.
ANCESTRY
GUIDE
EXPANDED
ANCESTRIES
AND
HERITAGES
NEW
ANCESTRIES
AND
HERITAGES
ANCESTRAL
GEAR
GLOSSARY
AND INDEX
