143
This product is compliant with the Open Game License (OGL) and is suitable for use with the
Pathfinder Roleplaying Game (Second Edition).
Product Identity: The following items are hereby identified as Product Identity, as defined in the
Open Game License version 1.0a, Section 1(e), and are not Open Game Content: All trademarks,
registered trademarks, proper nouns (characters, deities, locations, etc., as well as all adjectives,
names, titles, and descriptive terms derived from proper nouns), artworks, characters, dialogue,
locations, organizations, plots, storylines, and trade dress. (Elements that have previously been
designated as Open Game Content, or are exclusively derived from previous Open Game Content, or
that are in the public domain are not included in this declaration.)
Open Game Content: Except for material designated as Product Identity, the game mechanics of
this Paizo game product are Open Game Content, as defined in the Open Game License version 1.0a,
Section 1(d). No portion of this work other than the material designated as Open Game Content may
be reproduced in any form without written permission.
Pathfinder Lost Omens Ancestry Guide (Second Edition) © 2021, Paizo Inc. All Rights Reserved.
Paizo, the Paizo golem logo, Pathfinder, the Pathfinder logo, Pathfinder Society, Starfinder, and
the Starfinder logo are registered trademarks of Paizo Inc.; the Pathfinder P logo, Pathfinder
Accessories, Pathfinder Adventure, Pathfinder Adventure Card Game, Pathfinder Adventure
Card Society, Pathfinder Adventure Path, Pathfinder Battles, Pathfinder Combat Pad, Pathfinder
Flip-Mat, Pathfinder Flip-Tiles, Pathfinder Legends, Pathfinder Lost Omens, Pathfinder Pawns,
Pathfinder Roleplaying Game, Starfinder Adventure Path, Starfinder Combat Pad, Starfinder Flip-
Mat, Starfinder Flip-Tiles, Starfinder Pawns, Starfinder Roleplaying Game, and Starfinder Society
are trademarks of Paizo Inc.
Printed in China. It’s not who you are underneath, it’s what you do that defines you.
Open Game License Version 1.0a
The following text is the property of Wizards of the Coast, Inc. and is Copyright 2000 Wizards of the Coast, Inc.
(“Wizards”). All Rights Reserved.
1. Definitions: (a) “Contributors” means the copyright and/or trademark owners who have contributed Open
Game Content; (b) “Derivative Material” means copyrighted material including derivative works and translations
(including into other computer languages), potation, modification, correction, addition, extension, upgrade,
improvement, compilation, abridgment or other form in which an existing work may be recast, transformed
or adapted; (c) “Distribute” means to reproduce, license, rent, lease, sell, broadcast, publicly display, transmit or
otherwise distribute; (d) “Open Game Content” means the game mechanic and includes the methods, procedures,
processes and routines to the extent such content does not embody the Product Identity and is an enhancement
over the prior art and any additional content clearly identified as Open Game Content by the Contributor, and
means any work covered by this License, including translations and derivative works under copyright law, but
specifically excludes Product Identity. (e) “Product Identity” means product and product line names, logos and
identifying marks including trade dress; artifacts, creatures, characters, stories, storylines, plots, thematic elements,
dialogue, incidents, language, artwork, symbols, designs, depictions, likenesses, formats, poses, concepts, themes
and graphic, photographic and other visual or audio representations; names and descriptions of characters, spells,
enchantments, personalities, teams, personas, likenesses and special abilities; places, locations, environments,
creatures, equipment, magical or supernatural abilities or effects, logos, symbols, or graphic designs; and any other
trademark or registered trademark clearly identified as Product identity by the owner of the Product Identity, and
which specifically excludes the Open Game Content; (f) “Trademark” means the logos, names, mark, sign, motto,
designs that are used by a Contributor to identify itself or its products or the associated products contributed to
the Open Game License by the Contributor (g) “Use”, “Used” or “Using” means to use, Distribute, copy, edit, format,
modify, translate and otherwise create Derivative Material of Open Game Content. (h) “You” or “Your” means the
licensee in terms of this agreement.
2. The License: This License applies to any Open Game Content that contains a notice indicating that the Open
Game Content may only be Used under and in terms of this License. You must affix such a notice to any Open
Game Content that you Use. No terms may be added to or subtracted from this License except as described by the
License itself. No other terms or conditions may be applied to any Open Game Content distributed using this License.
3. Offer and Acceptance: By Using the Open Game Content You indicate Your acceptance of the terms of
this License.
4. Grant and Consideration: In consideration for agreeing to use this License, the Contributors grant You a perpetual,
worldwide, royalty-free, non-exclusive license with the exact terms of this License to Use, the Open Game Content.
5. Representation of Authority to Contribute: If You are contributing original material as Open Game Content,
You represent that Your Contributions are Your original creation and/or You have sufficient rights to grant the
rights conveyed by this License.
6. Notice of License Copyright: You must update the COPYRIGHT NOTICE portion of this License to include the
exact text of the COPYRIGHT NOTICE of any Open Game Content You are copying, modifying or distributing, and
You must add the title, the copyright date, and the copyright holder’s name to the COPYRIGHT NOTICE of any
original Open Game Content you Distribute.
7. Use of Product Identity: You agree not to Use any Product Identity, including as an indication as to compatibility,
except as expressly licensed in another, independent Agreement with the owner of each element of that Product
Identity. You agree not to indicate compatibility or co-adaptability with any Trademark or Registered Trademark
in conjunction with a work containing Open Game Content except as expressly licensed in another, independent
Agreement with the owner of such Trademark or Registered Trademark. The use of any Product Identity in
Open Game Content does not constitute a challenge to the ownership of that Product Identity. The owner of any
Product Identity used in Open Game Content shall retain all rights, title and interest in and to that Product Identity.
8. Identification: If you distribute Open Game Content You must clearly indicate which portions of the work
that you are distributing are Open Game Content.
9. Updating the License: Wizards or its designated Agents may publish updated versions of this License. You
may use any authorized version of this License to copy, modify and distribute any Open Game Content originally
distributed under any version of this License.
10. Copy of this License: You MUST include a copy of this License with every copy of the Open Game Content
You distribute.
11. Use of Contributor Credits: You may not market or advertise the Open Game Content using the name of any
Contributor unless You have written permission from the Contributor to do so.
12. Inability to Comply: If it is impossible for You to comply with any of the terms of this License with respect
to some or all of the Open Game Content due to statute, judicial order, or governmental regulation then You may
not Use any Open Game Material so affected.
13. Termination: This License will terminate automatically if You fail to comply with all terms herein and fail to
cure such breach within 30 days of becoming aware of the breach. All sublicenses shall survive the termination
of this License.
14. Reformation: If any provision of this License is held to be unenforceable, such provision shall be reformed
only to the extent necessary to make it enforceable.
15. COPYRIGHT NOTICE
Open Game License v 1.0a © 2000, Wizards of the Coast, Inc.
System Reference Document © 2000, Wizards of the Coast, Inc.; Authors: Jonathan Tweet, Monte Cook, and
Skip Williams, based on material by E. Gary Gygax and Dave Arneson.
The Book of Fiends © 2003, Green Ronin Publishing; Authors: Aaron Loeb, Erik Mona, Chris Pramas, and
Robert J. Schwalb.
Armies of the Abyss © 2002, Green Ronin Publishing; Authors: Erik Mona and Chris Pramas.
The Avatar’s Handbook © 2003, Green Ronin Publishing; Authors: Jesse Decker and Chris Thomasson.
Book of the Righteous © 2002, Aaron Loeb.
Legions of Hell © 2001, Green Ronin Publishing; Author: Chris Pramas.
The Unholy Warrior’s Handbook © 2003, Green Ronin Publishing; Author: Robert J. Schwalb.
Dragon, Faerie from the Tome of Horrors Complete © 2011, Necromancer Games, Inc., published and distributed
by Frog God Games; Author: Scott Greene, based on original material by Gary Gygax.
Genie, Marid from the Tome of Horrors Complete © 2011, Necromancer Games, Inc., published and distributed
by Frog God Games; Author: Scott Greene, based on original material by Gary Gygax.
Grippli from the Tome of Horrors Complete © 2011, Necromancer Games, Inc., published and distributed by Frog
God Games; Author: Scott Greene, based on original material by Gary Gygax.
Pathfinder Core Rulebook (Second Edition) © 2019, Paizo Inc.; Authors: Logan Bonner, Jason Bulmahn, Stephen
Radney-MacFarland, and Mark Seifter.
Pathfinder Lost Omens Ancestry Guide (Second Edition) © 2021, Paizo Inc.; Authors: Calder CaDavid, James
Case, Jessica Catalan, Eleanor Ferron, Lyz Liddell, Luis Loza, Ron Lundeen, Patchen Mortimer, Andrew Mullen,
Samantha Phelan, Jessica Redekop, Mikhail Rekun, David N. Ross, Mark Seifter, Owen K.C. Stephens, Isabelle
Thorne, and Linda Zayas-Palmer.
PAIZO INC.
Creative Directors • James Jacobs and Robert G. McCreary
Director of Game Design • Jason Bulmahn
Director of Visual Design • Sarah E. Robinson
Director of Game Development • Adam Daigle
Organized Play Managing Developer • Linda Zayas-Palmer
Developers • Eleanor Ferron, Jason Keeley, Luis Loza, Ron Lundeen, Patrick Renie, and Jason Tondro
Starfinder Lead Designer • Joe Pasini
Starfinder Senior Developer • John Compton
Starfinder Organized Play Developer • Thurston Hillman
Pathfinder Organized Play Developer • James Case
Organized Play Developer • Jenny Jarzabski
Design Manager • Mark Seifter
Pathfinder Lead Designer • Logan Bonner
Designer • Michael Sayre
Managing Editor • Judy Bauer
Senior Editor • Leo Glass
Editors • Patrick Hurley, Avi Kool, Ianara Natividad, Kieran Newton, and Lu Pellazar
Managing Art Director • Sonja Morris
Art Directors • Kent Hamilton and Adam Vick
Senior Graphic Designer • Emily Crowell
Graphic Designer • Tony Barnett
Director of Brand Strategy • Mark Moreland
Paizo CEO • Lisa Stevens
President • Jeffrey Alvarez
Chief Creative Officer • Erik Mona
Chief Financial Officer • David Reuland
Chief Technical Officer • Vic Wertz
Director of Project Management • Glenn Elliott
Project Coordinator • Lee Rucker
Director of Sales • Pierce Watters
Sales Associate • Cosmo Eisele
Vice President of Marketing & Licensing • Jim Butler
Director of Licensing • John Feil
Public Relations Manager • Aaron Shanks
Social Media Producer • Payton Smith
Customer Service & Community Manager • Sara Marie
Operations Manager • Will Chase
Organized Play Manager • Tonya Woldridge
Organized Play Associate • Alex Speidel
Accountant • William Jorenby
Accounting & AP Specialist • Eric Powell
Finance Operations Specialist • B. Scott Keim
Human Resources Generalist • Devinne Caples
Director of Technology • Raimi Kong
Web Content Manager • Maryssa Lagervall
Senior Software Developer • Gary Teter
Webstore Coordinator • Katina Davis
Customer Service Team • Rian Davenport, Keith Greer, Logan Harper, Joan Hong, Samantha
Phelan, Calliope Taylor, and Diego Valdez
Warehouse Team • Mika Hawkins, Heather Payne, Jeff Strand, and Kevin Underwood
Website Team • Brian Bauman, Robert Brandenburg, Whitney Chatterjee, Erik Keith, Levi
Steadman, Josh Thornton, and Andrew White
Ulfen A human ethnicity common in the northern reaches of Avistan.
Character Guide 9
undine* A type of geniekin descended from a being from the Plane
of Water. 116–119
Urgathoa Neutral evil goddess of disease, gluttony, and undeath.
Known as the Pallid Princess. Gods & Magic 48–49
Urgir Unofficial capital of the Hold of Belkzen.
Ustalav A nation located in northern central Avistan that’s threatened
by countless terrors living and undead. World Guide 45
Vahird An ethnicity of monastic dwarves that live in the Eternal
Oasis of Rahadoum. Character Guide 18
Varisia A region in northwestern Avistan, known as a frontier land and
home to ancient Thassilonian ruins. World Guide 116–117
Varisian A human ethnicity common throughout Avistan, particularly
in and around Ustalav and Varisia. Character Guide 9
Varki A human ethnicity related to the Erutaki that live along the
mountains of northern Avistan. Character Guide 10
Verduran Forest A large forest in southeast Avistan, nestled between
Andoran, Galt, and Taldor. World Guide 129
Vidrian A young nation along the western coast of Garund. Formerly
called Sargava, its inhabitants recently overthrew their oppressive
government. World Guide 91–92
Vourinoi A major elven ethnic group that live primarily in Osirion and
the surrounding regions. Character Guide 25
Vudra This vast peninsula in southeastern Casmaron is home to the
Vudrani people. World Guide 7, Pathfinder Adventure Path #158
66–73
Vudrani A common human ethnicity in Vudra, Jalmeray, and the
surrounding regions. Character Guide 9
weapons* 138–139
Whispering Tyrant Another name for the lich Tar-Baphon. Legends
104–105, World Guide 14, 38
Worldwound An enormous rift that opened in the nation of Sarkoris,
allowing the demonic hordes of the Abyss to spill forth and destroy
the region until closed by heroes. Its demon-blighted surroundings
are now known as the Sarkoris Scar. World Guide 26, 32–33
Zon-Kuthon Lawful evil god of darkness, envy, loss, and pain. Known
as the Midnight Lord. Gods & Magic 50–51
ANCESTRY
GUIDE
EXPANDED
ANCESTRIES
AND
HERITAGES
NEW
ANCESTRIES
AND
HERITAGES
ANCESTRAL
GEAR
GLOSSARY
AND INDEX
