Fleshwarps (Rare)
Fleshwarps are people whose forms were created or radically transformed by magic,
alchemy, or unnatural energies. Their unorthodox appearance can make it difficult for
them to find a place for themselves in the world.
Fleshwarp (Rare)
88
Magic and science that can warp bone and twist
sinew are all too common on Golarion. Fleshwarps
are those who have been permanently altered by such
methods—sometimes a sapient being created whole
cloth from inanimate flesh, but often a victim unwillingly
transformed by strange energies or sadistic creators.
The ancestry name “fleshwarp” is an umbrella term,
since on Golarion the actual fleshwarping process is more
infamously well-known than are alterations caused by
uncontrolled magic, technology, or fringe science. Whether
practiced by Thassilonian wizards, Nexian fleshcrafters,
or the drow of the Darklands, fleshwarping is the craft of
reshaping flesh and mind in vats of foul magical reagents.
This has led some scholars of monsters to argue that only
those beings created by traditional fleshwarping should be
considered fleshwarps. Regardless of the source of their
altered forms, fleshwarps bear their new shape forever,
transformed beings living a wild and strange existence
beyond what was possible for their original ancestry.
Although fleshwarps are humanoid, no two look the
same. One might possess limbs in unusual places and
skin as smooth as glass, while another might have a
thick matting of spiny fur. Some might have animalistic
features, like a boar snout, scales, or cloven hooves.
Others have entirely alien appearances, such as bulging
eyes on the backs of their hands. Some may have only
subtly uncanny features that differentiate them, such
as glowing teeth, smoking eyes, or fingernails made of
bone. The only commonality among fleshwarps is their
mismatched nature. Let your imagination run wild when
creating a fleshwarp character!
If you want a character who is tough and hardy, can
change their form as they grow, and can use their wholly
unique appearance to inspire awe or fear in others, you
should play a fleshwarp.
you might...
• Embrace your unusual appearance to inspire respect
or fear.
• Be used to relying on yourself.
• Distrust large groups of people, particularly
mobs, based on past experiences.
others Probably...
• Find your physiology fascinating or terrifying.
• Assume you are an expert on strange creatures or
occult phenomena.
• Consider you an enigmatic and unpredictable—and
perhaps even dangerous—outsider.
