14
failure on an Alghollthu Lore or Azlanti Lore check to Recall Knowledge, you get a
failure instead.
HYDRAULIC DEFLECTION [one-action]
FEAT 1
ABJURATION
AZARKETI
CONCENTRATE
PRIMAL
WATER
Drawing moisture from the atmosphere, you create a disc of hovering water that deflects
attacks. You gain a +1 circumstance bonus to AC until the start of your next turn.
PELAGIC APTITUDE
FEAT 1
AZARKETI
You’ve learned special tricks to survive underwater. You gain the trained proficiency
rank in Survival. When in an aquatic environment, if you roll a critical failure on a
Survival skill check to Sense Direction or Subsist, you get a failure instead.
STRIKING RETRIBUTION
FEAT 1
AZARKETI
You have an appropriately intense hatred for alghollthus. You gain a +2 circumstance
bonus to damage with weapons and unarmed attacks against creatures from the
alghollthu family and those that serve alghollthus (the GM determines which
creatures serve an alghollthu). In addition, if an alghollthu successfully affects
you or one of your allies within 60 feet with an enchantment, your circumstance
bonus to damage against that alghollthu increases to +4 for 1 minute.
5TH LEVEL
AQUATIC CONVERSATIONALIST
FEAT 5
AZARKETI
You can ask questions of, receive answers from, and use the Diplomacy
skill with animals with the amphibious or aquatic traits. You gain a +1
circumstance bonus to Make an Impression on such animals.
MARINE ALLY
FEAT 5
AZARKETI
You’ve befriended a sea creature, which becomes magically bonded to
you. You gain a familiar. The type of creature is up to you, but one of its
abilities must always be a swim Speed or the amphibious familiar ability.
WATER CONJURATION
FEAT 5
AZARKETI
You carry the ocean with you wherever you go. You can cast create water
as a primal innate spell once per day. Each time you cast create water, you
choose if you create fresh water or salt water.
9TH LEVEL
AZARKETI PURIFICATION
FEAT 9
AZARKETI
You can cast purify food and drink as a primal innate spell, but only on liquids.
You can cast this spell once every 10 minutes. You can also use your innate
purify food and drink on a touched creature instead of a liquid to purify their
blood, giving that creature a +2 status bonus for 1 minute on their ongoing
saves against poisons already present in their body when you cast the spell.
WATER DANCER
 FEAT 9
AZARKETI
You glide through the water with graceful ease. When in an aquatic or swamp
environment, you ignore the effects of non-magical difficult terrain. In addition,
swimming up or down isn’t difficult terrain for you.
Other Sea Creatures
Azarketis are one of many ancestries to
live beneath the water’s surface. They
have the most contact with locathahs,
humanoid fish-folk with an easygoing,
friendly demeanor. Azarketis find
merfolk territorial neighbors, though
their shared private tendencies lead
to mostly amicable relations. Together
they combat their shared enemies, the
monstrous but intelligent sahuagins.
