7
lesHy (Uncomon Ancestry)
Leshys are immortal spirits temporarily given mortal
forms in bodies made of plants and fungi. Created by
powerful primal rituals, leshys come into the world fully
formed and self-sufficient, independent of any settlement
or even the ritualist that gave them form. This book
contains numerous new heritages to represent various
types of leshy. For information on playing a leshy, see
pages 52–55 of the Character Guide.
lizArDfolk (Uncomon Ancestry)
The powerful reptilian lizardfolk call themselves iruxi
and have a history that stretches back thousands of
years. Patient and confident, lizardfolk explorers travel
from their ancient nations to explore the world of
younger ancestries and kingdoms. This book contains
options for lizardfolk to gain insights from astrology
or power from the bones of their ancestors. For
information on playing a lizardfolk, see pages 56–59 of
the Character Guide.
orc (Uncomon Ancestry)
Orcs were driven from their homelands by the dwarven
Quest for Sky and thrust into a foreign world where they
had to carve a place for themselves. A troubled history
of warfare and grudges has left most orcs at odds with
other surface ancestries. This book contains options
for orcs to gain power from special painted warmasks.
For information on playing an orc, see pages 16–19 of
the Advanced Player’s Guide.
rAtfolk (Uncomon Ancestry)
Small rodentlike humanoids, ratfolk are clever, adaptive,
and communalist. Known amongst themselves as ysoki,
ratfolk are natural explorers, travelers, and, most of
all, merchants. This book contains options for ratfolk
to squish, sneak, roll, and otherwise move about. For
information on playing a ratfolk, see pages 20–23 of the
Advanced Player’s Guide.
tengU (Uncomon Ancestry)
The beaked and feathered tengu originate from Tian Xia.
Nearly always in the minority, tengu have learned to use
their knack for languages and blades to find space for
themselves. This book contains options for tengu to store
magic in specially made fans. For information on playing
a tengu, see pages 24–27 of the Advanced Player’s Guide.
tiefling (Uncomon HeritAge)
Tieflings are planar scions born with a fiendish stain
in their blood. Though tieflings are not inherently evil,
they are often mistrusted and many do find that fiendish
powers and associated temptations come easily. This
book presents new lineages for tieflings descended from
various types of fiends. For information on playing a
tiefling, see pages 39–41 of the Advanced Player’s Guide.
ANCESTRY
GUIDE
EXPANDED
ANCESTRIES
AND
HERITAGES
NEW
ANCESTRIES
AND
HERITAGES
ANCESTRAL
GEAR
GLOSSARY
AND INDEX
