Ifrits descend from creatures such as efreet, salamanders, and magma dragons. Their
spark of ancestral flame gives them a reputation for being passionate, if not capricious.
Ifrit
100
100
Ifrits often build up personal relationships between
themselves and the idea of fire, feeling as though
they embody it mentally or spiritually, in addition to
physically. Some ifrits relate to fire’s mutable energy,
illuminating properties, or destructive nature.
Some ifrits share a connection from birth to specific
aspects of elemental fire, such as radiance, ash, or
lava; this is called an ifrit lineage. Ifrits often have the
same lineage as their parents, though sometimes ifrits
are born with lineages different from their families,
or to parents without one. Lineages can appear in ifrit
children as a reflection of where they were born—for
example, cindersoul ifrits sometimes originate from
being born in areas prone to forest fires. They can also
occur as a reflection of the ifrit’s planar ancestry, such as
a brightsoul ifrit having a fire-themed celestial ancestor
like a peri. Magma ifrits with the lavasoul lineage are
most often born the descendants of magma dragons or
other lava-themed fire elementals.
you might...
• Relate your personal identity to elemental fire
and believe fire represents core aspects of your
personality.
• Always keep yourself moving and busy, traveling
to new places or trying new things, for fear that
slowing down may dim your inner fire.
• Take great pride in your elemental lineage, especially
if you believe you are related to the mighty efreeti
nobles, the maliks.
others Probably...
• Look to you as an authority on fire magic or the
elemental planes.
• Think of you as a never-ending well of passion and
inspiration, with an inner spark that never dies.
• Assume you must be hot-headed and reckless, acting
before you think.
Physical DescriPtion
Just as their elemental origins can vary, so too can ifrits’
otherworldly appearances. Red, orange, and brass are all
common skin colors, while others have charcoal-gray,
ash-brown, or radiant white, yellow, or blue hues. Ifrit
hair often falls in untamable coils of flame that grow over
the ifrit’s lifespan. Salamander-descended ifrits can have
lizard-like scales, while those descended from efreeti may
have huge, red horns curling up from their skulls.
Many ifrits keep their skin uncovered and open to the
air, favoring loose or breathable clothes made in light
fabrics like silk and chiffon. Their styles often feature
bright colors and bold patterns paired with
metallic jewelry.
society
Ifrits are typically born into societies built by
others, where they comprise minority populations.
Most ifrits place a high value on their freedom, and
though they might live within societies and cultures
dominated by humans, elves, or dwarves, many carve
out peaceful, productive, and fulfilling places for
themselves. Because most ifrits aren’t bothered by high
temperatures, many gravitate toward workplaces that
get uncomfortably hot for other mortals, like forges.
alignment anD religion
Ifrits are fiercely independent, sometimes valuing their
personal freedoms above those of others around them.
Though frequently accused of lacking morals by their
