33
opraK
Hobgoblins’ regimented lifestyle has found new applications in Oprak,
the hobgoblin nation founded by General Azaersi, nestled in the Mindspin
Mountains. To solidify themselves as an independent nation, the hobgoblins
of Oprak have shifted their focus from warfare to economics; entire squads
of hobgoblins now dedicate themselves to specific trades such as alchemy,
farming, mining, or smithing. Their military training colors these pursuits—
expert crafters in Oprak drive their apprentices with the same brutality that
lieutenants use with their soldiers. An intense dedication to commerce and the
creation of magical roads through the Plane of Earth have enabled Oprak to
become an economic powerhouse in just a few years. In addition to trade,
General Azaersi has pushed for a strong focus on diplomatic skills among
her highest-ranking officers. These officers drill tirelessly on their manners,
knowledge of local customs, and overall charm, receiving severe discipline
when they offend without permission or give in to an urge for retribution.
Oprak hobgoblins tend to have the elfbane, runtboss, smokeworker, or
warmarch hobgoblin heritage.
raKh lo
Deep beneath the surface of Golarion lie the Darklands, a vast network of
caverns and tunnels that sprawls beneath multiple continents. Hundreds of
settlements dot the seemingly endless span of the Darklands, and among them,
below the continent of Tian Xia, is the fabled hobgoblin city of Rakh Lo. It
was long considered no more than a legend to hobgoblins on the surface
until Oprakan delvers, while using the power of the Onyx Key to travel to
Kaoling, accidentally discovered this vast city built into the stone.
The hobgoblins of Rakh Lo have a flourishing civilization, thanks in
no small part to the rigidity of their lifestyle. This structure assigns each
hobgoblin a role in support of the city. Some hobgoblins act as food gatherers,
some use their skills to mine for valuable resources, and others use their
combat skills to defend the city. Hobgoblins in Rakh Lo have adapted to
the harsher nature of the Darklands, riding massive bats and centipedes,
using unique alchemical concoctions to sustain their crops, and relying
heavily on each other for support. They have learned to share what
knowledge and resources they have with others to improve everyone’s
chance at survival in the merciless Darklands. These hobgoblins are eager
to learn what they can from others but are also willing to commit brutal acts
to defend themselves or those they trust.
Rakh Lo hobgoblins tend to have the shortshanks, steelskin, or
warrenbred hobgoblin heritage.
HOBGOBLIN HERITAGES
The following heritages are available to hobgoblins.
ShortShanKS hoBgoBlin
You have a longer torso and broader shoulders than most hobgoblins,
making your legs seem short by comparison. This gives you a strong,
muscular core and lowers your center of gravity—features that assist
you in riding and climbing—and you’ve trained at riding in a saddle
from an extremely early age. You gain the Ride feat. Additionally, you
are not flat-footed while you Climb.
SteelSKin hoBgoBlin
When you are cut or burned, your body responds by forming tough
but flexible callouses over the site of the injury. Over time, this makes
the most vulnerable sections of your body harder and more resistant to
damage. Many steelskin hobgoblins intentionally use blades and flame
to scar themselves in intricate patterns, though this isn’t universal. Your flat
Cantorian Spring
In days long past, Cantorys, goddess
of life, transformations, and forests,
created a staff called the Cantorian
Spring and placed it on Golarion for
fledgling mortals to find. A powerful
devil named Canzoriant learned of the
staff and slew Cantorys, claiming it for
himself. Using the Cantorian Spring’s
power, Canzoriant transformed early
goblins into the more powerful and
calculating hobgoblins, instilling in
them a deep hatred for elves. After a
failed attempt by elves to claim the
staff, the Cantorian Spring disappeared
and hasn’t been seen since.
ANCESTRY
GUIDE
EXPANDED
ANCESTRIES
AND
HERITAGES
NEW
ANCESTRIES
AND
HERITAGES
ANCESTRAL
GEAR
GLOSSARY
AND INDEX
