54
OthEr EthnicitiEs
Ratfolk have spread across the Grass Sea of Casmaron, particularly in Ular
Kel, where Sarki Tunnelers have established a large presence in (and under) the
districts devoted to trade, learning, and monstrous residents. Vudra has at least
three distinct ysoki lines—one of which, the Vradji Gnashers, produces some of
the best acrobats in the world. In southern Tian Xia, Minatan Skimmers spend so
long afloat their barge cities that many have never set a paw on dry land.
RATFOLK HERITAGES
Ratfolk prosper in nearly any Golarion environment—and even on other worlds.
The following heritages are available to ratfolk.
snOW rat
You have a thicker coat and bulkier frame to defend against the cold, granting
you cold resistance equal to half your level (minimum 1). You treat environmental
cold effects as if they were one step less extreme (incredible cold becomes extreme,
extreme cold becomes severe, and so on).
tunnEl rat
Your incredibly small bones allow you to easily compress your body and squeeze
through gaps. You gain the Quick Squeeze feat as a bonus feat, even if you aren’t
trained in Acrobatics. Tight spaces not tight enough to require the Squeeze action
aren’t difficult terrain for you.
RATFOLK ANCESTRY
FEATS
The following ancestry feats are available to ratfolk.
1ST LEVEL
SKULL CREEPER
FEAT 1
RATFOLK
You wear skulls to demoralize foes. You become trained in Intimidation and
gain the Intimidating Glare skill feat. If you’re already trained in Intimidation, you
instead become trained in a skill of your choice. If you pay 50 gp for a splendid skull
mask, the mask grants you a +1 item bonus to Intimidation; its usage is worn (mask).
WARREN FRIEND
FEAT 1
DOWNTIME
RATFOLK
You’re adept at making contact with other ysoki. When you arrive at a new settlement,
you automatically find the nearest ratfolk enclave by spending 1 day of downtime
searching, provided one exists and its members aren’t actively hiding from you. Once
you’ve made contact, you gain a +1 circumstance bonus to
Gather Information and Earn Income in the settlement.
5TH LEVEL
CORNERED FURY
FEAT 5
RATFOLK
When physically outmatched, you fight with
unexpected ferocity. If a foe of a larger
size than you critically hits and
damages you, that foe is flat-footed
to you for 1 round.
GNAW [three-actions]
FEAT 5
RATFOLK
Prerequisites Vicious Incisors (Advanced Player’s Guide 22)
Second Ticker
Five centuries ago, the sorceress Hao
Jin (Lost Omens Legends 46) thwarted a
ratfolk surface invasion by transporting
the ratfolk’s Darklands province to
her private demiplane. The demiplane
recently collapsed, returning the
sphere (now called Round Mountain)
to its former site—thankfully just after
Pathfinder agents had evacuated the
area (then known as Broken Ticker).
At first, the ysoki’s delight at their
reunification smoothed over the
upheaval caused by Round Mountain’s
return. However, the event diverted
nearby rivers and trade routes and
caused many Broken Ticker ratfolk to
lose their homes; the Round Mountain
ysoki must now readjust to a world
that forgot them; and Hao Jin is
reluctant to arbitrate. The united realm
of Second Ticker has thus become a
powder keg, with only the threat of
a nearby army of clockwork soldiers
keeping it from exploding.
