Beastkin
78
Beastkin is a blanket term for any person who has gained
the ability to partially or fully transform into an animal
through any number of means, while maintaining a
balance with their humanoid side. Most beastkin are
born of werecreatures or have a werecreature ancestor in
their lineage. The curse might not always fully manifest
in the child of the werecreature pairing, giving the child
the transformative nature of their lineage without a
weakness to silver or a loss of control during the full
moon. Born or made, werecreatures usually hold such
beastkin in high regard, as they embody many of their
strengths without any of their weaknesses.
Aside from werecreatures, there are various other
paths to becoming a beastkin. In some cases, a deity or
a nature spirit may grant a chosen individual the power
to transform. Others have gained the powers of beastkin
through a trick of the fey or an unusual reaction to
polymorph magic. There are even rumors that some rare
beastkin might be shapeshifting animals that somehow
gained the form of a sapient ancestry, rather than the
other way around.
If you want a character that treads the boundaries
between rationality and instinct, at home in both society
and the wilds yet set apart from both, you should play
a beastkin.
yoU might...
• Prefer the companionship of a close group of friends.
• Feel an attachment to your inherent animal and
seek that animal out to understand them better.
• Wrestle with your animalistic side and choose
to isolate yourself from those who may not
understand your unique nature.
others proBABly...
• Believe you practice primal magic or have a direct
connection to the natural world.
• Assume that you love animals, especially those of
the same kind as your inherent animal.
• Worry that you will lose yourself to your feral
instincts and attack others.
physicAl description
Beastkin come in all shapes and sizes due to the countless
combinations of ancestry and inherent animal. Most
beastkin resemble a typical member of their base ancestry
so closely that they are indistinguishable as a beastkin
when in their humanoid form. On rare occasions, a
beastkin is born with features that belie their animalistic
nature at all times.
A beastkin’s nature is more obvious when they are
transformed into their hybrid shape, their features shifting
to resemble the animal to which they are connected. The
manifestation of these features varies from beastkin
to beastkin, but typically, their teeth become more
Beastkin have extraordinary abilities derived from the animal world, allowing them to
partially or fully transform into animals, granting them deadly fangs, refined senses, and other
such traits. A beastkin treads the line between nature and society, living with a foot in each.
