129
Riding PCs
As a Tiny creature, a sprite PC weighs
so little and takes up so little Bulk that
it doesn’t cause issues to hitch a ride
in a sack, shoulder, or other position
on another PC. However, the amount
of coordination required to ensure
you don’t get in each other’s way or
jostle each other into losing actions
makes this tactic unfavorable for most
fellow adventurers during combat. If
you’re riding along with another PC or
similar non-minion intelligent creature,
roll both your initiatives and use the
lower of the two results. You act in
either order on the same initiative
count. While traveling in this way,
you each gain two actions at the start
of your turn, instead of three, since
they spend one action keeping you
balanced on their back, and you spend
one action maintaining your grip.
pointed ears. Their closer size to other ancestries means they are somewhat
more likely to be taken seriously by mortals.
SPRITE HERITAGES
Sprite heritages have wide variations in appearance and are considered by
some mortal scholars to be different “creatures,” a taxonomy that sprites
find adorably naive. Choose one of the following sprite heritages at 1st level.
Draxie
You are kin to faerie dragons, tracing your heritage back to the death of the
mightiest faerie dragon in the First World. You gain touch telepathy, allowing
you to communicate silently and purely mentally with any creature you’re
touching, as long as you share a language.
grig
You have the hindquarters of a cricket and adore art and music. Your cricket
legs grant you a +2 circumstance bonus on Athletics checks to High Jump or
Long Jump, and you gain ghost sound as a primal innate cantrip.
luMinous sPrite
You glow with magical luminance. You naturally shed light as a torch; this light
has the evocation, light, and primal traits. You can extinguish, rekindle, or change
the color of this light using a single action, which has the concentrate trait.
Melixie
You have the features of a bee, butterfly, or other insect that loves sweets. You
can ask questions of and receive answers from
arthropods (insects, spiders, scorpions, crabs,
and similar invertebrate animals), as well as use
Diplomacy to Make an Impression on and Request
things of them. Most bees, butterflies, moths, and
beetles have an indifferent or friendly starting attitude
toward you and give you time to make your case, though
other arthropods react to you like any other adventurer.
nYktera
You have batlike features, an affinity for batkind, and hearing
that is second to none. As long as you can hear normally, you
can use the Seek action to sense undetected creatures in a 60-foot
cone instead of a 30-foot cone. You also gain a +2 circumstance
bonus to locate undetected creatures that you could hear within 30
feet with a Seek action.
Pixie
You are larger than other sprites. Instead of Tiny, your size is Small.
SPRITE ANCESTRY FEATS
At 1st level, you gain one ancestry feat, and you gain an additional
ancestry feat every 4 levels thereafter (at 5th, 9th, 13th, and 17th
levels). As a sprite, you select from among the following ancestry feats.
1ST LEVEL
CORGI MOUNT
FEAT 1
SPRITE
The smallest of fey have ridden corgis as mounts since time immemorial, leading
to a pattern on corgis’ backs called a “faerie saddle.” You have formed a magical
connection with a corgi that can serve as your mount. Your corgi familiar is Small
ANCESTRY
GUIDE
EXPANDED
ANCESTRIES
AND
HERITAGES
NEW
ANCESTRIES
AND
HERITAGES
ANCESTRAL
GEAR
GLOSSARY
AND INDEX
