105
105
Oread Adventurers
Oread adventurers usually come
from artisan, herbalist, and miner
backgrounds. Many oreads work with
their hands as craftspeople, creating
their work out of stone, metal, gems, or
other forms of their ancestral element.
Oread clerics tend to worship one of
the Elemental Lords of Earth (Ayrzul
or the still-imprisoned Sairazul) or the
dwarven god Torag, or follow the path
of the Green Faith. Druid and ranger
oreads are common, with most druid
oreads following the stone order.
their circle. The most common alignments among oreads are true neutral and
lawful neutral, with the rest typically falling into other neutral alignments like
neutral good or neutral evil.
Religious oreads find that lives of silence, contemplation, or seclusion suit
them well, and most dedicate themselves to the worship of earth and nature
deities like Torag, Ashukharma—the Vudran deity of canyons and cliffs—or
one of the Elemental Lords of Earth, Sairazul and Ayrzul. The nature-focused
philosophy of the Green Faith also appeals to many oreads, especially those
who become druids of the stone order. An oread’s contemplative nature also
aligns well with the teachings of Irori and Gruhastha.
OREADS OF THE INNER SEA
Oreads of all ancestries are most numerous in Jalmeray, Qadira, and the
Darklands, though they can be born among any ancestry anywhere in the
Inner Sea region. Like all geniekin, oread births are mostly concentrated
around geographical anomalies linked to their element, like the Emerald
Spire in the River Kingdoms (which reaches all the way down to an ancient
Orvian vault), the Crystal Womb in the Darklands, and Crystalrock in the
Mindspin Mountains.
Oreads are the most common geniekin among dwarf populations, especially
among the Grondaksen: underground dwarves who live deep among the stones.
The greatest concentration of gemsoul oreads live in the Darklands near
the Crystal Womb, which has the power to transform creatures into
oreads and is believed to contain a portal to the Plane of Earth.
Holtaksen (or mountain dwarves) living in the Mindspin
Mountains above the site also feel its planar influence, as
well as the influence of Crystalrock, near the dwarven Sky
Citadel of Janderhoff. These oread dwarves often grow
crystals from their faces instead of beards and have sharp,
squared features. They sometimes chisel traditional dwarven
patterns into their bodies as a form of stone tattooing.
Among elf ethnicities, oread Mualijae in the jungles of the
Mwangi Expanse tend to have long brown hair made of nutrient-rich
soil, able to support small plants like flowering ivy, and skin like the
bark of jungle trees.
Oread gnomes reflect the strange, oversaturated lushness of the earth
from the First World, sometimes presenting stone or sediment in colors
never seen on the Material Plane.
With earthen features that grow, change, and fall off more often than
other oreads, oread goblins track dirt wherever they go. Those with
crystalline features often make art from their shed crystals to give to
those most important to them.
Jaric halflings living in the Barrier Wall mountains of northern Garund
host a large oread population, with some groups that are entirely oread,
making the Jarics among the only groups with wholly oread communities
on Golarion. Oread Jaric halflings often have rocky fingertips or nails and
veins of metal on the tops of their feet.
Few oread humans look alike, with their bodies incorporating their
earthen features in extremely diverse ways.
OREAD HERITAGE (UNCOMMON)
An earth elemental ancestor has influenced your bloodline, and your features
highlight this elemental planar connection. You might have a crystalline
or metallic sheen to your skin or hair, rough and stony flesh, or glittering
gemstone eyes. You gain the oread trait, in addition to the traits from your
ancestry. You also gain low-light vision, or you gain darkvision if your
ancestry already has low-light vision. You can choose from oread feats and
feats from your ancestry whenever you gain an ancestry feat.
ANCESTRY
GUIDE
EXPANDED
ANCESTRIES
AND
HERITAGES
NEW
ANCESTRIES
AND
HERITAGES
ANCESTRAL
GEAR
GLOSSARY
AND INDEX
