72
by 1 against a virulent poison. Each critical success you achieve against an ongoing
poison reduces its stage by 3, or by 2 against a virulent poison.
EMOTIONLESS
FEAT 1
ANDROID
Your malfunctioning emotional processors make it difficult for you to feel strong
emotions. You gain a +1 circumstance bonus to saving throws against emotion and
fear effects. If you roll a success on a saving throw against an emotion or fear effect,
you get a critical success instead.
INTERNAL COMPARTMENT
FEAT 1
ANDROID
You can hide a small object of up to light Bulk inside a hollow cavity on one of your
forearms. It takes three Interact actions to store an object in this way. You gain a +4
circumstance bonus to the DCs of checks for others to Seek or Steal objects stored
inside your arm. If you store a weapon in your arm, you can use a single action to
Interact to draw the weapon into the hand corresponding to your internal cavity,
then Strike with the weapon.
NANITE SURGE [reaction]
FEAT 1
ANDROID
CONCENTRATE
Frequency once per hour
Trigger You attempt a skill check requiring three actions or fewer.
You stimulate your nanites, forcing your body to temporarily increase its efficiency.
You gain a +2 status bonus to the triggering skill check. In addition, your circuitry
glows, lighting a 10-foot emanation with dim light for 1 round.
NIGHTVISION ADAPTATION
FEAT 1
ANDROID
The nanites in your ocular processors have adapted to darkness, enhancing your
ability to see in the dark. You gain darkvision.
PROXIMITY ALERT
FEAT 1
ANDROID
You’re unnaturally in tune with your surroundings and react
instinctively to danger. You gain a +2 circumstance bonus to
Perception checks made as initiative rolls.
RADIANT CIRCUITRY [one-action]
FEAT 1
ANDROID
CONCENTRATE
LIGHT
Your biological circuitry emits light like a torch, casting bright light in a 20-foot
radius (and dim light for the next 20 feet). The light shuts off when you take this
action again or are knocked unconscious.
5TH LEVEL
ADVANCED TARGETING SYSTEM
FEAT 5
ANDROID
Your ocular processors are augmented with advanced targeting systems, which
allow you to more easily pinpoint your enemy and read their movements. You can
cast true strike once per day as a 1st-level arcane innate spell.
INOCULATION SUBROUTINE
FEAT 5
ANDROID
Your nanites reject diseases with ease. Each time you succeed at a Fortitude save
against an ongoing disease, you reduce its stage by 2, or by 1 against a virulent
disease. Each critical success you achieve against an ongoing disease reduces its
stage by 3, or by 2 against a virulent disease.
Casandalee and Androids
Once an artificial intelligence cloned
from the mind of an alien android,
Casandalee recently ascended as the
goddess of artificial life, free thinking,
and intellectual apotheosis. Despite the
small size and relative obscurity of her
religion, the androids of Numeria have
embraced Casandalee as their own.
They seek to better bridge the gap
between artificial and organic lifeforms,
thereby improving the lives of androids.
