paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
21551735
21551735
21551735
35 30
435730
435730
Introduction
The
Archivist’s
Training
Manual
The Stolen
Casefiles
Cryptids
Secret
Societies
Deviant
Abilities
Mirrors and
Imposters
Cults
Curses and
Pacts
Temporal
Anomalies
Temporal
Spells
Time Mage
Archetype
Chronoskimmer
Archetype
Time Oracle
Mystery
Tomorrow’s
Feast
Mindscapes
Spell &
Item Lists,
Glossary &
Index
Dark
Archive
Trained Skill Occultism
Granted Cantrip time sense (page 183)
Revelation Spells initial: temporal distortion; advanced: time
skip; greater: manifold lives
Related Domains fate, time (Pathfinder Lost Omens Gods & Magic)
CURSE OF TURBULENT MOMENTS
Time passes differently for you than everyone else. You
experience fluxes that might manifest as minor day-to-day
changes in your apparent age, such as a gray lock of hair or
a disappearing wrinkle, or as occasional ghostly temporal
afterimages that slightly trail your movement.
Minor Curse As you draw upon your mystery, time’s passage
becomes more disjointed, aging, regressing, or warping you
out of sync. You become enfeebled 1. In addition, you take
a –2 penalty to saving throws against effects that would
make you fatigued or slowed.
Moderate Curse Time distorts further, increasing your
muscular atrophy, age regression, or warping while making
effects pass you by at an increased rate. The value of your
enfeebled condition increases to 2 and the penalty from
your minor curse increases to –3. Your status bonus to AC
against attacks made against you from reactions or free
actions while you’re moving increases to +2. In addition,
spells affecting you last less time; their duration is reduced
by half, to a minimum of 1 round. This doesn’t reduce the
spell’s duration for other targets affected by the same spell.
Finally, all non-permanent conditions affecting you that
have a duration measured in rounds, minutes, or hours have
their duration reduced by half, to a minimum of 1 round.
Any afflictions (such as poisons, diseases, and curses)
affecting you have their maximum duration, onset time,
and time for each stage reduced by half. Spells, conditions,
and afflictions that last “until your next daily preparations”
last for 12 hours or until your next daily preparations,
whichever comes first. This doesn’t change the duration
you’re temporarily immune, the rate at which you can use
abilities that have a frequency, or any other features based
on the passage of time.
Major Curse (11th) You become so out of sync with time that
it’s hard for you to act, but when you do act, you do so
with incredible speed. You become slowed 1, the value of
your enfeebled condition increases to 3, and the penalty
from your minor curse increases to –4. Time passes so
much faster for you that your steps appear as a blur of
motion to others. You gain a +4 status bonus to initiative
rolls. Whenever you move, you’re concealed while you’re
moving and until the start of your next turn. As normal for
concealment where your location is still obvious, you can’t
use this concealment to Hide or Sneak. Your status bonus to
AC against attacks made against you from reactions or free
actions while you’re moving increases to +4.
REVELATION SPELLS
The following revelation spells are associated with the
time mystery.
TEMPORAL DISTORTION
FOCUS 1
UNCOMMON
CURSEBOUND
ORACLE
TRANSMUTATION
Mystery time
Cast [one-action] somatic, verbal
Range 30 feet; Targets 1 creature
Saving Throw Will
You share some of your own temporal distortions with a
foe, altering their mind and body unpredictably as they’re
thrown backward or forward in time. Roll 1d4. On a 1, the
foe becomes clumsy; on a 2, it becomes enfeebled; on
a 3, it becomes stupefied; and on a 4, you choose which
condition applies.
Success The creature is unaffected.
Failure The creature is either clumsy 1, enfeebled 1, or
stupefied 1 for 4 rounds, depending on the result of the d4.
Critical Failure As failure, but the time warp is stronger,
increasing the condition’s effects but making it run its
course faster. The condition’s value is 3, and the condition
lasts for 2 rounds.
TIME SKIP
FOCUS 3
UNCOMMON
CURSEBOUND
ORACLE
TRANSMUTATION
Mystery time
Cast [one-action] somatic
Range 30 feet; Targets 1 willing creature other than yourself
Duration 1 round
You manipulate time around your ally, pushing them forward a
few moments in time. The target is quickened on its next turn
and can use the action only to Step, Stride, or Strike.
Heightened (+1) You can one additional willing creature other
than yourself within range.
MANIFOLD LIVES
FOCUS 6
UNCOMMON
CURSEBOUND
DIVINATION
EMOTION
MENTAL
ORACLE
Mystery time
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal
Range 30 feet; Targets 1 creature
Saving Throw Will; Duration varies
You cast a creature’s mind back through time, forcing them
to take other paths and make other choices, experiencing
countless alternate lives in an instant. The creature
becomes overwhelmed with regret over paths untraveled,
lives unlived, and times unrealized. The creature takes 6d6
mental damage and must attempt a Will save. After the
effect is resolved, the target is then temporarily immune for
1 day.
Critical Success The creature is unaffected.
Success The creature takes half damage and is stupefied 2
for 1 round.
Failure The creature takes full damage and is stupefied 2 for 1
minute. While affected, the creature must attempt another
save at the start of its turn; on a failure, it’s slowed 1 for that
turn as it sobs uncontrollably.
Critical Failure The creature takes double damage and for 1
minute, it’s stupefied 4 and slowed 1 as it sobs uncontrollably.
Heightened (+1) The mental damage increases by 1d6.
189
189
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
21551735
21551735
21551735
35 30
435730
435730
