paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
21551645
21551645
21551645
356 0
435640
435640
Introduction
The
Archivist’s
Training
Manual
The Stolen
Casefiles
Cryptids
Secret
Societies
Deviant
Abilities
Deviant
Abilities
Deviant
Spells
A Song of
Making and
Unmaking
Mirrors and
Imposters
Cults
Curses and
Pacts
Temporal
Anomalies
Mindscapes
Spell &
Item Lists,
Glossary &
Index
Dark
Archive
CAMPAIGN DEVIANT ABILITIES
A campaign deviant ability comes about as part of the
story of your campaign. The party may find themselves
with strangely expanded senses after taking shelter
beneath an ancient monolith, or they might drink from a
spring of pure magic in a grove and find themselves able to
command the elements. As the GM, you should decide the
specifics of the deviant abilities yourself, matching them
to the event and themes of your campaign. The players
might not discover the full capabilities or quirks of their
new abilities immediately. Consider waiting for a dramatic
moment to reveal that a player has gained a deviant
ability, perhaps letting them unleash an unexpected blast
of lightning right when they need it the most.
Because a campaign deviant ability is normally only
present for a level or maybe two, you usually don’t
have to worry about advancing the ability or adjusting
campaign rewards to take stock of your PCs’ additional
powers. Rather, simply keep in mind that the players might
have an extra source of damage or utility ability up their
sleeve while they are in a given town or dungeon. Be clear
with your players that their newly acquired abilities are
temporary; for instance, it might be that the powers the
players gained from the ancient monolith will fade once
their journey takes them too far. If a player enjoys their
deviant ability and wants to keep it even after the moment
in the campaign has passed, work with them to develop a
story that fits their character—maybe they take a piece of
the monolith with them, letting them keep their powers.
In this case, you can give them the opportunity to retrain
some of their existing feats into deviant ability feats or let
them take those feats again in the future.
Building a Deviant
Ability
Decide what deviant ability you want to build, and what
event led to the deviant ability or awoke it. Each ability
comprises a main classification—grouping energy projection
or enhanced physiology together—with an attendant
backlash effect that can occur when the unstable power
is pushed too far, and finally, one or more strange quirks
(page 103) that personalize the deviant ability further.
If building a background deviant ability, take a feat from
the classification that best matches the power you want—
these ability classifications determine the general theme of
your ability, as well as what type of backlash can happen if
your ability runs rampant. For instance, if your power is to
breathe blasts of electricity, you could take the Storming
Breath feat from the dragon classification, which covers
energy manipulation. Once you have gained a feat in
a given classification, you can take only feats from
that classification, as well as universal deviant ability
feats. If you are playing with campaign deviant
abilities, simply grant your player the abilities
that best fit the story, ignoring the split between
classifications if needed.
Deviant Classifications
The Dark Archive classifies deviant abilities into broad
categories, typically filing them according to their ultimate
effects, since the source of the deviations range so widely.
If you are advancing your deviant ability, you can do so
with the below deviant feats. Feats with the deviant trait
are class feats, but can be taken by any class. When you
take the feat, it gains the trait appropriate for your class.
DEVIATION SAVES AND ATTACK ROLLS
Many deviations allow for a saving throw or have other
abilities that change as you go up in level. The DC for
any saving throw called for by a deviation is the higher
of your class DC or spell DC. The attack modifier of a
deviation is 10 lower than that DC, unless the deviation
calls for a Strike, in which case the attack modifier is
the normal attack modifier of the Strike. A deviation’s
counteract modifier is equal to your counteract modifier.
99
99
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
21551645
21551645
21551645
356 0
435640
435640
