paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
21551591
21551591
21551591
35586
435586
435586
Introduction
The
Archivist’s
Training
Manual
Psychic Class
Thaumaturge
Class
Psychic
Archetype
Thaumaturge
Archetype
The Stolen
Casefiles
Spell &
Item Lists,
Glossary &
Index
Dark
Archive
SYMPATHETIC VULNERABILITIES
FEAT 6
THAUMATURGE
Prerequisites Exploit Vulnerability, mortal weakness or
personal antithesis
When you apply your will to invoke a vulnerability, the result
is more powerful, and the vulnerability ripples out in a web
from your main target to affect a broader range of creatures.
This has one of two effects, based on the type of vulnerability
you invoked.
While you have mortal weakness applied, your Strikes
also apply that weakness against any creature that has that
weakness, not just creatures of the exact same kind. For
instance, if you used mortal weakness against a red dragon
to apply its weakness to cold to your Strikes, those Strikes
would also apply to the weakness to cold of fire elementals
or any other creature with a weakness to cold.
While you have personal antithesis applied to a
non-humanoid creature, you can apply your custom weakness
to all creatures of the exact same kind. For example, if you
used personal antithesis against an imp, the custom weakness
would apply to other imps but not to other non-imp devils.
8TH LEVEL
CURSED EFFIGY [one-action]
FEAT 8
CURSE
ESOTERICA
THAUMATURGE
Prerequisites Exploit Vulnerability
Requirements Your last action was a successful Strike against
the target of your Exploit Vulnerability, and the Strike dealt
physical damage.
After your attack, you grab a bit of blood, cut hair, or other
piece of the creature’s body. You incorporate the material
into a premade doll, paper figure, or other effigy to create a
sympathetic link that makes it harder to resist your abilities. As
long as you are Exploiting Vulnerability against that creature,
it takes a –2 status penalty to its saving throws against
thaumaturge abilities or items that use your thaumaturge
class DC.
ELABORATE TALISMAN ESOTERICA
FEAT 8
THAUMATURGE
Prerequisites Talisman Esoterica
As you continue to collect talismanic esoterica, you improve
your ability to create temporary talismans. You can create four
temporary talismans each day instead of two.
Special You can select this feat a second time if you are 14th
level or higher, allowing you to create six talismans each day
instead of four.
INCREDIBLE FAMILIAR
FEAT 8
THAUMATURGE
Prerequisites Enhanced Familiar
By taking the best parts of each magical tradition, you’ve
found a way to grant your familiar even more abilities than
other familiars. You can select a base of six familiar or master
abilities each day, instead of four.
KNOW-IT-ALL
FEAT 8
THAUMATURGE
Having heard every rumor or story in the book, you know
that if you’ve heard of something in the first place, you’ve
probably heard about it at length. When you succeed at a
check to Recall Knowledge, you gain additional information
or context about the given topic. When you critically
succeed at a check to Recall Knowledge, at the GM’s
discretion, you might gain even more additional information
or context than normal.
10TH LEVEL
SHARE WEAKNESS [one-action]
FEAT 10
ESOTERICA
MANIPULATE
THAUMATURGE
Prerequisites Exploit Vulnerability, mortal weakness
Requirements You are Exploiting a creature’s Vulnerability
using mortal weakness.
You select an object from your esoterica that has great
personal value to you, such as a locket or treasured ring,
and you grant it to an ally, establishing a personal link that
allows your ally to affect an enemy as if they were you.
The ally’s Strikes apply the weakness from your mortal
weakness the same way your Strikes do. This benefit
ends when your Exploit Vulnerability ends or you Share
Weakness again.
THAUMATURGE’S INVESTITURE
FEAT 10
THAUMATURGE
Prerequisites Charisma 16
Magical equipment and gear are the tools of your trade, and
you know you need as many as possible to help you against
the supernatural. You gain the Incredible Investiture skill
feat, increasing your limit on invested items from 10 to 12.
The limit increases to 14 if you have Charisma 18, 16 if you
have Charisma 20, 18 if you have Charisma 22, and 20 if you
have Charisma 24.
TWIN WEAKNESS [two-actions]
FEAT 10
ESOTERICA
THAUMATURGE
Prerequisites mortal weakness or personal antithesis
Requirements You’re holding an implement and a weapon,
you are using Exploit Vulnerability with mortal weakness
or personal antithesis, and the target creature is within
reach of both your implement and weapon.
As you make an attack augmented by your esoterica, you
also press your implement against the creature, applying its
weakness as your implement’s energies sear the creature’s
flesh. Make a melee Strike against the target of your
Exploit Vulnerability. On any attack roll result but a critical
failure, you also press your implement against the creature,
automatically dealing the additional damage from Exploit
Vulnerability. This is in addition to any damage from your
Strike, including the weakness the Strike applies from Exploit
Vulnerability. This counts as two attacks when calculating
your multiple attack penalty.
45
45
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
21551591
21551591
21551591
35586
435586
435586
