paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
21551579
21551579
21551579
355
435574
435574
Introduction
The
Archivist’s
Training
Manual
Psychic Class
Thaumaturge
Class
Psychic
Archetype
Thaumaturge
Archetype
The Stolen
Casefiles
Spell &
Item Lists,
Glossary &
Index
Dark
Archive
Critical Success You remember the creature’s weaknesses, and
as you empower your esoterica, you have a flash of insight
that grants even more knowledge about the creature. You
learn all of the creature’s resistances, weaknesses, and
immunities, including the amounts of the resistances and
weaknesses and any unusual weaknesses or vulnerabilities,
such as what spells will pass through a golem’s antimagic.
You can exploit either the creature’s mortal weakness or
personal antithesis (see below). Your unarmed and weapon
Strikes against the creature also become magical if they
weren’t already.
Success You recall an important fact about the creature,
learning its highest weakness (or one of its highest
weaknesses, if it has multiple with the same value) but not
its other weaknesses, resistances, or immunities. You can
exploit either the creature’s mortal weakness or personal
antithesis. Your unarmed and weapon Strikes against the
creature also become magical if they weren’t already.
Failure Failing to recall a salient weakness about the creature,
you instead attempt to exploit a more personal vulnerability.
You can exploit only the creature’s personal antithesis. Your
unarmed and weapon Strikes against the creature also
become magical if they weren’t already.
Critical Failure You couldn’t remember the right object to use
and become distracted while you rummage through your
esoterica. You become flat-footed until the beginning of your
next turn.
You can attempt to Exploit Vulnerabilities in one of
two ways: either by invoking properties that repel that
type of creature, or by attempting a more improvisational,
ad-hoc method with your esoterica that can impose a
custom weakness on any creature, albeit one that usually
isn’t as dire as a creature’s existing weakness.
Mortal Weakness After identifying a creature’s weakness,
you use a thematically resonant bit of esoterica to attune
your attacks to your discovery. Your unarmed and weapon
Strikes activate the highest weakness you discovered with
Exploit Vulnerability, even though the damage type your
weapon deals doesn’t change. This damage affects the
target of your Exploit Vulnerability, as well as any other
creatures of the exact same type, but not other creatures
with the same weakness. For example, when fighting a pack
of werewolves, you might use silver shavings or crushed
moonstone to deal damage that applies their weakness to
silver to your attacks against any of the werewolves, but
you wouldn’t apply this damage to any other monsters with
a weakness to silver.
Personal Antithesis You improvise a custom weakness on
a creature by forcefully presenting and empowering a
piece of esoterica that repels it on an individual level; for
instance, against a tyrant, you might procure a broken
chain that once held a captive. This causes the target
creature, and only the target creature, to gain a weakness
against your unarmed and weapon Strikes equal to 2 + half
your level.
IMPLEMENT’S EMPOWERMENT
The power of your implement can also be turned to
the more common task of combat, its power adding to
and amplifying the effects of runes and other magical
empowerments. When you Strike, you can trace mystic
patterns with an implement you’re holding to empower
the Strike, causing it to deal 2 additional damage per
weapon damage die. Channeling the power requires
full use of your hands. You don’t gain the benefit of
implement’s empowerment if you are holding anything in
either hand other than a single one-handed weapon, other
implements, or esoterica, and you must be holding at least
one implement to gain the benefit.
THAUMATURGE FEATS
At 1st level and every even-numbered level, you gain a
thaumaturge class feat.
SKILL FEATS
2ND
At 2nd level and every 2 levels thereafter, you gain a skill
feat. You must be trained or better in the corresponding
skill to select a skill feat.
GENERAL FEATS
3RD
At 3rd level and every 4 levels thereafter, you gain a
general feat.
LIGHTNING REFLEXES
3RD
Your reflexes are lightning fast. Your proficiency rank for
Reflex saves increases to expert.
KEY TERMS
You’ll see the following key terms in many
thaumaturge class features.
Esoterica: The esoterica trait is present in
many thaumaturge feats and class features that
incorporate the various talismans, supernatural
trinkets, and other objects you carry with you.
Abilities that have the esoterica trait require you
to be in possession of your esoterica to use them.
Normally, you’re assumed to always have your
esoterica with you, but in some rare circumstances,
you might either not have them on hand or have
your gear stripped from you.
Temporary Items: Several feats allow you to
prepare temporary items. Much like the infused
items created by alchemists, these temporary items
last only a short time before becoming useless.
Temporary items are clearly not up to the same
quality as other items, so they typically can’t be
sold. If an ability doesn’t list how long a temporary
item lasts, the item lasts until the next time you
make your daily preparations. Any effect created by
a temporary item also ends at that time if it hasn’t
already (unless it’s a permanent effect).
33
33
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
21551579
21551579
21551579
355
435574
435574
