paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
21551659
21551659
21551659
3565
435654
435654
Introduction
The
Archivist’s
Training
Manual
The Stolen
Casefiles
Cryptids
Secret
Societies
Deviant
Abilities
Deviant
Abilities
Deviant
Spells
A Song of
Making and
Unmaking
Mirrors and
Imposters
Cults
Curses and
Pacts
Temporal
Anomalies
Mindscapes
Spell &
Item Lists,
Glossary &
Index
Dark
Archive
WIHSAAKS (2)
CREATURE 6
Pathfinder Bestiary 3 220
Initiative Perception +14
A10. STORAGE
This room was originally used to store food and alcohol,
but the residents that used this room left the castle several
centuries back, leaving the crates and barrels in this room
to decay.
Treasure: One crate contains various bottles of spoiled
wine. Among these bottles is a decanter of endless water.
A character that spends 20 minutes searching through
the storage containers can locate the decanter. Otherwise,
a character can notice the decanter immediately with a
successful DC 20 Perception check.
A11. CAVERN
SEVERE 6
Yllaldo originally connected the chambers in
this area to this natural cavern, intending to
transform into an underground garden.
The hero-god eventually decided against
this plan, hoping to seal off the area to
provide even greater protection
for the room containing the
jawbone. Yllaldo was never
able to return and finish the
task, though, and it remained
unfinished until his death.
A bulette took residence in the large cave, having found
it by chance. When the monks fought with the bulette in
the cave, its rampage destroyed several walls connected to
the cavern, including the sealed wall leading into area A12.
The massive cavern remains the home for the bulette. The
ceiling rises to 40 feet in this cave.
Creatures: While the bulette would likely have run away
after its fight with the monks, the power of the exposed
jawbone compelled the bulette to remain. Its greater
proximity to the jawbone caused the bulette to develop
unique sound-based abilities that share the same tone as
the jawbone’s song. The bulette now paces around in the
room, ignoring anyone beyond the cave. It attacks anyone
that enters, intending to defend the jawbone with its life.
While it doesn’t chase anyone beyond the cave to the
south, it will enter the sealed room to protect the jawbone.
EMPOWERED BULETTE
CREATURE 9
Pathfinder Bestiary 48
Initiative Perception +18
High-speed Regeneration The bulette’s body vibrates at
hypersonic speed before its wounds close. This High-Speed
Regeneration can be suppressed by cold damage, which
slows the bulette’s metabolism.
Storming Breath The bulette can emit a grinding scream
that deals sonic damage. When it uses this ability, it Flies
backward 15 feet in a straight line directly opposite its blast.
This movement doesn’t trigger reactions based on movement.
A12. SEALED ROOM
The walls of this room are marked with countless magical
runes, glowing and dimming in alternating patterns. A
massive bone marked with similar runes rests on a stone altar
in the center of the room. The southeastern portion of the
room has collapsed, opening out into a large cavern. A barely
perceptible humming fills the air, cloying against the skin.
Yllaldo and the other hero-gods created this magical
safe room to seal away the power of Nolimarthos’s
jawbone. The bone itself also bears several runes to
help contain the jawbone’s power. The room was
intentionally hidden away to avoid any disruptions
to the magic’s power. Unfortunately, with the wall’s
collapse, the power of the seals
weakened significantly, allowing
the tone of Nolimarthos’s song
of unmaking to ring out beyond
this chamber.
The song’s power is nearing its
end after millennia, and the jawbone
is now vulnerable. Having gained
their powers from the jawbone, the
PCs now have its resonance within their
bodies, which they can use to destroy the
jawbone once and for all. If the PCs enter
the chamber, the jawbone’s tone compels them to leave
the chamber. A character that succeeds a DC 23 Will
save can approach the jawbone. On a failure, a character
takes 2d10 nonlethal mental damage (double damage
on a critical failure) and can’t approach for 10 minutes.
Once a character can reach the jawbone, grabbing
the bone causes the tone to subside. This allows the
other PCs to approach safely. If all of the PCs touch
the jawbone together, their collective resonance causes
the jawbone to shatter, putting an end to Nolimarthos’s
song forever.
CONCLUSION
With Nolimarthos’s jawbone destroyed, the last
remnants of the demon lord’s song of making and
unmaking come to an end. This also puts an end to
the deviant abilities affecting the region. Anyone that
developed an ability due to the jawbone loses it within
the next few hours as the embers of power sputter out,
which also reverses the effects on the monks.
Once the PCs return to Edibaro, he praises the PCs
for their work in destroying the jawbone and ending
the uncontrolled outbreak of deviant abilities. If the PCs
ask Edibaro about the jawbone, the monk is not able
to share any information on it. He was unaware of the
jawbone’s existence and chalks the jawbone up to the
mysterious nature of the hero-gods of ancient time. For
now, the PCs can rest well knowing that the people of
Xopatl are safe from this danger.
113
113
Jawbone of Nolimarthos
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
21551659
21551659
21551659
3565
435654
435654
