paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
21551616
21551616
21551616
356
435611
435611
Creatures: The Birchfrost Beast typically patrols this
area from west to east, seeking out any trappers in the tree
line before approaching the shore to find anglers. It focuses
on PCs that appear to be hunters, starting with any PCs
that attempted to raise its ire and Coax it Out during the
stakeout, then turning to those who use abilities like Hunt
Prey or items like snares during the fight. It uses hit-and-
run tactics, preferring to approach from underground, use
its Blur Form ability to disappear into the underbrush, and
then Stalk. If reduced to less than half its Hit Points, the
Birchfrost Beast attempts to flee back to its lair to the east.
THE BIRCHFROST BEAST
CREATURE 5
Rumored daeodon (page 61, Pathfinder Bestiary 43)
Initiative Perception +13
Speed 40 feet, burrow 40 feet
Development: The fleeing Birchfrost Beast points the
PCs in the right direction to find its lair, either by following
the creature as it attempts to escape or finding one of the
well-packed paths along the way. If the PCs defeated the
Birchfrost Beast before it started fleeing, Searching the area
uncovers these same tracks. Examining the tracks with a
DC 16 Survival check reveals the Birchfrost Beast is the
main creature using this path, but occasionally two smaller
but similarly hooved creatures also use this path. Following
the trampled path doesn’t require any skill checks and
leads the PCs down a winding route alongside the shore.
After about 10 minutes of walking, the path ends by an
eroded cliff (see area B).
B. Cliffside Lair
Nestled into the side of the cliff is an opening, large by
human standards but easily overlooked in the eroded
cliffside. This naturally occurring cave in the cliffside served
as the original lair of the Birchfrost Beast years ago, back
when it was only a foul-tempered daeodon. When the rich
man attempted to make his fortune, he camped too close
to the daeodon’s lair. At night, when it emerged to forage
for food, it caught the rich man unaware. A scuffle ensued,
and the daeodon was victorious. The transformation to the
Birchfrost Beast began later, after it tore out the rabbits
caught in snares during a hard winter. As its story and
reputation spread, its foul, territorial nature changed with
the tales, turning the Birchfrost Beast from an ordinary
creature to an ecological protector.
If the Birchfrost Beast escaped, it engages the PCs in a
desperate last stand at the entrance to this lair. It fights
more aggressively than by the lakeside and attempts to
injure the PCs enough to drive them off. Past the entrance,
light leaks in, illuminating area B1 and filtering to dim light
in area B2. The height of this cave is 10 feet.
B1. FOOL’S GALLERY
Read or paraphrase the following as the PCs enter the
cliffside lair.
Sunbeams filter through the ivy curtain at the entrance of the
cave, illuminating a grisly scene in soft lighting. Humanoid
corpses in varying states of decay are laid out in haphazard
positioning. Over a dozen bodies are present among the sickly
sweet stench of death.
A passageway in the cave winds past the corpses and into
deep shadow.
This area contains the remains of the poachers killed
by the Birchfrost Beast. The remains still have all their
possessions and have been killed in a similar manner. A
successful DC 18 Medicine check identifies the cause of
death as bodily trauma from when the Birchfrost Beast
charged at them with its tusks. None of the remains have
been consumed or otherwise disturbed. In all, the fifteen
bodies line up in a grisly timeline.
The first body is a tall human dressed in a quilted
damask vest, which a successful DC 18 Society identifies
as a fashionable style from approximately eight decades
ago. This is the original man from the Birchfrost Beast’s
tale. The next six bodies have about a decade between each
death, until the most recent eight that all died within the
past year. The newest body is a halfling whose leg is still
stuck in a snare and seems to have died about a week ago.
If the PCs return the halfling’s body to Birchfrost, they can
be identified as a tourist who was interested in gathering
local flowers for dye. The clothing and equipment on the
bodies are too soiled by decay to be of any value.
B2. THE NEST
MODERATE 3
Read or paraphrase the following as the PCs enter this area.
In the dim light of the cave, shadows obscure a den of long
grass. The air in this space stills, diminishing sound. Damp
natural clay forms the sides and floor of this area, making every
footstep squelch and covering everything in cool moisture.
The Birchfrost Beast and its family nest here. Crushed
acorn caps, bark, and tough bulbs litter the area, the
remains of the creatures’ meals. The grass den covers the
mate and whelp as the PCs arrive, though their breathing
and movement make it clear there are creatures here.
Hazard: A hampering web (Gamemastery Guide
77) spans the entrance to this area, just past the turn in
the cave. The Birchfrost Beast is aware of this web and
typically burrows under it when it leaves the area.
Creature: As the PCs enter this nest, the Birchfrost
Beast’s mate slumbers with its whelp. They sleep under
the long grass nest, stirring as the PCs enter. The grunting
snores are audible as they enter the area, alerting them
to the presence of the creatures. Unless the PCs made an
extraordinary amount of noise in the lair, the mate just
stirs from its slumber as they approach, giving them a
round to plan.
Prior to the death of the original Birchfrost Beast, its
mate was a mundane boar. However, with the death of the
70
70
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
21551616
21551616
21551616
356
435611
435611
