paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
21551685
21551685
21551685
35680
435680
435680
Introduction
The
Archivist’s
Training
Manual
The Stolen
Casefiles
Cryptids
Secret
Societies
Deviant
Abilities
Mirrors and
Imposters
Cults
Living Vessel
Archetype
Apocryphal
Domain
Spells
Cult Rituals
The Verdure
of Iblydos
Curses and
Pacts
Temporal
Anomalies
Mindscapes
Spell &
Item Lists,
Glossary &
Index
Dark
Archive
And survive it does, despite all expectations. While its
numbers, tenets, true purpose, and recruitment methods
all remain shrouded in secrecy, outside research suggests
that there’s always exactly one small sect of the faith active
at any given time, and that they worship a pair of gods
characterized as lovers separated by death. An aspect of
Shizuru and Tsukiyo, perhaps? Though the choice of shrine
location within natural caves, decorated with carvings and
a specific kind of flowering Casmar ivy, suggests otherwise.
On the other hand, our scant historical records and the
presence of star charts at some shrines seem to indicate that
the Sacred Truth appears in particular locations determined
by astrological phenomena. Presumably, shrines
are built and mystics initiated in preparation
for this astrological event, during which
the entire sect (roughly a dozen people)
enter their shrines and remain inside
for 3 full days. What further rituals they
perform there remain, as with most of their
secrets, a complete mystery. The only known
requirement of the holy caves is that they can
in no way be tied to the Darklands. The
most recently discovered shrines
reach barely more than a dozen
feet
before
dead-ending
into
solid rock.
The Wandering Way
While the intoxication cult and
Sacred Truth maintain their existence
through cycles in which sects rise, fall,
and then rise anew, the followers of the Wandering Way
maintain, conceal, and spread their faith through the very
thing they venerate: roads, and most specifically, those roads
that connect civilizations across a vast distance of wilds,
though it seems they also include hunting paths, hiking
trails, and all other paths created by sapient creatures.
The faithful, who call themselves the Wandering Ones,
are most often itinerant travelers—typically lone wanderers
or small groups of companions, but occasionally including
entire Varisian caravans or the extended families of
nomadic Arcadians. Our fellow adventurers may even have
spoken with one or more of them on their travels without
knowing it, as they are widespread and signal their faith
to one another only through a particular knot-like design
that can easily be concealed in travel clothing, jewelry,
tattoos, or even braided hair.
The Wandering Ones are known to be personable, as
they consider the bonds between individuals to be invisible
roads uniting their hearts. While they rarely broach the
subject first, most proudly acknowledge their faith when
asked about it by outsiders and can even answer questions.
One such fellow, whose acquaintance I made in an
Andoren pub, described their guiding tenets as followed:
“Be ever moving forward and leave what’s behind better
than when you arrived.” The wider cult also maintains
a small number of open practices that they’re happy to
share, such as a ritual that anoints roads with alcohol to
ensure a safe journey.
HERO-GODS OF IBLYDOS
As they come from one of the oldest surviving human
cultures, the faiths of Iblydos have taken on forms unique
to the region, much of it shaped by ancient cyclops
immigrants from fallen Ghol-Gan. Of these, the tradition of
hero-gods is likely the most well known and well regarded.
The greatest mortals earn the rite of myth‑speaking,
in which the cyclopes foresee with a soothsaying ritual
how that hero might attain mythic power
through great deeds. These hero-gods
can be regarded as the greatest
among mortals: beings of myth shy
of “true” divinity due only to their
lack of immortality.
In some ways, the cults of the
hero-gods stand in stark, optimistic
contrast to those of the Elder Mythos.
While the latter emphasizes the futile
weakness of mortals in the face of
inexplicably powerful beings, the
Iblydan tradition could not
exist without the inherent
belief that all mortals—even
barely sentient creatures like
the dire lion Drokalion—can
stand on even footing with the divine
without ascending to full immortality, if
only they are bold enough to embrace their own destiny.
Hero-god worship may be on an irreversible decline;
since the death of Aroden, the prophecies essential to
guiding future champions have failed more often than
they’ve succeeded. That, combined with the slow decline
of the cyclopes, means that any future hero-gods may well
be forced to seize their destinies without a road map to
guide them. Many fear that this generation of heroes will
be the last the islands ever see.
The Sea Cult of Thrasea
Apart from the hero-gods, Iblydos is also home to a few
mystery cults who fancy themselves as maintaining the
traditions of ancient cyclopean Ghol-Gan, specifically the
worship of its gods. One such cult, of the Isle of Thrasea,
holds significant influence over sea trade. Located on the
archipelago’s far southern edge and thought to be the last
viable landing point before entering the open sea, the island
of Thrasea is said to have once been sacred to two bonded
ocean gods worshipped by cyclopes. Their names are now
spoken only upon its shores, and only among the initiates.
Said initiates supposedly include almost all Iblydan sailors,
as it’s considered standard practice to initiate all would-be
seafarers into the cult. Archivist Cricklee is skeptical it holds
nearly the ubiquity of that claim.
139
139
Shrine to the Wandering Way
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
21551685
21551685
21551685
35680
435680
435680
