paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
21551745
21551745
21551745
35
0
435740
435740
Introduction
The
Archivist’s
Training
Manual
The Stolen
Casefiles
Cryptids
Secret
Societies
Deviant
Abilities
Mirrors and
Imposters
Cults
Curses and
Pacts
Temporal
Anomalies
Mindscapes
Mindscape
Statistics
Psychic
Duels
Psychic
Duelist
Archetype
Mind Smith
Archetype
Sleepwalker
Archetype
The Last
Dream
Spell &
Item Lists,
Glossary &
Index
Dark
Archive
Mindscape Statistics
Similar to a plane or dimension, a mindscape has statistics.
The rules for planar traits and stat blocks begin on page
136 of the Gamemastery Guide. The stat block for more
limited binary mindscapes is on page 202.
IMMERSIVE MINDSCAPE
MINDSCAPE
FINITE
METAMORPHIC
SUBJECTIVE GRAVITY
An immersive mindscape forms in the Astral Plane and is
shaped purely from the thoughts of its creator. Created of
powerful psychic magic, it brings creatures fully into it in their
astral forms. Their bodies might remain behind, inactive, or be
totally drawn in, depending on the nature of the mindscape.
Typically, the mindscape appears to the senses to be a real
place, and the inhabitants believe they’re physically there.
Though a mindscape is always mutable with subjective
gravity, its nature can be veiled, causing inhabitants
to be unaware of these properties. Veiled
mindscapes typically appear to have normal
gravity and morphic traits. Overcoming
this appearance to alter the mindscape’s
structure or use subjective gravity requires
realizing it’s false.
Variations A mindscape’s alignment trait
is usually neutral but might be altered by
the creator’s emotions. A mindscape might
have unbounded scope and its time might be
altered, typically to flowing time or timeless.
These aren’t possible with the basic construct
mindscape ritual.
MINDSCAPE RITUALS
CONSTRUCT MINDSCAPE
RITUAL 5
RARE
ILLUSION
Cast 1 day; Cost precious clay, wood, or other modeling
materials worth spell level × 20 gp; Secondary Casters 2
Primary Check Arcana or Occultism (master); Secondary
Checks Arcana or Occultism, Crafting
Duration 1 day
You create an entirely mental environment called an
immersive mindscape. It can have any appearance you and
the secondary casters imagine and hold in your minds as you
execute the ritual. A mindscape is typically veiled, disguising
its nature as a mental construct, but you can choose to make
it overt. Even a veiled mindscape has some signs it’s not a
real place that can be revealed through close inspection or by
spending a long time there. Most mindscapes are incapable of
physically harming those inside. Even though the mindscape
you create is limited in dimension, it appears to have a
convincing environment around it, such as a sky and clouds.
Critical Success You create a mindscape approximately a
half-mile in length and width, and 50 feet in height (large
enough to contain a typical village). The GM might allow
you to make it larger if it has little detail, such as a grassy
plain. You and any secondary casters of your choice can
enter it and you can leave a doorway that you and any
creatures you designate can pass through.
Success As critical success, but the mindscape is approximately
25 feet in length, width, and height (like a modest house).
Failure You can’t hold the image together and it falls apart.
Critical Failure Your secret desires horribly warp the
mindscape into a distorted mirror of what you intended.
Heightened (6th) The duration is 1 week.
Heightened (9th) The duration is 1 year, and the area on a
critical success is 1 mile in length and width.
Heightened (10th) The duration is unlimited, and the area on
a critical success is 1 mile in length and width. The cost
increases to 2,000 gp.
MINDSCAPE DOOR
RITUAL 3
UNCOMMON
ILLUSION
Cast 1 hour; Cost incense and focusing diagrams
worth a total value of the target’s level (minimum
1) × 1 gp, for each target; Secondary Casters 3
Primary Check Arcana or Occultism (expert);
Secondary Checks Arcana or Occultism,
Deception or Diplomacy, Perception
Range touch; Targets yourself and up to 5
willing creatures
You project the targets into an immersive
mindscape or cause them to exit one. You
must be aware the mindscape exists, though
you don’t need to know specifics. The casters
must be in physical contact with one another in
a circle for the duration of the casting and all targets
must be selected from these casters. Your bodies
typically remain behind in stasis when you enter a
mindscape, though some mindscapes pull you entirely into them
upon entrance. If you enter a mindscape, you can leave only by
using another mindscape door ritual, finding an exit within the
nature of the mindscape, or when the mindscape ceases to exist.
When exiting a mindscape, you typically return to your bodies or
to the location where you entered the mindscape.
If the mindscape’s creator wants to prevent anyone from
entering or exiting, the DC of the primary check is the creator’s
Will DC if that would be higher than the ritual’s normal DC.
Critical Success You transport the creatures as you intended
and can leave a portal that lasts for an unlimited duration. It
typically looks like an ordinary door or passage appropriate
to the mindscape. Any target of the spell can enter or exit
through this portal as they would an ordinary door. If you
wish, you can make the door passable by anyone.
Success You transport the creatures as you intended.
Failure You fail to enter or exit the mindscape.
Critical Failure Something goes horribly wrong. The GM decides
whether mental feedback deals 9d6 mental damage to
all ritual casters (DC 26 basic Will save) or 1d4 casters are
unwillingly pulled into the mindscape (or ejected from it).
Heightened (8th) The ritual targets up to 100 willing creatures,
the critical failure damage increases to 20d6, and the critical
failure save DC increases to 40.
199
199
Mindscape Door
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
21551745
21551745
21551745
35
0
435740
435740
