paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
21551601
21551601
21551601
35596
435596
435596
Introduction
The
Archivist’s
Training
Manual
The Stolen
Casefiles
Cryptids
Aftermath
Feats
Cryptid
Adjustments
Cryptid Gear
Cryptid Class
Feats
The Beast of
Birchfrost
Secret
Societies
Deviant
Abilities
Mirrors and
Imposters
Cults
Curses and
Pacts
Temporal
Anomalies
Mindscapes
Spell &
Item Lists,
Glossary &
Index
Dark
Archive
Rarity: Rare
Aftermath feats, which are always rare, represent new
powers causes by dangerous encounters with the weird
and deadly. The prerequisite of an aftermath feat can be
met only at a dramatic moment in your story—
slitting the throat of a drowsy drake in a random
encounter likely won’t awaken any latent
abilities, but defeating a mighty dragon
at the end of a long, heroic journey just
might. A fool who runs around dousing
themself in the blood of every dragon
they slay is more likely to contract
some sort of disease than
manifest a new power.
Every aftermath feat is a
class feat but can be taken by a
character of any class, provided
the character has gone through
the unlikely ordeal that unlocks
it. The feat gains the appropriate trait
for the class of the character who selected
it. If an appropriate story event occurs that fits the
prerequisites of an aftermath feat of your level or lower,
the GM might permit you to immediately retrain a class
feat into the appropriate aftermath feat. An aftermath feat
isn’t something you can typically remove once you have
one, so you can’t retrain it in the normal manner. The
GM might determine a specific quest or other procedure
you could use to remove the aftermath feat.
DEVIL’S EYE
FEAT 4
RARE
AFTERMATH
Prerequisites You made a bargain with a devil or won a legal
case or other similar duel of wits against a devil.
Your experience in the finer points of bargaining with a devil
has awakened a sinister power that now inhabits your left
eye. The eye is the same shape and iris color as your normal
eye would be, but the sclera is a deep red instead of white
and the pupil is a narrow, vertical slit. The eye grants you an
abnormal understanding of the loopholes and legal processes
employed to trap poor creatures that don’t know any better.
You gain the Objection reaction. You also become an expert
in Legal Lore and gain a +1 circumstance bonus to any check
you make to read or negotiate a treatise, contract, or similar
text. At 7th level you become a master of Legal Lore, and at
15th level you become legendary in Legal Lore. You can use
Legal Lore in place of Perception to detect verbal loopholes,
double entendres, hidden meanings, code, or contradictions
in a conversation you can hear. This doesn’t let you fully
understand coded speech but alerts you to its presence.
Objection [reaction] (fortune) Frequency once per minute; Trigger
You’re about to attempt a saving throw against a linguistic
effect; Effect Your devil’s eye crackles with
infernal glee as you discover a loophole in the
wording of the triggering effect. You roll
your saving throw twice, taking the
higher result.
ECHO OF THE FALLEN
FEAT 4
RARE
AFTERMATH
Prerequisites You helped to lay a
haunt, ghost, or spirit to rest.
With the utmost gratitude for your help
in releasing them from their unearthly coil,
a tiny sliver of a ghostly entity has remained
attached to you. This manifests as an echo of
their former self that follows you around and
that you and anyone capable of casting divine
or occult spells can see and speak with. When
you take this feat, work with your GM to choose
one martial weapon and one skill (or an advanced
weapon if you’re trained in all martial weapons) that are
appropriate for the spirit; once you’ve chosen the weapon and
skill, you can’t change them. You gain the Accept Echo action.
Accept Echo [one-action] (concentrate) Frequency once per day; Effect
You allow the echo to inhabit your body, gaining a glowing
aura around you, shining pale-green irises, a resonating
voice, and the silhouette of the spirit around your own
body, all of which can be seen clearly by others. While in
this state, you become trained in the weapon you chose and
an expert in the skill you chose. Additionally, while you’re in
this state, the echo can speak and interact with the Material
Plane using your body, and you gain a +4 status bonus to
all saves against possession effects, as the possessing spirit
protects you from other possessions.
This state lasts for 10 minutes, after which the echo
disappears completely until the next time you make your
daily preparations. You can Dismiss this effect.
At 7th level you become a master of the skill you chose,
at 13th level you become an expert with the weapon you
chose, and at 15th level you become legendary with the
skill you chose.
LINGERING CHILL
FEAT 4
RARE
AFTERMATH
COLD
Prerequisites You’ve been brought to 0 Hit Points by an
enemy that has the cold trait or an enemy’s ability that has
the cold trait.
The chill of ice entered your veins and never left, adjusting the
internal temperature of your body. Your breath comes out in
AFTERMATH FEATS
Stories abound of a battle-scarred hero, bathed in the blood of the fearsome dragon, awakening to a strange new power.
The conflict changes their very being, leaving an unforgettable reminder that awakens greater power and a unique kind
of heroism.
55
55
Devil’s Eye
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
21551601
21551601
21551601
35596
435596
435596
