paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
21551696
21551696
21551696
3569
435691
435691
Hyacinth is distracted and whispers a word of warning—
to beware the hidden danger that lurks somewhere on the
island. Without providing further details, they return to
the ocean, out of Hyacinth’s notice.
I Cherish You
As the ship pulls onto the Womb’s
pristine shores, followers dressed
in light pinks, blues, and lavenders
rush out, calling out “I cherish you” in
greeting. They place crowns made with
intertwined flowers and merfolk crystals
on the PCs’ heads, then hand the PCs pastel
sashes to wear. Though the followers accept
if the PCs decline to change clothing, they
pressure the newcomers into wearing the
crowns, encouraging them to fit in
with the others. Instead of getting
confrontational, the followers use
emotional manipulation to urge
the PCs to fall in line, referring to
concepts such as the honor of being
chosen as part of the ceremony and
the importance of group harmony.
They treat any PCs who wear the
crown more favorably and encourage them to help
persuade their friends to participate rather than causing
a scene.
A1. MOTHER’S MEDITATION
The PCs see one other boat arriving with another pair of
non-members who have also been invited to the ritual.
They introduce themselves to the PCs as Thalia and Denes
(NG human aristocrats) and attempt to make small talk
but are quickly separated and guided to a building made
of glass, where they are asked to sit. The crowd sways
to the sound of a harp, and PCs are encouraged to join
in. If the PCs feel out of place or skeptical and choose
to voice their opinions, followers hush them, telling
them not to be rude. Mother Mitera eventually arrives,
planting herself in a large gazebo, from which she guides
the group through an hour-long meditation.
“Close your eyes. Breathe in the love and watch that light go
through your body. You are a shining beacon, ready to guide
and help others. To serve the good of all Iblydos.”
Mitera continues with her lecture on how to achieve
ascension, her words taken from Ludovica’s writings but
scrambled to fit the purposes of the meditation. However,
something does not seem right. As she speaks, vines around
the gazebo spread out, crawling up the sides of the walls.
The crystals glow on crowns and necklaces, showing that a
bond between follower and Mother has been formed. If any
PCs are wearing the gemstone crowns, they, too, become
bonded (see Mitera’s crystal vitality link ability, page 152).
If the PCs investigate the crystals, they can attempt a
DC 20 Nature or Religion check to Identify Magic. On
a success, they notice that the gemstones are linked to
Mitera via some ritual relay elsewhere on Verdure.
Any harm that comes to her, even the
smallest bruise, will carry over to her
innocent followers as well.
When the meditation ends, the sun
leaks through the vines as they recede
into the ground. The followers stand
up and guide the PCs out the door while
Mitera retires to her private cabin, where she
must remain sequestered while preparing for the
ritual. Hyacinth tells them they now have the rest
of the day to explore before the big ceremony at
night, even offering to act as a guide.
A2. THE LAVENDER COAST
If the PCs walk around the edges
of the island, they discover several
enormous white-and-blue flowers
with
their
petals
spread
out,
quivering like cats stretching happily in
the sunlight. The 10-foot-wide flowers
are rooted in lavender grass that grows out
of the dark purple sand. A PC who succeeds at a DC 28
Nature check or a relevant DC 24 Lore check to Recall
Knowledge realizes that these plants are closely related
to moonflowers, carnivorous plants capable of telepathic
communication with others of their kind. Moonflowers
originated on another planet before being seeded on
Golarion from beyond the stars, and some of their groves
have developed new abilities. A PC using the Detect Magic
exploration activity notices magic pulsing in the sands;
with a successful DC 24 Nature or Religion check, they
can further determine that the moonflowers are drawing
vitality and sending it through their roots to another point
on the island. The moonflowers ignore the newcomers,
while Hyacinth explains that there is something special
about the soil here that allows these creatures to grow—
the same energy that gives Mother her power. If the PCs
decide to attack one of the moonflowers, it fights back,
using the statistics for Verdure’s moonflowers on page 153.
Hyacinth becomes increasingly distressed at this violence.
A3. THE NEW ARRIVALS
The other new arrivals, Thalia and Denes, are sipping wine
with giggling followers by the docks, taking in the calm sea.
The couple waves the PCs over, clearly intoxicated. They
mention that their friend Rose joined Verdure and they
wanted to see what the fuss was about, but they don’t see
her anywhere. They were surprised when they were invited
to the ceremony since it’s so exclusive, but they reckon it
must have something to do with Rose’s membership.
The couple reveal that they are popular healers in a
smaller Iblydan town, and Rose is a healer from the town
150
150
Denes
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
21551696
21551696
21551696
3569
435691
435691
