paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
21551647
21551647
21551647
356
435642
435642
Introduction
The
Archivist’s
Training
Manual
The Stolen
Casefiles
Cryptids
Secret
Societies
Deviant
Abilities
Deviant
Abilities
Deviant
Spells
A Song of
Making and
Unmaking
Mirrors and
Imposters
Cults
Curses and
Pacts
Temporal
Anomalies
Mindscapes
Spell &
Item Lists,
Glossary &
Index
Dark
Archive
Awakening Your blast powerfully batters your foes. A
creature that critically fails its save is knocked prone.
Awakening The kickback of your blast helps you make a
speedy escape. When you use this ability, you Fly backward
15 feet in a straight line directly opposite your blast. This
movement doesn’t trigger reactions based on movement.
PROPULSIVE LEAP [one-action]
FEAT 10
RARE
DEVIANT
EVOCATION
MAGICAL
By expelling flames from your feet or levitating through electrical
repulsion, you propel yourself through the air. For 1 minute, you
gain a fly Speed equal to your Speed or 20 feet, whichever is
greater. If you aren’t on solid ground at the end of your turn,
you must attempt another backlash check for your deviation,
though you remain airborne even if you fail your check unless
the damage from the check renders you unconscious.
Awakening You blast through the air at great speed, gaining
a +15-foot status bonus to your Fly speed from Propulsive Leap.
Awakening You can use your propulsion as a makeshift
weapon. The first time each round you Fly starting from the
ground, all creatures adjacent to you take 1d4 damage for
every 2 levels you have, with a basic Reflex save.
Backlash: Energetic Meltdown
As you channel energy through your deviant abilities, some
of it turns back on you, spiking your body temperature or
dancing across your skin.
Mild Backlash You take damage equal to your level as
energy scours your body.
Moderate Backlash Energy wracks your body. After taking
the damage, you gain weakness to the energy type of your
backlash until your next daily preparations. The weakness is
equal to one-third of your level. You also lose immunity to the
energy type if you had it, until your next daily preparations.
Severe Backlash Whatever furnace or well within you that
provides the energy for your deviation overloads completely,
cascading out of you in an uncontrolled burst. You deal 1d6
damage per level to all creatures in a 30-foot emanation with
a basic Fortitude save. You automatically take full damage
without attempting a save.
TROLL
Especially common when a deviant ability is born of
scientific experimentation, the troll classification connotes
improved physical abilities. While often thought of as
biological mutation, clockwork implants and personal
magical enhancements are equally likely mechanisms.
BONE SPIKES [one-action]
FEAT 2
RARE
DEVIANT
EVOCATION
MAGICAL
Sharp shards of bone tear forth from your elbows, wrists, or
other parts of your body. For 1 minute, you can make bone
spike unarmed Strikes, which deal 1d6 piercing damage and
have the versatile S and sweep trails. When you take the
Bone Spikes action, you can choose one weapon on your
person and duplicate its weapon runes onto your bone
spikes (with the exception of any runes that couldn’t apply
to the bone spears).
Awakening Your bones grow longer, lashing flexibly at
range. While you have bone spikes, you can Interact to give
your bone spikes reach 10 feet until the end of the current turn.
Awakening Grooves in your bone spikes form a channel for
venom. Your bone spikes deal 1d4 persistent poison damage,
which increases to 2d4 at 10th level and 3d4 at 18th level.
TITAN SWING [two-actions]
FEAT 2
RARE
DEVIANT
MAGICAL
TRANSMUTATION
Your limbs tense as you deliver a mighty swing. Make a melee
Strike. If it hits, you deal an extra die of weapon damage and
push the target back by 5 feet. If you’re at least 10th level,
increase this to two extra dice and push the target by 10 feet,
and if you’re at least 18th level, increase it to three extra dice
and push the target by 15 feet.
Awakening On a critical hit, you push the target back
double the normal distance and knock it prone.
Awakening On a hit, you deal 1d6 persistent bleed damage.
This increases to 2d6 at 10th level and 3d6 at 18th level.
HIGH-SPEED REGENERATION [free-action]
FEAT 6
RARE
DEVIANT
HEALING
MAGICAL
NECROMANCY
Trigger Your turn begins.
Your wounds knit together with barely a thought. You regain Hit
Points equal to double your level. When you gain this deviation,
the GM secretly selects one type of energy damage or precious
material, such as fire or cold iron. When you take damage of
that type, your wound smokes until the end of your next turn,
preventing you from using High-Speed Regeneration.
Awakening Your regeneration can automatically save you
from the brink of death. Once per day, you can use High-Speed
Regeneration when your Hit Points would be reduced to 0
instead of the usual trigger. You avoid being knocked out and
remain at the number of HP you regained.
Awakening Regrowth invigorates you. You gain a +10-foot
status bonus to your Speed until the end of your turn.
TECTONIC STOMP [two-actions]
FEAT 10
RARE
DEVIANT
EVOCATION
MAGICAL
You cause minor tremors that topple your enemies. All creatures
in a 30-foot emanation who are standing on the ground take
1d6 bludgeoning damage for every 2 levels you have, with a
basic Reflex save. A creature that fails its save also falls prone.
Awakening Your stomp also ejects large fragments from the
ground. You raise up to three stone chunks from the ground
in unoccupied squares in the emanation; the stones can’t be
adjacent to one another. The chunks are 5 feet tall, block
movement, and are large enough to Take Cover behind. They
have AC 10, Hardness 8, and Hit Points equal to your level.
They are immune to critical hits and precision damage. A stone
chunk crumbles away when it has 0 Hit Points, and all of them
crumble after 1 minute or when you use Tectonic Stomp again.
Awakening Your stomp rattles those who fail horribly. A
creature that critically fails its save is also stunned 1.
101
101
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
21551647
21551647
21551647
356
435642
435642
