paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
21551719
21551719
21551719
35
435714
435714
Introduction
The
Archivist’s
Training
Manual
The Stolen
Casefiles
Cryptids
Secret
Societies
Deviant
Abilities
Mirrors and
Imposters
Cults
Curses and
Pacts
Pacts Witch
Patron
Cursed Items
Tempting
Curses
Bargained
Contracts
Pactbinder
Archetype
Curse
Maelstrom
Archetype
Wishes in
Krasnoprudny
Temporal
Anomalies
Mindscapes
Spell &
Item Lists,
Glossary &
Index
Dark
Archive
goose—took us all the whole day to figure out how to
turn him back,” says Baba Donya. “Now, you say the
wrong thing, and pfah! You’re a goose, or your best spoon
turns magic, or worse. Watch your words, children, the
magic’s listening.”
Do you know what’s causing the magic? “Pfah, it’s
probably Unclean Powers. Rusalkas, leshys, vodyanoys,
one of those. Not cruel enough for a Poludnitsa, too
strong for a domovoi or kikimora.”
Are there a lot of those around here? “Enough. They
all love their games and their gifts, and this smells like
someone’s idea of a bet. Troublesome neighbors. They
live in the forest, though where, I couldn’t tell you.”
If the PCs helped her, before they leave, Baba Donya
gifts them the remains of her favorite spoon, which
still has some magic in it—it functions as a wand of
wall of water, except that instead of a wall of water, it
produces a wall of buckwheat porridge. Unfortunately,
the temporary conjured porridge from the wall doesn’t
provide any nourishment.
A. THE TROUBLE WITH DOLLS
SEVERE 9
After the PCs’ encounter with Baba Donya and Frosya,
they can continue exploring the village. They meet a few
other people, several suffering the effects of curses. For
instance, one young woman is unable to do anything
except sing, her throat growing hoarse and her eyes wide
as if pleading for help, while a doughty farmer is pestered
by bluebirds flitting about and pecking away at him.
No one appears to know much more than Baba Donya.
Everyone suspects the fey, but no one knows which fey
caused the curse or where they might be.
A little later though, perhaps as the PCs sit down for
lunch in the middle of the town, or just before they leave
town to explore the woods, they hear a loud, childish wail,
and a young boy around nine years old comes running in
their direction, pursued by what at first glance appears to
be an exceptionally large wooden bumblebee.
This is Volkya (CN male Kellid human child) and on closer
inspection, the bumblebee is actually a fist-sized matryoshka
doll, brightly painted to look like a rosy-cheeked Irriseni
maiden. Volkya made the mistake of wanting the doll to be
less boring and is now reaping the consequences as the doll
animated and attempted to “play” with the child.
The PCs might attempt to help the boy in some way,
perhaps by swatting at the doll or trying to distract it. If
not, Volkya runs and hides behind whichever PC looks
biggest and brawniest. In either case, read or paraphrase
the following.
The floating doll turns to regard you menacingly with its
painted features—as menacingly as a six-inch-tall wooden
matryoshka can manage. Certainly there is something
unfriendly in its serene, painted eyes.
It suddenly pops open, and out of it emerges another
doll. Though common sense would insist that the new doll
should be smaller, this one is somehow bigger, more than a
foot tall. Its painted dress is a little different, and the finely
drawn hair is different as well.
Then this doll opens up, and an even bigger doll emerges.
And then again. And again. And one last time for good
measure, releasing a ten-foot-tall matryoshka as big around
as a barrel. The six dolls stared at you for a moment with
unseeing eyes and then charge.
Volkya uses this opportunity to run
away, but the PCs have a fight on
their hands.
Creatures: The three smallest
matryoshkas (6 inches tall,
2 feet tall, and 4 feet
tall) zip about the
IF WISHES WERE FISHES...
Encourage your players to speak in-character while
in Krasnoprudny and pay close attention to anything
that the fey magic might interpret as a wish. Drop
little curse effects into the party’s adventures—
nothing with mechanical heft, but small, cosmetic
effects, and never exactly what the PCs want. If one
character calls another a pig, for example, then the
luckless recipient might have to add a few oinks to
their dialogue for the next portion of the adventure.
If someone wishes they had a horse, they might
promptly slip on a child’s wooden toy.
Ambitious GMs might even employ a “ringer”—
arrange with a suitable player to make a particularly
choice statement at some point in the adventure,
which can then lead to a preplanned effect. At the
same time, keep an eye on your players’ tolerance. If
they’re getting into the swing of things and poking
the curse, excellent, but remember that the goal is to
annoy and befuddle the characters, not the players!
173
173
Magical Matryoshkas
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
21551719
21551719
21551719
35
435714
435714
