paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
21551636
21551636
21551636
3563
435631
435631
ACT I
After the attendees have mingled for some time, the doors to
the Performance Hall open, welcoming in the audience. Ushers
whisk Vir away, off to the left staircase. “Look for me in booth
A3 on the right side if you have news for me!” she says. She
dons a mask for her night at the opera.
The blue flames illuminating the hall dim once the ushers
manage to seat everyone. With darkness comes anticipatory
silence. Suddenly, a wistful vibrato starts the performance with
a cold open. As the lush curtains rise, a beautiful song tumbles
out of the orchestra and the lights of the stage bloom, pulling the
image of a woman singing in a tower into the audience’s focus.
Most of the crowd has its attention on the performance,
but a few stand out. Up in Vir’s box, Bahvan is fixated on
one woman, Jaynt. In the middle, third row from the front,
Jaynt is staring back at him. Vir doesn’t notice, but the
PCs do with a DC 23 Perception check, as well as seeing
Bahvan rubbing his fingers on the covered wrist of his right
glove. Jaynt gets up from her seat at a crescendo, using the
distraction to run off to the dark and out into the front of
the house. Bahvan departs soon after.
The PCs can choose to follow Jaynt or Bahvan, but
they’ll have to act casually. Each PC must attempt a DC 18
Performance or Deception check to not rouse suspicion or a
DC 20 Stealth check to escape notice. If the two don’t notice
the PCs, they head to the bar to talk to Kevel. If the PCs
successfully tail either of them, they witness the following.
The tiefling woman strides up to the bar, leaning onto the counter
over an empty stool. Bahvan lingers, watching from a distance.
“Do you have it,” she asks, in a whisper, “the sleep?” The
bartender Kevel grins through his blond goatee warmly, reaching
behind the bar and procuring a show program which looks a
bit larger than the ones that have already been distributed to
the audience. She takes it from him, orders a glass of red, and
touches the back of her gloved right hand to the back of his.
If the PCs are caught, the person they’re following leads
them close enough to call for help before confronting
them. Proceed to Meeting the Helping Hand below.
MEETING THE HELPING HAND
It’s likely the PCs have motive and opportunity to speak
with the Helping Hand ringleaders during the first act.
Creatures: Kevel, Jaynt, and Bahvan are confident the
“program” Kevel handed Jaynt will take care of Mechna,
Erat, and their mercenaries (it’s a 4th-level scroll of sleep),
but they don’t know who will come to take the captives.
To convince the Helping Hand to share their plans, the PCs
will need to earn the trust of two of the three agents.
Bahvan is optimistic the PCs might help. He asks them
to let him know what they have uncovered. If they mention
the Helping Hand or express suspicions about Mechna,
Erat, or Vir, he judges them able to handle the truth.
Jaynt is disinclined to trust Bahvan after he cut off her
hand and wants to test the PCs. She asks them what should
happen when the powerful use their station to abuse
others. If the PCs give an answer that indicates respect for
the system to handle the situation, she scoffs. If they give
an answer that suggests people sometimes need to take
matters into their own hands, she asks them to tell her a
time they acted on that principle. So long as the PCs can
provide a satisfactory example, they pass Jaynt’s test.
Kevel has a more neutral opinion. If the PCs already
earned his trust by talking to him or helping Savi, he
vouches for them. Otherwise, the PCs can convince him
with a DC 20 Deception or DC 18 Diplomacy check.
If the PCs succeed, they warn the PCs not to sit in the
west side during Act II, as Jaynt will use magic to disrupt
a plan to traffic innocents for profit. Bahvan tells the PCs
where to find their weapons and armor, in a bathroom on
the second floor. Proceed to the Helping Plot on page 91.
INTERMISSION
Vir tracks down the PCs, asking if they’ve found anything.
She mentions that any interference jeopardizes trade with
Shadow Absalom, an important arrangement for the city.
If the PCs press her, she explains she’s personally at risk
from the threat; thus, it’s imperative she make her meeting.
If the PCs haven’t figured out what’s going on, Bahvan
says he’s dug up a lead and asks them to meet him in a
lavatory during the second act to retrieve their arms.
The PCs can also snoop around more and perform one
round of investigation. If they look for gloves, the DC of
the Perception check decreases to 18, and they see the
insignia appearing on the gloves of more servants and even
some of the guards.
ACT II
The audience re-congregates and the opera continues. Despite
the vigorous performance between the play’s star-crossed
lovers, the audience starts to yawn and tire, save for an absent
Bahvan, and the conspicuous tiefling woman—reading the
“program” she procured from the bar.
Most attendees on the boxes along the right side,
including Vir, Mechna, and Erat, doze off as Jaynt activates
a scroll of sleep (4th level). While the PCs’ seats aren’t in
this area, it’s possible PCs may be present. Any such PCs
must attempt a DC 23 Will save. The PCs might choose
to awaken Vir. She tearfully claims she’s being pressed
by fetchling merchants to provide folks who “won’t be
missed” to test out magical wares before taking them back
to Shadow Absalom. She knows it’s wrong but has been
convinced that refusing will stifle magical trade and cause
dire consequences for her. This is the story she told Mechna
and Erat. Vir cares little for the fate of anyone but herself.
If the PCs haven’t figured out what is afoot, they’re
likely to go to the lobby to investigate or the second-floor
90
90
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
21551636
21551636
21551636
3563
435631
435631
