paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
21551583
21551583
21551583
355 8
435578
435578
Introduction
The
Archivist’s
Training
Manual
Psychic Class
Thaumaturge
Class
Psychic
Archetype
Thaumaturge
Archetype
The Stolen
Casefiles
Spell &
Item Lists,
Glossary &
Index
Dark
Archive
the lingering resistance even if they would not have taken
any of the initial triggering damage. If the foe’s attack deals
multiple damage types, each target can separately choose the
damage type to gain lingering resistance against.
BELL
Bells symbolize the power that sounds and emotions hold
over others, soothing with one tone and startling with
another. Bells, drums, finger cymbals, and other percussion
instruments are most typical, but these implements can
be any type of portable musical instrument that is played
with one hand. Bell implements are associated with the
astrological signs of the daughter and the blossom.
Initiate Benefit
You can use your bell implement to create three different
kinds of music, each of which weakens a foe in a different
way. You gain the Ring Bell activity.
RING BELL [reaction]
AUDITORY EMOTION ENCHANTMENT MAGICAL MANIPULATE MENTAL THAUMATURGE
Trigger The target of your Exploit Vulnerability makes a Strike
or Casts a Spell that would affect you or one of your allies.
Requirements You are holding your bell implement, and the
triggering creature is within 30 feet of you.
Your implement sings out abruptly, disrupting your foe. The
piece played depends on whether the trigger was a Strike or
Spell, and it applies to the triggering Strike or Spell, except
where noted otherwise.
•	 Distracting Cacophony The trigger is a spell. You create a
musical crash of sonic energy that assails the target and
breaks its concentration. The target must succeed at a
Fortitude save against your class DC or become stupefied
1 until the end of your next turn (stupefied 2 on a critical
failure). The target doesn’t have to attempt a flat check
to avoid losing the triggering spell, but the discordant
ring does lower the spell attack roll or spell DC of the
triggering spell from stupefied.
•	 Disrupting Harmony The trigger is a Strike. You create a
strangely discordant harmony that sinks into your foe’s
mind and throws its movements off. The target must
succeed at a Will save against your class DC or become
your choice of enfeebled 1 or clumsy 1 until the end of your
next turn (enfeebled 2 or clumsy 2 on a critical failure).
Adept Benefit
7th
Your bell resonates powerfully, causing the effect to
last longer. The conditions from Ring Bell last 3 rounds
instead of 1 round.
Intensify Vulnerability
9th
Your reinforced bell can reach into the most basal part
of the target’s mind, priming it to be vulnerable to the
bell’s effects. When you successfully Strike the target of
your Exploit Vulnerability, your bell implement plays a
haunting tone and the creature takes a –2 status penalty
on saves against your Ring Bell for 1 round, or a –3 status
penalty on a critical hit. This effect has the auditory,
emotion, and mental traits.
Paragon Benefit
17th
With your mastery of your bell, you can affect many foes
with ease. All the condition values from Ring Bell increase
to 2 (or 3 on a critical failure). Ring Bell can trigger off
the Strike or spell of any enemy, not just the target of your
Exploit Vulnerability; however, in that case, the condition
lasts only until the start of your next turn.
CHALICE
Chalice implements are vessels that fill with liquid,
associating them with healing, nourishment, and life.
Your chalice might be a traditional cup or goblet, but
it could also be a small amphora, a polished gourd,
or even a hollowed-out skull. Chalice implements are
associated with the astrological signs of the mother and
the newlyweds, as well as the sea dragon.
Initiate Benefit
While holding your chalice, you can drink from it or feed
its liquid to an ally to improve their health. You gain the
Drink from the Chalice action.
DRINK FROM THE CHALICE [one-action]
MAGICAL
MANIPULATE
NECROMANCY
THAUMATURGE
Frequency once per round
Requirements You are holding your chalice implement.
You drink from the liquid that slowly collects in your chalice or
administer it to an adjacent ally. The drinker chooses whether
to take a small sip or to drain the contents.
• Sip A sip grants the drinker an amount of temporary Hit
Points equal to 2 + half your level that last until the end
of your next turn.
• Drain (healing, positive) Drinking deep instead heals the
drinker 3 Hit Points for each level you have. After the
chalice is drained, it’s left with only its slowly collecting
dregs; the chalice can’t be drained again, though it can
still be sipped from. If 10 minutes pass without anyone
drinking from the chalice, it refills itself and can be
drained again. If the drinker has negative healing, it can
still heal in this way, and the effect has the negative trait
instead of healing and positive.
Adept Benefit
7th
The life essence shed from blood empowers your chalice.
If you or an ally within 30 feet takes piercing or slashing
damage from a foe’s critical hit or takes persistent bleed
damage, Drinking from the Chalice before the end of your
next turn grants that injured creature greater restoration
to make up for its lost vitality. On a sip, the temporary
Hit Points granted to the creature increase to 2 + your
Charisma modifier + your level. When drained, the chalice
heals the creature 5 Hit Points for each level you have.
37
37
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
21551583
21551583
21551583
355 8
435578
435578
