paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
21551683
21551683
21551683
356 8
435678
435678
Introduction
The
Archivist’s
Training
Manual
The Stolen
Casefiles
Cryptids
Secret
Societies
Deviant
Abilities
Mirrors and
Imposters
Cults
Living Vessel
Archetype
Apocryphal
Domain
Spells
Cult Rituals
The Verdure
of Iblydos
Curses and
Pacts
Temporal
Anomalies
Mindscapes
Spell &
Item Lists,
Glossary &
Index
Dark
Archive
from whom they claim to be descended. With Aroden
dead, they’ve turned their worship to his former herald in
hopes that she will one day restore divine favor to their
beloved empire. After the failed Glorious Reclamation,
there has been need for Iomedaeans to become more
circumspect in Cheliax, and so the cult has grown.
Cult of the Unyielding
Arazni views those who would pray to her with little but
contempt, hence why this small Gebbite sect doesn’t bother.
Rather than worship the goddess of dignity or risk drawing
her ire by speaking her name, the Cult of the Unyielding
instead views their patron as a model for their own
behavior. This cult quietly thrives among the abused, the
neglected, and the forsaken—of which Geb, of course, has
no shortage. It is less an organization of worship than a set
of guidelines to survive the world’s brutality with dignity.
Each member is taught to prioritize their own dignity
above all else, and yet are expected to occasionally—when
it would not risk harm to themselves—step into the life of
another downtrodden soul to offer guidance in walking
the goddess’s path. These mentorships traditionally last for
only a year and a day, after which the two must part ways
whether the mentee believes themself ready or not.
THE RED MANTIS ASSASSINS
The Red Mantis is the second-most-infamous cult in
Golarion, though I doubt anyone would dare say that
to an initiate’s face. Assuming one could see it. Unlike
the underground cults or mysteries, the dread assassins
of Mediogalti Island protect themselves and their secrets
not through secrecy and stealth but through their
overwhelming and fearsome reputation.
The assassins’ policy of refusing contracts on rightful
rulers imitates their patron, Achaekek, and his refusal to
kill true divinities. He Who Walks in Blood seems too
busy enforcing divine punishment and being a bane of
would-be deities to pay any mind to his worshippers or
offer guidance. Instead, they model themselves on his
appearance and behavior, which serve as inspiration for
their serrated weapons, their penchant to take the promise
of a favor in lieu of payment, and the particularly bloody
aesthetics of their initiation rites.
The Red Mantis’ long history of death and violence
has placed the assassins among the most infamous
organizations on the planet. But we must ask: how much
of this dread reputation is the truth? Trickery is, after
all, counted among Achaekek’s domains, and the best
assassins are neither loose-lipped nor straightforward.
Might the policy of only appearing in public garbed in
the blood-red armor and insectile masks of their trade
serve as rather perfect misdirection? While potential
targets search frantically in every shadowed corner for
the twitch of a leather antenna, how simple would it be
for a stranger in plain clothes to slip up behind them and
do the deed themself?
Much fuss has been made over the Mantis’s ability to
contact potential clients rather than be sought out, but I
propose that the truth is much simpler than scrying spells
or even an intricate information network: the Red Mantis
appear to be everywhere because they are, hiding in plain
sight behind a mask of myth, more convincing than any
physical disguise. We on the outside can’t even be sure
that the current Blood Mistress, Jakalyn, is even the true
leader, or if she’s just an obvious figurehead to draw
attention from the cult’s shadowy masterminds.
OLD CULTS
These are inevitably the first thing to spring to most minds
whenever someone mentions cults. While I cannot fathom
why mortals would pray to a deity that barely notices
them and whose directed attentions would be disastrous
at best if it did, it cannot be argued that the Old Cults of
the Dark Tapestry infest the shady underside of almost
every culture on the planet, not unlike a stubborn mold.
The Cults of Yog-Sothoth
An illustrative example of an Old Cult is the worship the
Outer God Yog-Sothoth, an ambivalent being who exists
in all places and all moments simultaneously. Thankfully,
Yog-Sothoth is unable to manifest in the mortal universe
unless summoned, though less thankfully, his cults often
attempt to do just that through occult ritual or profane
sacrifice. Isolated individuals, or at best small cells,
each striving to attract the attention of something from
beyond the stars in exchange for a boon—knowledge of
the truth of our universe, in this case—that wiser minds
would know is better left unsought.
INITIATION RITUALS
Initiation rites are a defining feature of mystery
cults, though they also feature in other sects,
including the Red Mantis. These tend to be the most
well known of a cult’s rites, as they are the only
ones in which it is possible to fail or bow out before
reaching the sacred vows of secrecy.
For example, it’s known even to outsiders that
new initiates to the Red Mantis must subject
themselves to many years of arduous training
before being ritually submerged in a baptism of
animal blood. Upon emerging from this, they’re
immediately armed with a sawtooth saber and must
fight one of their fellow initiates to the death. Only
after surviving this rite are they permitted to take
their final oaths and don the mantis-shaped mask,
believing themselves to have been reborn in blood,
much like their god.
The initiation rituals of other cults tend to be a
little less violent, but all generally embody similar
themes of exiting or ending one’s normal life to
devote themselves to a higher purpose.
137
137
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
21551683
21551683
21551683
356 8
435678
435678
