paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
21551656
21551656
21551656
3565
435651
435651
physical mutation—one brother grew a second, fanged
mouth over his heart that spits bolts of lightning.”
These abilities are hurting people? “In a lot of cases,
yes. These abilities are sometimes powerful, and the
newfound power can overwhelm the person. Many
people manifest an ability and almost immediately fall
comatose. In other cases, the ability is unleashed in
a destructive manner that hurts the person and others
around them. One traveler began to unintentionally
throw things about their guest room as they were unable
to control their new telekinetic abilities. Even for those
who survive the initial awakening, their newfound
abilities are often incapacitating and unstable.”
What’s in the tunnels below the castle? “Any number of
things. The chambers have been used over generations as
storage, dormitories, libraries, and more. Since the
tunnel network appears to be massive, there could
be any number of different chambers below. The
area where you’re going appears to have been
used as burial chambers. The bulette seemed
to have dug into the tunnels by chance and
even appeared to be carving out a den
for itself. I would work under the
assumption that it’s still living
in the den and won’t take kindly
to visitors.”
Who is coming with us? “I’m
sending a few of our monks with
you. Some of them are already
downstairs, the rest will lead you
down to the appropriate area. I
have to remain here to tend to
some of the ill.”
Once the PCs are ready, a
trio of Yllaldo monks lead the
PCs down into the tunnels.
CHAMBER FEATURES
The stone tunnel and chamber
walls here were all carved by Yllaldo
during the keep’s original creation.
Unless otherwise noted, the ceilings
for all tunnels and chambers are 20
feet tall. The walls feature a regular
pattern of glimmering bas-relief
stars along the wall; while this
glimmer isn’t enough to light a
chamber on its own, touching a
star with an Interact action causes
all the stars in a chamber to glow
brighter, filling the given chamber
with dim light. Touching the star
again deactivates this light. All
doors are made from large, heavy
stone (Hardness 21, HP 84, BT
42), but open as easily as any
simple door. The doors don’t have an obvious locking
mechanism, but they do have a magical means of locking
and unlocking via a spoken command. Though the monks
normally share this command with guests and visitors,
their distraction in the ongoing crisis means they don’t
think to share it with the PCs immediately, forcing the
PCs to have to learn it themselves (or remind an available
monk). A character that recognizes that a door is magical
and succeeds at a DC 20 check to Identify Magic can
learn the command word, which is the same for all the
doors in this wing of the complex.
A1. ENTRYWAY
LOW 6
The monks lead the PCs deeper and deeper into the keep
for a few minutes before the band arrives at the entrance
to this wing of chambers. The monks note a set of
obvious guides along the floor that the PCs can use
to return to the surface if they need. When the
PCs arrive, read or paraphrase the following.
A large pair of stone doors, set with a carved star,
is the only feature in the otherwise empty hallway.
One monk proceeds toward the door,
intent on leading the group inside,
but just as she reaches out, she lets
out an anguished cry. Two more
pained screams follow, as all three
monks drop to their knees, erupting
in flames. The cries grow quiet as the
flames seem to burn away what life
remains in the monks. A moment later,
the monks’ bodies rise, still burning on
despite being exhausted of fuel. They howl in
pain as they reach out to attack!
Creatures:
The
monks’
constant
exposure to the power of Nolimarthos’s
jawbone finally ignites, quite literally.
The three each gain a deviant ability
related to manipulating fire… but become
immediately overwhelmed by it and die as
they are consumed in its power. This fiery
death combined with the power of the
jawbone’s tone causes the three monks to
immediately rise as combusted—corpses
that suffer eternal burning in their new
unlife. The combusted attack the nearest
target, keeping their distance from any
PCs that make use of ice or water abilities, such
as ray of frost or hydraulic push spells. The trio
unleash their Blazing Howl whenever available.
BURNING MONKS (3)
CREATURE 4
Elite combusted (Pathfinder Book of the Dead
80, Pathfinder Bestiary 6)
Initiative Perception +8
110
110
Edibaro Jolínarez
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
21551656
21551656
21551656
3565
435651
435651
