paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
21551680
21551680
21551680
356 5
435675
435675
Village of the Lost
Incident Location: Nixqiquan, Icemark, Land of the
Linnorm Kings, Avistan
Incident Type: Impostor
Reporting Archivist: Unahk Two-Blood
Bjersig,
I’ve finally reached the Varki village of Nixqiquan as
requested. Strangely, no one here seems to recall requesting
aid from the Pathfinder Society, and my inquiries into
the missing villagers mentioned in the request resulted
in nothing but curious stares and shrugs. Despite their
apparent confusion at our team’s arrival, the people here
are nonetheless friendly and welcoming, having prepared
a lodging for us to spend the evening, along with food and
drink. I can’t shake the suspicion that something is amiss.
Day 2
Day 2
We were awakened last night by a horrible
ruckus. My old bloodhound, Druthers,
apparently snuck out of our wagon to lie
outside the door of our borrowed shelter, only
to awaken us in the lightless morning hours
with a terrible baying and frantic growls.
Grabbing my cloak and club, I threw open the
door to find Druthers with his hackles raised.
Several villagers stood nearby, concerned
for our wellbeing but unwilling to approach
my fearsome protector. I managed to calm
Druthers and return him to the wagon, securing
his leash to a mounting bolt so he could leave no
farther than his resting spot beneath the open
gate. I hate to keep the old boy cooped up, but it’s in his best
interest until I can find out what got him so riled up.
Most of the villagers were in the coastal waters by the
time the sun rose, using their sleek kayaks to fish and pull up
crab pots. I’ve given our drover and the other expeditionary
members leave to accompany the villagers on their daily
outings as long as they report back regularly.
Day 3
Day 3
A deep cold settled in during the evening. The fact that
Druthers didn’t climb into the wagon to warm himself
should have made me realize something was wrong, but
the chill brings on a deep sleep and strong desire to stay
beneath a blanket’s warmth. I found our faithful hound
dead beneath the wagon this morning, a dart in the old
boy’s neck. The villagers claim not to recognize the weapon,
though they’re oddly reticent to come anywhere near
Druthers’s body.
The ground is hard from the frost and the sunlight thin,
filtered through a haze of gray clouds. While the drovers
and other members of the expedition went to sea to help
pull in the evening’s meal, I chipped away with axe and
shovel, trying to dig a decent grave for my companion
of so many journeys, but with little success. By the time
everyone returned from their fishing and crabbing, I’d
scarcely managed to carve out a hole a foot deep, three feet
long, and two feet wide—not sufficient to protect Druthers’s
remains from the animals and elements, so for now I’ve
placed my friend under a blanket at the wagon’s gate.
Sorry, boy. I knew you were getting too old and this might
be a dangerous trip. I should have left you at Iceferry,
where you could play with Mahki and the sled dogs.
Day 4
Day 4
I know now what the face of evil looks like. I was
awakened by a terrible scream as a creature,
part man and part otter, attempted to slip into my
wagon. It tripped over Druthers’s blanket-shrouded
body and the slightest contact seemed to cause it
immense pain. As I grabbed my blade and rushed
forward, I realized the wagon was surrounded. These
things have taken all my compatriots, and likely the
entire village as well.
Snatching up Druthers’s body, I retreated further into
the wagon to scribe this final entry in my log. I believe
these creatures to be the kushtaka spoken of in Varki
fireside tales, the “land otters”that steal mortals’ souls
and transform the bodies into more of their kind. I
wept as I fashioned Druthers’s thigh bone into a crude
knife, but if what I recall of the stories is true, no other
weapon in my possession will be able to harm the creatures.
I send this via a magically called messenger owl, hoping
it reaches you. Warn Nankou and the Varki! Nixqiquan is
lost and I fear for Icemark itself if these creatures expand
their reach farther inland. As soon as I finish this letter, I
shall attempt to fight my way free. Watch over me one last
time, Druthers. I need you now more than ever.
DOG-BONE KNIFE
ITEM 5
UNCOMMON
ABJURATION
MAGICAL
Price 150 gp
Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk 1
The blade of this +1 striking dagger is made from the thigh
bone of a canine that died in the act of protecting its
master. A werecreature or other creature willingly under
the effects of a non-permanent polymorph effect damaged
by a dog‑bone knife must attempt a DC 19 Will save or
immediately revert to its natural form—this has no effect
on a creature unwillingly polymorphed. On a successful
save, the creature is temporarily immune to this effect for 1
minute. Kushtakas and other creatures vulnerable to canines
take a –2 circumstance penalty to saves against this effect,
and this weapon overcomes any resistance such creatures
have to physical attacks.
Dog-Bone Knife
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
21551680
21551680
21551680
356 5
435675
435675
