paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
21551657
21551657
21551657
3565
435652
435652
Introduction
The
Archivist’s
Training
Manual
The Stolen
Casefiles
Cryptids
Secret
Societies
Deviant
Abilities
Deviant
Abilities
Deviant
Spells
A Song of
Making and
Unmaking
Mirrors and
Imposters
Cults
Curses and
Pacts
Temporal
Anomalies
Mindscapes
Spell &
Item Lists,
Glossary &
Index
Dark
Archive
Ignition: Once the combusted are destroyed, the power
of Nolimarthos’s jawbone begins to affect the PCs. As
they catch their breath, the PCs feel an alien vibration
within their own bodies. What at first feels like a light hum
quickly grows into a shiver and then an overwhelming
but inaudible tone that the PCs feel throughout their own
bodies. The tone catalyzes the awakening of a deviant
ability. Each PC must attempt a DC 30 Fortitude save.
On a failure, the PC falls unconscious for 1d4 rounds, or
1 minute on a critical failure. The PCs end up unharmed
regardless, as they’re able to otherwise endure the process
and manifest their own set of new deviant abilities as a
result. Grant each PC one deviant power from the deviant
power system earlier in this chapter—this can be either a
2nd-level power with an awakening, or a 6th-level power
with no awakening. Grant each PC two quirks as well;
one should be the musical notation quirk, representing the
strange tone that their powers stem from, and the second
should be unique to the PC. Try to give your players
abilities that don’t necessarily match their backstory or
character theme to underscore the anomalous nature of
the powers.
The PCs might be in shock at this development. They
might take a few moments to assess their situation, testing
out their abilities. They might even consider returning to
meet with Edibaro, explaining the unfortunate death of
the monks and the strange development of new abilities.
While Edibaro is distraught at the loss of more of his
order, he remains focused on the task at hand. He sees the
PCs’ new abilities as a boon; since the PCs are (seemingly)
able to control their new abilities to a much greater
extent than the others, Edibaro believes it will give the
PCs an edge when facing the other dangers that might lie
beneath the keep. He encourages the PCs to push on but
understands if they need some time to come to terms with
their changes. When the PCs are ready, they can continue
further into the chambers.
A2. TOMB
Several stone coffins lie along the length of this large chamber.
Each coffin appears ancient but bears carvings and decorations
that remain relatively intact. A set of doors in the northern
and southern walls lead out of the room. Larger doors allow
passage to east and west.
While Yllaldo the Manifester didn’t originally have
plans for the chambers beneath the keep, it wasn’t long
after his death that other inhabitants began making use of
the rooms. This room became one of many tombs beneath
the keep, honoring notable local figures. The identities of
the dead here have been lost to time, but the countless
generations of castle residents have done much to help
maintain the coffins.
Magical Ward: As they retreated from this area,
the Order of Yllaldo performed a ritual to seal off
the doors that allow further access to the chambers
beyond. The ritual created a magical shield of force that
prevents contact with the door. The shield is a 10th-level
abjuration effect. The shield has 100 Hit Points and
recovers 10 Hit Points every round it’s not destroyed.
Additionally, attempts to damage the shield are likely
ineffective, as anything less powerful than a +2 weapon
or other 10th‑level effect is unable to damage the shield.
If a character takes the time to study the shield, they can
learn about the shield’s nature with a successful DC 27
check to Identify Magic.
The PCs are likely to have a difficult time with making
it past the shield, but they luckily have a different means
of bypassing it: two magical foci that act as keys, created
when the shield was raised. The monks in rooms A3 and
A4 each have one of these keys. Once the PCs touch both
keys to the shield, it dissipates instantly, allowing access
to the door and the rooms beyond.
A3. LIBRARY
MODERATE 6
Several large stone tables stand in this room, each spaced
evenly. Shelves built into the wall hold hundreds of books,
several of which lie open on the central tables. Doors in the
southwestern and southeastern part of the wall lead in and
out of this room.
The books in this room were collected by the multiple
generations of castle inhabitants. As a result, the volumes
here cover a variety of disparate and unrelated topics.
The monks usually grab books from here and take them
upstairs to read and study, thus forgoing the need for
chairs in this room.
Creatures: Ximena and Adabero, two warrior
monks, were waiting to be relieved by other members
of the order, as well as the PCs. Much like the others,
the demonic jawbone’s tone eventually sparked deviant
abilities in both of them; however, these monks survived
the awakening of their abilities—Ximena gained a
perfectly cylindrical dimensional portal in the palm of
her hand that emits blasts of freezing arctic wind, while
Adabero can discorporate his body into fractal patterns
of roiling smoke and ash. The shock of the new abilities
has left them disoriented and hostile, causing them to
attack anyone that enters this room, including the PCs
or any other monks, using their new powers as often as
they are able.
If the PCs manage to subdue the monks, either by
knocking them unconscious or other means, they are
both more lucid once they come back to their senses and
are quick to apologize once they have the opportunity.
They can explain the details on the magical wards in
room A2, including the fact that the keys can dispel the
shield. They also offer their key to the PCs and note that
the other monks should have the other key. If the PCs
ask the monks to join them, they follow along until the
111
111
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
21551657
21551657
21551657
3565
435652
435652
