paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
21551700
21551700
21551700
35695
435695
435695
The Missing Moment
Incident Location: Ruwido, Ustalav, Avistan
Incident Type: Hiatus
Reporting Archivist: Vennick Swyth
Archivist’s Note:
Archivist’s Note: Dr. Ritalson was a most accommodating
host and gracious interview subject. Despite how his tone may
come across in this transcription, I found the man to be quite
avuncular, perhaps even likable. Keeping this in mind, Dr.
Ritalson’s frequent asides, digressions, and diatribes
made accurate transcription difficult, to
say the least. I’ve done my best
to render our lengthy conversation
here as truthfully as possible,
but the way Ritalson warped
and weaved the threads of our
conversation make it practically
impossible to truly capture the
discussion’s exhilarating spirit.
Also, please don’t mistake my
characterization of the subject as
“likable” to mean he is benign—we’ve every reason
to suspect the doctor is more than he seems, though this
is obviously pure speculation. Whatever the case, Ritalson is
clearly a man of genius and one we should not take lightly.
INTERVIEW LOG
If you want the short version—something punchy to tell your
colleagues at the Archive—then here it is: One moment, I
was tending my garden on the outskirts of town. The next,
a blinding light knocked me to the dirt. I saw in the light
myself, only not as I am now, but as a lad, young and
spry. Can you blame me for walking toward that gorgeous
mirror that looked back in time? Whatever. The next thing
I knew, it was night. I hadn’t moved an inch, far as
I could tell. I was still standing in my garden but I
immediately collapsed from fatigue, like I hadn’t eaten or
slept in weeks. When I managed to crawl down the muddy
hill toward my manor, Nanci came out to see what was the
matter. Her face was paler than the sheets hung on her
line. I’d been missing for 23 days.
If you want the long version, well, let me put on another pot
of tea. I’ve gathered my notes and relevant day log entries
here. [The doctor motioned to a tremendous pile of pristinely
organized folios and journals.] It was a gray day, thick
and muggy; my weather instruments sweated from the
unseasonable humidity, though it hadn’t rained in more
than a moon. My neighbor up the hill, Nanci, was beating
and scrubbing the week’s laundry.
Of course, I’m not the only one to have experienced this
so-called “missing moment,” as you and other pseudo-
intellectuals have taken to calling it. There exist many others
just like me, whom I’ve dubbed “gatewalkers.” (You and your
other archivists aren’t the only ones who can be clever now
and then, eh? I’m sorry. Though I jape at your expense,
I rather liked your idea of interviewing me. In fact, I’ve
borrowed your methodology and have arranged to conduct
some interviews myself, with my fellow gatewalkers as the
subjects. Who knows what secrets might be plumbed from
the psyches of my fellow miscreants? I’ll of course send you
my transcripts as a token of my appreciation.)
Ah yes, the compass. Well, in the aftermath of the “Night
of the Missing Moment”—again, where do you people come
up with these names?—I’ve taken to studying teleportation,
gates, aiudaras,
aiudaras, and every subject on translocation. I’ve
long been interested in paranormal phenomena of this nature,
but to be the subject of it myself, well! My
interest, it’s safe to say, has gone from
the realm of mere curiosity to utmost
fascination.
The compass is a trinket
I scrapped together in spare
moments during my research,
just something I stumbled upon, a
byproduct really. Here, you can keep
it if you wish. Rather curious little thing,
though I’ve doubts you’ll ever find a use for it.
I suppose it may as well collect dust in your archive rather
than mine. Though, who knows? As you and I are both
aware, strange things do happen.
[The interview subject insisted I keep the compass he
described, which is included with this transcript; see
Appendix I: Supporting Evidence. The interview terminated
shortly afterward.]
COMPASS OF TRANSPOSITIONAL AWARENESS	 ITEM 10
RARE
CONJURATION
INVESTED
MAGICAL
TELEPORTATION
Price 950 gp
Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk L
The silver face of this glass-encased compass is etched with
dozens of esoteric symbols, obscure icons, and inscrutable
abbreviations.
Activate [one-action] concentrate, Interact; Frequency once per minute;
Effect You point the compass of transpositional awareness
at an extant teleportation effect (such as a magical portal)
or the site of a teleportation effect that existed within the
last 1 minute (such as the space where a creature just cast
dimension door). Attempt an Occultism check to determine
to where the effect leads or led. The DC of this check is
the effect’s counteract DC. On a success, you know roughly
the destination of the teleportation effect (for example “the
Plane of Fire,” “north,” or “Avistan”). On a critical success,
you ascertain the exact destination within mere feet for
local effects (such as dimension door) or within a few miles
for long-range effects (such as teleport, plane shift, or
interdimensional portals).
Activate [one-action] Frequency once per day; Effect You use the
compass of transpositional awareness to triangulate your
current coordinates and the coordinates of your intended
destination using teleportation magic. For 1 minute,
whenever you cast a teleportation spell that has a range,
increase that spell’s range by 30 feet. If the spell normally
has a range of touch, extend its range to 30 feet.
Ritalson’s Compass
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
21551700
21551700
21551700
35695
435695
435695
