paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
21551755
21551755
21551755
35 50
435750
435750
Introduction
The
Archivist’s
Training
Manual
The Stolen
Casefiles
Cryptids
Secret
Societies
Deviant
Abilities
Mirrors and
Imposters
Cults
Curses and
Pacts
Temporal
Anomalies
Mindscapes
Mindscape
Statistics
Psychic
Duels
Psychic
Duelist
Archetype
Mind Smith
Archetype
Sleepwalker
Archetype
The Last
Dream
Spell &
Item Lists,
Glossary &
Index
Dark
Archive
Information check around town to learn more; a success
turns up rumors that there once was a scholar with an
armadillo mask, an anadi, who specialized in the study
of dreams and memory at the Magaambya, but he passed
away a few years ago. Luckily, his grandson Kedari
yet resides in Nantambu, and is likewise a student at
the Magaambya.
A PC who succeeds at a DC 28 Society check can learn
that the mask matching the bead was likely made by a
Magaambyan scholar of attendant rank, who likely then
kept the mask throughout their academic career. The
mask has a strong divination aura.
VISITING THE MAGAAMBYA
The party can locate
Kedari (NG
male anadi conversant) in one of the
Magaambya’s libraries, perusing scrolls
with his classmate and fiancé, Ieme
(CN male human conversant). The
stranger-shy Kedari adopts his humanoid
form quickly at the sight of unexpected
visitors. At first, when inquired about his
grandfather, Kedari denies knowing
anything about his research, but his
evasive attitude changes once the
party shows him the bead.
Kedari’s jaw goes slack. “I don’t
believe it! I thought Grandpa was
covering my eyes with Grandmother
Spider’s web the entire time.” Looking
at the bead, Kedari pulls a turquoise
armadillo mask from his pack. “The magic
still pulses, how amazing... may I?” He reaches out for the
bead, which fits perfectly into a notch on the mask’s ear.
Once the PCs hand the bead over, Kedari will happily
answer any questions they have to the best of his abilities.
How did the bead end up with us? “According to
Grandpa, he used to work with some detective or hunter
or something like that, this Avistani-Tian man. He never
spoke much about the man, but he’d always tell stories
about scouring his research to help with a cursed tree or
demonic animal or what have you... honestly, the stories
would change a bit every time he told them. Anyway,
after the last job they did—something about haunted
rain, where he nearly lost his neck—he and the man went
out drinking around Nantambu to celebrate. He said he
gave the man that bead as a thanks for saving his neck all
those times over the years.”
What research did your grandfather do? “He worked on
what the Cascade Bearers call a Memory Realm.” Kedari
draws a circle with his hands as he describes. “The Uzunjati
branch prefer to call it the Storybook. Functionally, they
are the same. Think of it like... a demiplane that everyone
has inside them, made out of their memories.”
Can you help us access this man’s memory
realm? Kedari becomes extremely excited at the
idea of continuing his grandfather’s research.
“Actually, with this bead, I can! It’s been a while
since I read Grandpa’s research, but that bead is
almost certainly what he used to access the man’s
memory realm in the first place. I’ll need to modify
the ritual a bit, though...” Kedari looks to Ieme,
who nods supportively. With confidence,
the scholar snaps his fingers. “Let’s get
started! I’ll write up a list of books
we’ll need to retrieve.”
THE PROJECTION RITUAL
By cross-referencing the theories
in his grandfather’s research with
magical runes etched within the
bead itself, Kedari and Ieme extrapolate
the ritual that Elaro likely used to help the
Lone Archivist access his own personal memory
realm. Given the close association of dreams and memory,
Kedari deduces the entrance to any memory realm can be
located in the Dimension of Dreams, as long as sufficient
emotional guidance is provided at the moment of casting,
here in the form of the bead Elaro gave K.H.W. many
years ago. However, modifying the ritual will require a
few extra steps, which the PCs can help out with.
PCs can assist in the research effort with a successful DC
30 Arcana or Occultism check or a successful DC 28 Lore
check related to the Astral Plane or another planar subject.
Other PCs can search the city of Nantambu for rare dream
spider silk, a crucial component for the modified ritual,
which they can locate with a successful DC 30 Diplomacy
or Society check or a successful DC 28 Mercantile Lore
or Guild Lore check to locate a well-connected seller.
Once the PCs locate a vendor, Kedari is more than happy
to provide the funds necessary to purchase the silk from
his Cascade-Bearer stipend, as the ritual represents an
important piece of research into his family’s magical
theories. A PC can attempt only one check; if two or more
PCs succeed, then their aid empowers the ritual crossing,
granting all PCs a +1 status bonus to their checks in the
ABOUT THIS ADVENTURE
Recommended Level: Party of four 12th-level
characters.
The adventure begins with the PCs traveling
to Nantambu, where they must seek the aid of
a magical specialist to aid them in entering the
Storybook, a personal mindscape created by the
Lone Archivist. Breaking through the mindscape’s
defenses, they find themselves in a strange location
where they will have to sift through and confront
the Archivist’s memories to gain access to the last
secret of the Dark Archive.
209
209
Kedari
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
21551755
21551755
21551755
35 50
435750
435750
