paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
21551619
21551619
21551619
356
435614
435614
On the Topic of the Twin
Village
Incident Location: Podinhi Village, Johar Mountains,
western Vudra
Incident Type: Keystone (possible qualities of Shadow
type, pending further investigation)
Reporting Archivist: Imshaidi Jikhtari
The following is an excerpt from an interview with a
man named Sawis, whom I found waiting patiently for
me upon my arrival.
Imshaidi Jikhtari: Do you know who I am? And why
I’m here?
Sawis: I only know what Shrivan told me: he
spoke with you in the streets of Niswan, and
you wanted to come study our home. Is that
about right, Pathfinder?
Jikhtari: I don’t know that “study” is quite
the correct term. It’s more I want to learn
about Podinhi with your help, though I come
here with the most respectful of intentions.
Sawis: As you say, Pathfinder. What do
you want to know?
Jikhtari: Your twin, Shrivan,
told me everyone is born a twin
in this village, and you’re
able to speak with each
other in your dreams. This
is true?
Sawis: So it is. Every time
there’s a birth, there are
twins. Sometimes even double twins, though
that’s rarer.
Jikhtari: And you’re all able to cast dream magic?
Sawis: No, Pathfinder, we don’t cast any spells. We
aren’t wizards or psychics. We simply talk. Just like
you and I are talking now.
Jikhtari: I see. How often do you talk with Shrivan?
Sawis: About as often as anybody would talk to
family, I suppose: a couple nights a week, more if
something special is happening, less if we’re busy.
The normal amount.
Jikhtari: Of course, normal. You do understand that,
normally, most people aren’t born as twins, let alone twins
who can speak to each other in dreams, yes?
Sawis: Normal depends on the person. For you,
maybe it’s strange. For us, it’s part of life. Just like
traveling across the world to talk to someone might
be normal for you but seems strange to me.
Jikhtari: Well, I suppose I can’t dispute that claim. Tell
me, do you know the source of your birth, your abilities?
Sawis: The source is just us, Pathfinder. There’s no
special reason—it simply is. Though in the past,
some have given a name to it: “dohtsaeka.”
Jikhtari: Dohtsaeka? I’ve studied the dialect, but I’m
afraid I don’t know that word.
Sawis: It’s a little difficult to explain. It’s like being
together. It means a bond so strong it remains
intact no matter how far you pull it. It means two
people who are separate but are also one.
Jikhtari: That is rather touching. It seems like there’s
no shortage of learning for me. Do you think the rest of the
village would be amenable to talking to me?
Sawis: Shrivan believes you mean no
harm and that should be enough
for them. He’s often quite right
about those sorts of things. In
the meantime, you’re welcome to
stay here. There’s plenty of room
and Asmani will be excited to
learn you’re here. She’s
always wanted to talk to a
Pathfinder.
Jikhtari: I’d be happy to
oblige such a request.
Asmani is your partner,
I presume? Will she be
returning soon?
Sawis: That would be
surprising, she’s dead.
Jikhtari: Oh. I’m sorry for your
loss. How, then, do you intend on telling
her? Can you dream speak with her too?
Sawis: Don’t be ridiculous—she’s my wife, not my
sister! No, I write letters for her sister Kantika to
read at night and Kantika writes down her replies.
Jikhtari: One could almost say it’s like she never left.
Sawis: I told you, Pathfinder. The distance doesn’t
matter—it’s dohtsaeka.
CHILD OF THE TWIN VILLAGE
BACKGROUND
RARE
You were born in a village where everyone has a twin with a
special link. You have moved to the wider world for reasons
of your own, but you still have an unbreakable connection to
your twin through your dreams.
Choose two ability boosts. One must be to Constitution or
Charisma, and one is a free ability boost.
You’re trained in Diplomacy and Dreamlands Lore. You gain
the ability to communicate with your twin in your dreams. You
and your twin gain the effects of dream message every night,
only between the two of you; this isn’t a spell, but a natural
effect. Unless your twin is another PC, your GM roleplays your
twin or summarizes your interaction during these dreams.
Sawis & Shrivan
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
21551619
21551619
21551619
356
435614
435614
