paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
21551600
21551600
21551600
35595
435595
435595
At night in Absalom, on a leisure excursion no less,
I caught sight of the Walker. It was in the form of a
woman, and only in the brief torchlight did I catch her
too-wide eyes and too-sharp teeth. I cleared my eyes
and the figure was gone. Vexing. Had I more time, I
would have gladly pursued this thread personally. Alas,
we handed the assignment to another archivist
who seemed delighted at “not having
to go somewhere too weird
this time.” The strange
creature has many names
across many continents.
Reported
sightings
are
erratic,
but
compound,
the swirling rumors only
reinforcing,
maybe
even
manifesting, its presence.
I left the next day for
Riddleport.
It
happens
the
previous encounter we’d had
with the Walker took place there,
and somewhere in my bones I knew
we’d find it there again. A rash of
disappearances, often late at night,
and always just off major streets.
Our initial suspect was a particularly
irate spirit or some such, but, increasingly,
bodies began turning up torn apart, missing limbs,
tucked into with voracious bites. Every one of the
victims seemed to have struggled. Too earthly to have
been a vengeful ghost but too personal to have been a
simple monster—the circumference of the bite marks
indicated a humanoid mouth.
By happenstance, we encountered it one night in
Oppara, catching its erratically long limbs leading up
to a face completely devoid of features, save for the
vague suggestion of a woman’s mouth. We attempted
to apprehend the creature but were caught unaware by
its preternatural strength and sent flying. It bolted, legs
growing longer and longer with each stride.
ANGLER
Many times, we’re sent to investigate a string of
disappearances, especially if traditional investigations
turn up little of value. How people can continue to
simply vanish in some of the most populated and
well-monitored areas in the world is concerning. It’s
important to keep one ear listening to the choir of
rumor, especially in places so densely populated. It’s in
those stories where we begin to narrow the scope of
investigation to something more tangible. In rare cases,
those rumors might cause the creature to manifest, or
perhaps to metamorphose into something more.
In this case, we were in Sothis, where gossip
spreads like a disease. A popular bedtime story told
to misbehaving children concerned a spirit that would
cry for help, luring unsuspecting victims, only to drag
them to the underworld. It was by sheer chance we
heard this for ourselves, on a late night patrol through
the winding streets. Though the sun had long since set,
the city was still alive with lights and festivity, tables
flooding from the cafes and bars into the
streets, where workers enjoyed their drinks.
It’s places like this where we feel at ease
and most reminded of the importance of
our work.
Only when we had broken off into
deeper and darker alleys did we hear those
haunting cries. Not screams. Lilting,
moaning cries. Encounters with even
the mundane creatures of our world,
like the Howling Banshees Incident,
harden
us
to
the
monstrous,
even the strange. But nothing
haunts more than the sounds
we hear from the mouths of
ordinary people.
It took some work to
trace—the
sounds
came
indistinctly from a distance, but we
located a route, albeit complicated, to the
remnants of an underground laboratory.
Boards intended to seal the entrance had long since rotted
out. All the while, the cries became louder, sometimes
changing pitch, age, anything to get someone to notice
them. When we came up on the creature, a handful of the
younger archivists turned away, nauseated. Piles upon
piles of human bones. A writhing mass of withered flesh
sitting between, like so many worms spreading across
the ground, with countless signs of experimentation—
bolted-on alchemical devices, patches of scarred skin,
and marks from needles, blades, and more. It was clear
what had happened here and what it cost.
Archivist Nailah, an Osirian born during the
Palemoon Crisis, skimmed through what records were
intact enough to salvage. It’s no secret that fragile
mortals seek the embrace of immortality, unable to
envision the end to their time on the Material Plane. In
the process of pursuing such things, creatures like this
result, an attempt to emulate the power of the gods and
bring new life into the world. Some attempts are more
successful than others.
By many measures, the Angler was a success. It seemed
to have been alive for a very, very long time. Even as we
operated around it, it never stopped the cries, perhaps
belonging to the countless people it had feasted on. It
wasn’t very nimble, but it was strong. It took Archivist
Ulf, big even by orc standards, and two others to secure
it while we worked. But ultimately, it knew only how to
prolong itself in twisted eternity, and had long outlived
its purpose, maybe even consumed those who created it.
Mere speculation.
54
54
The Walker (local child’s depiction)
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
21551600
21551600
21551600
35595
435595
435595
