paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
21551729
21551729
21551729
35
435724
435724
Introduction
The
Archivist’s
Training
Manual
The Stolen
Casefiles
Cryptids
Secret
Societies
Deviant
Abilities
Mirrors and
Imposters
Cults
Curses and
Pacts
Temporal
Anomalies
Temporal
Spells
Time Mage
Archetype
Chronoskimmer
Archetype
Time Oracle
Mystery
Tomorrow’s
Feast
Mindscapes
Spell &
Item Lists,
Glossary &
Index
Dark
Archive
roll, Perception check, saving throw, or skill check, it
gets a 10 instead.
•	 Fortune The fortune stands before you with its golden
horns and moth-scale wings, a sly smirk on its elfin face;
Arrive (chaotic, divination, fortune, prediction) Decree
the Chaos of Infinity While within 30 feet of the fortune,
you and your allies roll twice and take the higher roll on
all damage rolls, Perception checks, and saving throws;
Depart (divination, misfortune, prediction) Sunder
Eternity’s Authority Each enemy within a 30-foot
emanation must attempt a Will save. A creature that
fails its save must roll twice and take the lower result
on all damage rolls, Perception checks, and saving
throws until the end of its next turn.
SUSPENDED RETRIBUTION
SPELL 6
CURSE
DIVINATION
MENTAL
PREDICTION
Traditions divine, occult
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal
Range 60 feet; Targets 1 creature
Saving Throw basic Reflex; Duration 1 minute
All life dances one step from the precipice, one heartbeat
from disaster. You open your eyes wide and see doom
waiting in the wings, then invite it to step forward. A
spectral omen of disaster appears above the target’s head—
traditionally, this is a downward-pointing sword, but some
spellcasters report seeing a hangman’s noose or a grinning
skull instead. When you Cast this Spell, pick one of the
following triggers.
•	 The target moves more than its Speed in a single round.
•	 The target makes more than one Strike in a single round.
•	 The target Casts a Spell.
•	 The target uses a specific skill you name.
•	 The target uses a specific ability you name.
If the target takes the triggering action, the portent of
doom activates—the sword strikes down, the noose loops
around the target’s neck, the skull bares its fangs—and the
target takes 70 mental damage with a basic Reflex save. The
target instinctively knows which action will trigger the omen
and can ward off the omen by spending a total of 3 actions,
which have the concentrate trait, to pray, make signs against
doom, or similar apotropaic actions. These actions need not
be consecutive. After the creature spends the actions, the
spell ends.
Heightened (+1) The damage increases by 10.
TEMPORAL TWIN
SPELL 3
UNCOMMON
CONJURATION
Traditions arcane, occult
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal
Range 30 feet; Targets one willing ally
Duration until the end of your next turn
You pull a fleeting duplicate of your ally from the recent past.
The duplicate appears in an unoccupied space of your choice
within 30 feet of you and repeats a basic single action the
target took since the end of your last turn, such as making
a Strike or Interacting to pull a lever. Because the other
basic single actions don’t produce much of a result on their
own, this is typically used for Strike and Interact, though
occasionally it could be useful to have a temporal twin Stride
through a potentially dangerous area to expose a hazard.
The target ally spends a reaction to create the duplicate,
makes any decisions, and rolls for the repeated action, such
as choosing a target for a Strike and making the attack roll.
If the ally doesn’t have a reaction to spend, temporal twin
fails. Use the duplicate’s location for determining flanking,
cover, and the like. Using this spell requires remembering
what your ally did, and if you don’t remember the details, the
GM might not allow you to cast temporal twin.
This action can’t be used for anything but a basic single
action (Core Rulebook 469), nor can it use limited resources.
The action can have a different target than the original action
but must be very similar in form. For example, if the original
action were to Interact to pull a lever, the time duplicate
could pull a different lever, but couldn’t turn a doorknob or
pick up an item from a table.
Being pulled through time to create a twin destabilizes
the target’s timeline. Once an ally has been the target of
temporal twin, they’re temporarily immune for 1 day.
TIME POCKET
SPELL 3
TRANSMUTATION
Traditions arcane, occult
Cast 1 minute (material, somatic, verbal)
Range touch; Targets one item of 1 Bulk or less that a willing
creature is holding
Duration until the next time you make your daily preparations
You fling the target item forward in time and link it to the
future of the creature holding it. The item disappears. When
the spell ends, the item reappears with the creature that
was holding it when you Cast the Spell. If the creature has
enough hands free to hold the item, it appears in their hands.
Otherwise, it falls to the ground in the creature’s space.
You can Dismiss the spell, and it automatically ends if you’re
reduced to 0 Hit Points or cast time pocket again.
TIME SENSE
CANTRIP 1
DIVINATION
Traditions arcane, occult
Cast [one-action] verbal
When you Cast the Spell, you gain a perfect sense of time. You
can learn exactly what time it is, down to the second. You can
instead choose to gain a perfect sense of the calendar if you
have knowledge in that area—if you’re trained in Nature, you
can learn exactly how long it is until sunrise and how many
days until the next solstice. If you’re trained in Astronomy
Lore, you can learn precisely when any known predictable
astronomical conjunction will begin and end, and so on.
You can gain a +1 status bonus to one attack roll, Perception
check, saving throw, or skill check you take on the same turn
you cast time sense that requires extremely precise timing. If
you choose to gain this bonus, you can’t gain it again for 1 hour.
183
183
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
21551729
21551729
21551729
35
435724
435724
