paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
21551614
21551614
21551614
35609
435609
435609
Hunting the Beast
Once the PCs have finished their exploration of the town,
they can find the trailhead and begin searching for the
other trappers. A PC can follow Tola’s tracks
back to the snares with a successful
DC 16 Survival check to Track. After
successfully following the tracks for
an hour, after 4 hours of thorough
wandering if none of the PCs are
trained in Survival, or if they fail
four times in a row, the PCs find the
site. Examining the snares reveals
they were broken by a creature
with large claws. Searching the site
reveals two sets of tracks: Tola’s and
then the paired humanoid footsteps of
the other trappers. With a successful DC
18 Perception check, a PC can spot disturbed
areas of the ground consistent with the burrowing
Tola described. A PC trained in Survival can continue to
Track the Beast with a successful DC 18 Survival check.
Following the humanoid tracks doesn’t require a check
as their boots made clear impressions. It takes 1 hour for
PCs following these to find Iri and Shei sitting at the top
of a poplar tree. They lost the trail and are relieved to see
help, particularly since they haven’t been able to leave
their perch. The Birchfrost Beast has been stalking them
since they were attacked in the woods, and they beg the
PCs to help them by hunting it down. If asked about the
attack or the beast, both Iri and Shei tell a story similar
to Tola’s (see Getting Started). However, the two trappers
have wildly different descriptions of the beast. Iri says it
burst out of the ground with furious snapping teeth, while
Shei describes how it had a tail that felled a sapling with
its force. Both of the twins are certain of what they saw,
leaving the PCs to make their own sense of the strange
creature. This difference is due to the beast’s nature as a
creature of rumor and legend whose appearance matches
the viewer’s expectations, so each telling is, in fact, true.
Iri and Shei explain the creature has returned every few
hours, though it hasn’t been able to reach them up in the
tree. They last saw it on a rocky beach with good tree
cover and a small cliff. The trappers recommend trying
to catch the Birchfrost Beast unaware (see the Stakeout
section on page 69). If the PCs took 4 or more hours to
reach the trappers after departing Birchfrost, the trappers
suffer from exhaustion and hypothermia and require help
to return to Birchfrost safely without being caught by the
Beast. Accompanying them to the town causes the PCs to
lose 1 Stakeout Point, as the PCs lose valuable time.
 Following the Birchfrost Beast’s tracks or the trapper’s
instructions leads to the lakeside trail the Birchfrost Beast
regularly patrols. While traveling to the trail, each PC can
attempt a Perception, Nature, or Survival check to find
signs of the Beast, hints about its capabilities, or the way it
patrols the local woods. The DC for this skill check is 16.
On a success, the PCs earn 1 Stakeout Point (2 points on
a critical success; see the Stakeout section). On a critical
failure, the PCs lose 1 Stakeout Point.
If the PCs earn at least 2 Stakeout Points during
this travel, they discover the creature alternates
between walking above ground and
burrowing under the surface. These
tracks show the beast has five-toed
hooves with claws. On a successful
DC 16 Nature check to Recall
Knowledge about these tracks, a
PC learns they don’t belong to any
known animal, though the hooves
bear a passing resemblance to a boar.
At that point, attempting to Recall
Knowledge to learn more requires
a Nature check with a DC of 30 (an
incredibly hard 5th-level DC because of
the beast’s creature obscura ability), so it’s
extremely unlikely the PCs will be able to do so, and
far more likely they will receive false information from a
critical failure instead. Focus any false information various
PCs deduce on contradictory descriptions to make it seem
like PCs couldn’t both possibly be right. Later, when they
encounter the creature, they’ll realize what happened. If a
PC actually identifies the creature successfully, be sure to
explain to them about rumored creatures and how they
come to be. Their success also means the beast becomes
drained, due to its obscura vulnerability.
A. Lakeside Trail
The lakeside trail the Birchfrost Beast frequents is
approximately 3 miles from the trapping site, or about 7
miles out from Birchfrost.
DEPICTING THE BIRCHFROST BEAST
Throughout this adventure, the PCs will find signs
of the Birchfrost Beast. Until they meet the beast
after the stakeout in area A, they only find tracks
or occasional remains, like a stray tuft of fur, tusk
marks, or hooved tracks. Once the PCs see the
Beast, the confusion continues. The Birchfrost
Beast blends into the natural landscape and
moves quickly. Its appearance is unstable, though
it typically appears as a large boar with enlarged,
mole-like claws it uses to burrow.
Depict the creature as though the PCs only
glimpsed it and provide different PCs with different
details. For example, a PC attempting to engage the
Beast in melee combat focuses on its mauling tusks,
while a PC that stays far away notices the claws on
its hooves that help it burrow. These descriptions
can (and should!) contain contradictory details, as
the creature’s appearance is more myth than fact at
this point.
68
68
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
21551614
21551614
21551614
35609
435609
435609
