paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
21551564
21551564
21551564
35559
435559
435559
THE INFINITE EYE
The true strength of the mind lies in the knowledge
it contains, with each new observation contributing
to the totality of its experiences. To grow your
experiences—and with them, your power—you devote
yourself to observing as much as possible, casting
your senses through space and time with clairvoyance
and precognition.
Granted Spells 1st: true strike; 2nd: augury; 3rd: organsight
(Secrets of Magic 120); 4th: clairvoyance; 5th: prying
eye; 6th: true seeing; 7th: true target; 8th: unrelenting
observation; 9th: foresight
Standard Psi Cantrips detect magic and guidance
Unique Psi Cantrips surface: glimpse weakness; deeper:
omnidirectional scan; deepest: foresee the path
Detect Magic
You have the kind of fine control that other spellcasters
can only dream of. When you cast detect magic, you’re
aware of any creature in the emanation affected by a
spell or carrying a magic item, and you determine the
main location of magic within any magical hazard in
the emanation (with the normal restrictions on detecting
illusions). This typically manifests as an alteration
to your vision, such as seeing a soft aura around the
creature or hazard. Sensing these phenomena doesn’t
make it clear which spell is on a creature, nor which of
its items are magical. Your detect magic also gains the
following amp.
Amp Your pulse of detection magic helps you gain a sense of
nearby magic’s strengths or weaknesses. When you detect
the presence of magic on an enemy or hazard, you gain a
+1 status bonus to saves against magic originating from
that enemy or hazard for 3 rounds. If you find magic from
multiple sources with a single casting of detect magic, you
get the bonus against all of them.
Amp Heightened (7th) The status bonus to saves against magic
increases to +2.
Guidance
You have eyes everywhere, allowing you to guide people
from a great distance. The range of guidance increases to
120 feet. It also gains the following amp.
Amp You can project a flash of insight to your ally in the nick
of time to save them from failure. Amped guidance doesn’t
cause a creature to become temporarily immune to guidance,
and a creature can be targeted by amped guidance even if it
is temporarily immune to guidance.
You can cast an amped guidance spell as a reaction
triggered when your ally fails or critically fails an attack
roll, Perception check, saving throw, or skill check, and the
bonus from guidance would change the failure to a success
or the critical failure to a normal failure. The bonus from
guidance applies retroactively to their check.
Amp Heightened (6th) The bonus from the spell increases
to +2.
GLIMPSE WEAKNESS
CANTRIP 1
UNCOMMON
CANTRIP
DIVINATION
PSYCHIC
Cast [one-action] verbal
Range 60 feet; Targets 1 creature
Duration 1 minute
You glimpse a loose scale, a seam in a foe’s armor, or a similar
weakness, aiding your allies in landing a precise hit. The
first ally that hits the target with a successful Strike deals
additional precision damage equal to 1 + this spell’s level, and
then the spell ends.
Amp The additional precision damage is 1d4+1.
Amp Heightened (+2) The additional precision damage
increases by 1d4+1.
OMNIDIRECTIONAL SCAN
CANTRIP 3
UNCOMMON
CANTRIP
DIVINATION
PSYCHIC
SCRYING
Cast [one-action] verbal
Area 30-foot emanation; Targets 1 ally and 1 enemy
Duration until the start of your next turn
You quickly view your surroundings from a variety of angles,
your senses constructing an overall mental picture. You can
choose to Seek the entire emanation of the spell.
Regardless of whether you Seek, target one ally and one
enemy in the area; if a target is concealed or hidden from you,
you automatically succeed at the flat check to target it with this
spell. You prepare to Aid the target ally on an attack roll against
the target enemy. If you take this Aid reaction, you use your
spell attack modifier and proficiency rank on your check to Aid.
If you critically fail the roll to Aid, you get a failure instead.
Amp Your scans are so minute that you can project your foe’s
likely strengths and weaknesses. You learn which of the
target enemy’s saving throws is highest and which is lowest,
and you and all allies within 30 feet gain a +1 circumstance
bonus to attacks and damage against the creature.
If you take the Aid reaction you prepared for and succeed
at your roll, these bonuses increase to +2 on the attack
you’re Aiding. On a critical success, they increase to +3, or
to +4 if you have legendary proficiency in spell attack rolls.
FORESEE THE PATH
CANTRIP 5
UNCOMMON
CANTRIP
DIVINATION
PSYCHIC
Cast [one-action] verbal
Range 60 feet; Targets 1 ally and 1 enemy
Duration sustained up to 1 minute
You see just a split second into the future and glean how an
enemy will move, making it easier for your allies to strike
it mid-action. Make a Perception check against the target
enemy’s Will DC or Deception DC, whichever is higher. The GM
may judge a different DC is more appropriate if it’s higher; for
instance, using the Warfare Lore DC of a military captain. The
target is then temporarily immune for 1 minute.
Critical Success The target ally gains a reaction that lets it
make a melee Strike against the target enemy, triggered if
the enemy leaves a square within the ally’s reach. If the ally
already has an ability that lets it make melee Strikes as a
reaction, such as Attack of Opportunity, the ally can forgo
1818
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
21551564
21551564
21551564
35559
435559
435559
