paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
21551584
21551584
21551584
355 9
435579
435579
Intensify Vulnerability
9th
Your reinforced chalice can collect a creature’s life force
to become empowered. If you succeed at a Strike against
the target of your Exploit Vulnerability, you increase the
effect if someone Drinks from the Chalice before the end
of that turn. Add an additional half your level to the
temporary HP if the drinker sips, or add your level to the
HP regained if the drinker drains the chalice. This effect
isn’t cumulative if you hit with more than one Strike.
Paragon Benefit
17th
When you or an ally drain the chalice, the overwhelming
vitality it’s collected helps you overcome many ailments.
Reduce the drinker’s clumsy, enfeebled, frightened,
stupefied, and stunned values by 1. (This reduces the
stunned condition only if it has a condition value, not
when it has a duration.) The drinker also reduces its
drained value by 1, but it can reduce its drained condition
by Drinking from the Chalice only once per day.
In addition, the chalice attempts to counteract all
poisons, diseases, and curses afflicting the drinker, using
half your level rounded up as the counteract level and your
class DC – 10 as the counteract modifier. If the chalice
fails to counteract a given affliction for a drinker, it can’t
attempt to counteract that affliction again until midnight.
LANTERN
Lantern implements shine the light of revelation to part
shadows and expose truth. You might use a common glass
lantern, torch, paper lantern, or other similar light source.
Lantern implements are associated with the harrow suit
of stars and the astrological signs of the lantern bearer
and the archer.
Initiate Benefit
While you hold your lantern, its burning light leaves
secrets no place to hide. You can light or extinguish your
lantern as a free action once each turn with nothing but
a thought, which has the concentrate trait. The lantern
shines bright light out to 20 feet and dim light out 20 feet
further; this has the evocation, light, and magical traits
(the counteract level against magical darkness is equal to
half your level rounded up).
The lantern’s magical light attempts to reveal the
unseen. You and your allies in the lantern’s area of bright
light gain a +1 status bonus to visual Perception checks
to notice anything that is also within the bright light, and
a +1 status bonus to checks to Recall Knowledge against
creatures within the bright light, as the light exposes
their true natures. During exploration, even if you aren’t
Searching, the GM rolls a secret check for you to find
traps, environmental hazards, haunts, and secrets (such as
secret doors). The GM rolls each time a given hazard or
secret comes within 20 feet of you and within the lantern’s
bright light. These effects have the divination, magical,
and revelation traits.
Adept Benefit
7th
In addition to the initiate benefits, when you hold your
lantern, its light reveals the invisible and the ethereal.
The bright light increases to 30 feet, with dim light
out 30 feet further. While you’re holding your lantern,
invisible and ethereal creatures within the bright light
become visible as rippling distortions, though they’re
still concealed. This doesn’t give you any special ability
to affect a creature on the Ethereal Plane, but it ensures
you’re aware of the creatures’ presence.
Intensify Vulnerability
9th
Your lantern’s light flares and burns bright, leaving no
shadows in which secrets and enemies can hide. Against
the target of your Exploit Vulnerability, the status
bonuses from the lantern’s initiate benefit increase to
+2. The creature takes a –2 status penalty to Deception
checks and Stealth checks as long as it’s within the
lantern’s light. The creature can’t be concealed while
it’s in the lantern’s light, though it still can potentially
become hidden or undetected using cover or means
other than the concealed condition.
Paragon Benefit
17th
In addition to the other benefits, your lantern reveals
all things as they truly are. The bright light increases to
40 feet, with dim light out 40 feet further. While you’re
holding your lantern, the GM rolls a secret counteract
check against any illusion or transmutation that comes
within the lantern’s bright light, but only for the
purpose of determining whether you and others can see
through it (for instance, if the check succeeds against a
polymorph spell, you can see the creature’s true form,
but you don’t end the spell). Use half your level rounded
up as the counteract level and your class DC – 10 as
the counteract modifier. On a failed counteract check,
the lantern can’t attempt to counteract that illusion or
polymorph effect again until midnight. You can choose
to leave any illusion or transmutation you discover
intact, instead of counteracting it.
MIRROR
Mirror implements represent misdirection, illusion, and
sleight of hand, bending and shifting a perspective and
the way you look at things. While larger mirrors hold
the same mystic connotations, thaumaturges always
choose small, portable, handheld mirrors as implements
so they can use them easily while adventuring. Mirror
implements are associated with the harrow suit of
keys, and the astrological signs of the stranger and
the swallow.
Initiate Benefit
You learn how to use your mirror to project another
version of yourself whose realness is a matter of
perspective. You gain the Mirror’s Reflection action.
38
38
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
21551584
21551584
21551584
355 9
435579
435579
