paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
21551679
21551679
21551679
356
435674
435674
Introduction
The
Archivist’s
Training
Manual
The Stolen
Casefiles
Cryptids
Secret
Societies
Deviant
Abilities
Mirrors and
Imposters
Reflection
Versatile
Heritage
Hazards of
Perception
Alter Ego
Archetype
Lady of the
Harvest
Cults
Curses and
Pacts
Temporal
Anomalies
Mindscapes
Spell &
Item Lists,
Glossary &
Index
Dark
Archive
shame. Towering, ten-foot-tall mirrors line the walls, the
individual panes joined by thin lines of gold. Golden filigree
crowns each mirror’s rounded top. With both sides of the wall
lined in mirrors, each side reflects the other, creating an endless
pattern of increasingly diminishing mirrors and figures. Crystal
chandeliers hang from the ceiling, and golden statues on marble
pedestals stand in between the mirror panels, adding to the
dazzling sparkle of the hall.
As the PCs pass through this hallway to go between
the other rooms, it seems mundane and not noteworthy
beyond the sheer grandeur of it. However, a PC using
3rd‑level detect magic can sense illusion magic in this area,
as the painting masks its true location from view.
Finding the Painting: Once the PCs have traveled
through the entire house, the final time they enter this
hallway or look in its direction, Lady of the Harvest
hangs suspended, as if from thin air, in front of the wall
in the Hall of Mirrors. The painting can’t be claimed
until the hazard is disabled, and collecting the painting
ends the curse, immediately causing a wave to move
through the house. Timbers creak, windows rattle, and
lights seem to flare as the mansion’s haunting ends.
Voices of the dead spirits being freed echo through the
house briefly, recognizable to the PCs as those of the
poltergeists and ghosts.
Creature: As soon as the painting reveals itself, Ogkrix
the blood painter removes his illusions. Removing his
disguise also purges Ogkrix of any adverse conditions or
afflictions the impostor PC was suffering, and he begins
the fight at full Hit Points regardless of the condition of
the impostor PC. Ogkrix seeks to kill the PCs and take
the painting for himself in the commotion, hoping they’ll
bear the brunt of the painting’s retaliation.
As he drops his illusion, the painting shimmers for a
moment before spitting out the original PC, who returns
in whatever condition they were in when sucked into the
painting and replaced by Ogkrix’s mirror duplicate.
Hazard: Any attempt to interact with the painting
activates its magic, triggering the clone mirrors hazard.
The hazard targets creatures indiscriminately—this means
Ogkrix is just as likely to be affected by the hazard as the
PCs. If the fight proves especially difficult for the party,
at your discretion, the hazard can heavily target Ogkrix,
identifying him as the greatest threat.
CLONE MIRRORS
HAZARD 6
Page 124
Stealth +11 (expert)
BLOOD PAINTER
CREATURE 9
Pathfinder Bestiary 3 33
Initiative Perception +19
Rescuing Liro: As soon as the hazard is disabled, Liro
Traventhal is spat back out. She runs for cover, going in
initiative immediately after the turn on which the hazard
was disabled. Ogkrix is likely uninterested in Liro but
might attempt to use her as a human shield if he feels
particularly desperate, or to raise the stakes.
CONCLUSION
Once the PCs disable the clone mirrors, the painting is
calm. It appears that, for now at least, they’ve successfully
defeated the magic that generated the painting’s strange
effects, including the changes the PCs were subjected
to in area A3. Liro is shaken but incredibly grateful to
the PCs for saving her. Read the following out loud to
conclude the adventure.
As the dust settles, Liro smooths her trousers and clears
her throat. “I can’t thank you enough for what you’ve done
here today,” she says. “You’ve made this house safe for the
public and saved my life. I had no idea it would be quite so
dangerous in here, and you’ve certainly gone above and
beyond. I shall see to it that you’re rewarded handsomely by
the city council.”
As Liro guides the way out of the manor, it finally seems
still. No creatures jumping out from dusty corners; no
strange effects warping the rooms’ walls. It seems the curse
really has been lifted—at least, for now.
Using detect magic reveals the painting is still magical,
though it’s unclear when, or if, its curse might reactivate.
133
133
Lady of the Harvest
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
21551679
21551679
21551679
356
435674
435674
