paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
21551622
21551622
21551622
356
435617
435617
purely in self-advancement reside there. The Second and
First Thrones, meanwhile, consist of the conspiracy’s
elders and sages, its mystics and hierophants.
Though the minute details are obscured, we’ve
uncovered enough information over the years to
grasp the order’s twin mandate. First, they believe in
enlightenment. The order teaches that all creatures
possess a divine spark, and through ritual and
meditation, the order cultivates
this spark, fanning it into a
mighty flame. In theory, a
sufficiently enlightened being
can do remarkable things. One
is reminded of Irori’s ascension
to godhood.
The
order’s
other
mandate
is
much
more pragmatic. Their
members believe certain
knowledge is dangerous,
and so go out of their way
to secure strange artifacts or
obscure lore they deem unhealthy to Golarion at large.
Usually, they prefer to pay someone else to do the actual
acquisition, after which they ensconce the prize in one
of their less public Cathedrals, away from unworthy
eyes. They judge who’s worthy, of course.
Codicil: The Esoteric Order of the Palatine Eye is
fascinated with all things Osirion. We’ve heard it said
their founder, Count Aldus Aldon Canter of Vieland,
encountered the fallen angel Tabris in a tomb in that old
land and learned from the angel the fundamentals that
would become the order’s philosophy. He wrote them
in a book, the Lost Gospels of Tabris. We’ve tried to
obtain a copy but have had no luck thus far.
The Way of the Kirin
Another chapter-based conspiracy, the Way of the Kirin
is an example of just how difficult it is to root out a
sufficiently determined secret society. Formed in Imperial
Lung Wa about 400 years ago, the Way of the Kirin
presented itself as a merchant consortium on the surface
while harboring a decidedly revolutionary political
agenda. Reading between the lines of the denunciations
that followed later, one gets the impression they were
mostly crusaders for just governance, fair wages and
work practices, and social rights. Needless to say, they
earned a host of enemies.
When Lung Wa fell, the Way of the Kirin was caught
off guard, and numerous chapters were destroyed
by their foes. Some survived, however—primarily in
Goka, Lingshen, and Shokuro—by going underground.
Today, the society is not quite as weak as it was in
the immediate aftermath of Lung Wa’s fall, though it’s
still far from what it used to be. A few years back, it
founded a few new chapters in the Inner Sea region, in
Katheer and Absalom, and forged an alliance with the
Pathfinder Society for reasons that undoubtedly made
sense to its members.
Currently, the Way of the Kirin is locked in a brutal
struggle with the Golden League, a collection of
organized crime lords that pervades Tian Xia. At its
height, the way was known for wealth, honor, and
a willingness to use force to defeat its foes. Perhaps
its sojourn in the dark has taught it cunning now
as well.
The Cat and Mouse Society
A secret society of much more recent
vintage, the Cat and Mouse Society was
founded in Aspenthar in Thuvia
about 30 years ago. It’s a group
with a brutal philosophy: all
the world can be divided into
two groups, the weak and the
strong, the prey and the predator,
the victim and the victimizer, the
mouse and the cat. Members of the
society see themselves as cats, and believe it’s their
prerogative—indeed, their sublime right to do with the
mice as they please.
For the outer circle of the society, this mostly translates
into being aristocrats of a particularly obnoxious sort.
They attend risqué parties, drink a great deal of wine,
peruse scandalous art, and generally indulge in illicit
vices, but only in a rote fashion. But there exists an inner
circle, and I’ve seen it at work. Compared to the outer
circle, the adepts of the society are older, more cunning,
and much, much more vicious.
The central rite is the Hunt, which I once had the
dubious honor of witnessing. An occult ritual exists that
gives their victims the heads of mice and makes them
paranoically afraid of all things feline, while binding
them to reside in a certain place. The society then hunts
their victims, garbed in cat masks, and kills them—the
purest expression of its twisted philosophy.
Most members of the inner circle of the Cat and
Mouse Society are mages of some sort, and the group
as a whole has a unified pyramid structure with three
leaders at its pinnacle. The High Sire is the Master of
the Hunt and the keeper of the Great Black Sphinx, an
otherworldly cat the size of a lion. The High Talon is
the Master of the Lodge, in charge of recruitment and
propaganda, the society’s public face—his name is Tabar
Rashem, and he is the Chancellor of the Exchequer in
the royal court of Prince Zinlo (which means he is the
man who would handle the actual sale of the sun orchid
elixir should it take place in Aspenthar). Finally, there
is the Grand Malkin, the Master of the Rites and the
society’s main occultist. Curiously, the man I know to be
the Grand Malkin, one Kideiun Maqem, died about five
years ago. Yet rumors say he somehow rules the society
76
76
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
21551622
21551622
21551622
356
435617
435617
