paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
21551737
21551737
21551737
35 3
435732
435732
Introduction
The
Archivist’s
Training
Manual
The Stolen
Casefiles
Cryptids
Secret
Societies
Deviant
Abilities
Mirrors and
Imposters
Cults
Curses and
Pacts
Temporal
Anomalies
Temporal
Spells
Time Mage
Archetype
Chronoskimmer
Archetype
Time Oracle
Mystery
Tomorrow’s
Feast
Mindscapes
Spell &
Item Lists,
Glossary &
Index
Dark
Archive
Talking to people getting off the Golden Fortune yields
few results. No one can describe their experience, having
lost their memories when stuck in the time loop. A PC who
succeeds at a DC 28 Perception check can verify that the
customers aren’t lying—they truly remember nothing.
A1. DINING DECK
EXTREME 10
Read or paraphrase the following as the players set foot
on the boat. After Loop 0 (see the sidebar on page 192),
modify the text below appropriately.
The ramp leads to the main deck of the boat, where guests are
taking their seats at opulent darkwood tables and chairs with
intricate carvings. An amethyst geode flickers as a middle-aged
man with a bushy salt-and-pepper beard makes his way to the
entrance, adjusting his maroon robes. “Welcome to the Golden
Fortune! I’ve never seen you in these parts before, but it’s never
too late to make new friends! My name is Rui Longlai, the host
and owner of this fine restaurant. Please, let me find you a seat
so you can prepare for the finest dinner experience in all Goka!”
Loop 1: Rui says that the PCs seem somewhat familiar,
but if the PCs mention that they’ve had this exchange
before, he can’t place it.
Loop 2: Rui is sure he’s seen the PCs. He’s hazy on the
details but helpful to players who want to investigate.
Loop 3: Instead of his normal welcome, Rui says,
“Thank you for being here. I’ve made a terrible mistake
and I need your help to repair the damage. Please come
with me. I know we don’t have much time.” He then
accompanies the PCs below and can find all three books
in area A2 without searching, can recount the information
in Rui Longlai’s Journal without reading it, and can read
through the other books, automatically gaining a new
clue every 10 minutes.
Once the PCs set foot into the anomaly, which
completely covers the Golden Fortune and extends 30 feet
from the boat, they can’t leave it; the space is distorted
and impassable. After speaking with the PCs, Rui pulls up
the ramp and the ship leaves port. The PCs have an hour
to talk with Rui, taste the restaurant’s cuisine, explore the
areas of the boat they can, and gather information from
the guests. On Loop 0, before the PCs are aware of either
the time loop or time limit, they will likely only be able to
converse with the people on the deck and enjoy their meal.
There are two servers carrying food and drinks back and
forth between the deck and the kitchen. Hwarang Hahn
(CN human server) is energetic and disarms customers
with his good looks and fast wits, though while he charms
them and takes their orders, he also tries to take their
valuables from their pockets. He is in league with Fa and
Kuen (area A4), who are hiding out from the authorities,
so when PCs start asking questions, he assumes they are
here for the brothers and warns them, setting them on edge
for a fight. Hwarang feels the PCs are far too formidable
to be prospective targets for pickpocketing, but they might
notice him surreptitiously lifting something from another
passenger as they search the dining deck.
Banjau (CG half-orc server) is a Matanji half-orc very far
from her native Nantambu. The soft-spoken server found a
retreat from the pressures and expectations of her family,
enjoying a simple life here serving food to her customers.
Banjau has been a part of several of Rui’s re-launches (this
is the third). She doesn’t know anything about Hwarang,
Fa, and Kuen and prefers it that way (“they seem like
they’ve experienced life’s roughest parts”).
PCs who investigate the exterior of the boat or the water
around it for 10 minutes can attempt a DC 27 Nature check.
On a success, they notice water around the boat isn’t moving
in sync with the boat’s movement. A PC who succeeds at a
DC 27 Diplomacy check to Gather Information (taking 20
minutes, far less than the usual time because of how few
people are around) can tell that no one’s noticed anything
wrong. The passengers are excited for the journey and wait
in anticipation for their meals; PCs who succeed at the
check, or who simply order and experience the meal, also
pick up some of the information above about the servers.
Loop 1: In the first and subsequent loops, the passengers
seem a bit on edge, and the PCs realize they might have
more information to give with a Gather Information
check. On a success, the PCs learn that one passenger
named Maika Khogal has information from loops leaking
into her head. She says things like “you’re better than the
last ones” or she’ll call a PC by someone else’s name (one
of the previous explorers who came on the ship). She’ll
also tell the PCs, “The talismans protect your potential,”
though she herself doesn’t understand what that means.
Rui doesn’t let the PCs in the kitchen or belowdecks,
saying he plans a big reveal and that it’s worth the wait.
Since Rui’s life force and consciousness power the time loop
and determine the affected area, it’s virtually impossible
to go belowdecks without his permission, which a PC
attempting to sneak below immediately notices as strange.
Loop 1: Rui lets the PCs into the rest of the ship on a
successful DC 25 Diplomacy check. If the PCs fail, but
don’t critically fail, they can try again after 20 minutes,
and a third time after another 20 minutes.
ABOUT THIS ADVENTURE
Recommended Level: Team of four 10th-level
characters.
Tomorrow’s Feast takes place in Goka, a major port
metropolis on the western coast of Tian Xia. The PCs
are trapped in a time loop aboard a restaurant boat,
the Golden Fortune, that ends with their almost
certain death at the hands of a fearsome temporal
creature. Thankfully, the time loop can give the
team multiple chances to uncover the information
they’ll need to defeat the creature once and for all,
putting an end to the many, many maiden voyages
of the Golden Fortune.
191
191
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
21551737
21551737
21551737
35 3
435732
435732
