paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
21551756
21551756
21551756
35 5
435751
435751
Chase encounter to enter the Storybook (see Racing Down
Memory Lane, below).
The research takes until midnight, after which point
Kedari is ready. To reduce variables during the experimental
ritual, Kedari arranges for the casting to take place in a
private laboratory under layers of the Magaambya’s
finest magical wards. The scholar spins a web of magic,
connecting each PC to the armadillo mask, which flares in
dreamlike colors before the PCs fall into a gentle slumber.
RACING DOWN MEMORY LANE
MODERATE 12
Kedari’s ritual feels similar to the transits through the
somnambulist’s bridge, but somehow more complete—as
natural as falling asleep after a long day. When the shift is
complete, the party stands in a dreamlike, temperate forest
before the rotting walls of a two-story library. Books pile at
the foot of collapsed bookcases and shelves, their covers
marred by rain and mildew. Only a pair of darkwood doors
stand, frameless, among the trees and ruin.
The party comes across the entrance to what must be the
memory realm. With an appropriate DC 28 Society check
or DC 25 check with an appropriate Lore skill, such as
Pathfinder Society Lore, a PC can identify the doors as
the pair that once stood at the entrance to the Vaults of
the Grand Lodge in Absalom. As soon as the doors are
opened, the mindscape mounts a defense to keep out
intruders; read or paraphrase the following.
The doors swing forward easily with a creak. The forest grows
cold and dark behind you, storm winds rising to buffet you
inside even as the library’s interior blurs and shifts. Though
you’ve never been here, you can’t shake how familiar it all feels.
This encounter uses the Chase subsystem described on
page 156 of the Gamemastery Guide. If the party doesn’t
collectively acquire the number of Chase Points listed in
the obstacle by succeeding at the indicated skill checks
in one round, they only barely manage to outpace the
obstacle, taking the damage listed in the Penalty section.
BIRCHFROST KAIJU
OBSTACLE 12
Chase Points 4; Overcome DC 28 Acrobatics or Athletics to
dodge the Beast’s legs and falling trees, DC 30 Intimidation
to Demoralize the beast, DC 26 Arcana or Occultism to
counteract the jawbone
Cold, muggy mist drifts on the shores of the Lake of Mists
and Veils, though pieces of Yllaldo Castle are strewn through
the forest. The jawbone of Nolimarthos protrudes from the
water, and a deafening drone fills the air. When it ends, the
Birchfrost Beast emerges from the lake, growing in size with
each terrible blast of sound until it blots out the sun and the
ground shudders.
Penalty The Birchfrost Kaiju’s thundering steps deal 6d6
bludgeoning damage (DC 34 basic Reflex save) to all PCs.
IMPOSTORS AT THE OPERA
OBSTACLE 12
Chase Points 5; Overcome DC 28 Diplomacy or Intimidation
to get the two sides to back down, DC 30 Perception or
Society to identify or draw out the impostor
The Fullbloom Opera House is lovely this evening, the Lady
of the Harvest hanging on stage. “Heroes, your arrival is most
timely!” Jaynt or Vir (whoever the PCs sided with when they
played Shaking the Helping Hand) calls from the stage—but
there are two of her. “That impostor has sown seeds of doubt
into the minds of my allies. You must assist me!” says one from
stage left, while on stage right, the other decries, “Lies, smoke,
and mirrors! I’m the real one, and it’s YOU who have come to
destroy us from within!”
Penalty Having incorrectly identified the impostor, mirror
versions of the PCs appear behind them and plunge daggers
into their backs, dealing 2d6 piercing damage plus 2d6
precision damage.
MOTHER AND GRANDFATHER
OBSTACLE 12
Chase Points 3; Overcome DC 32 Stealth or Athletics to escape
from the confrontation, DC 30 Religion or Nature to ward
off the magic
The Womb of the World’s temple is strangely cold and covered
in snow. Ded Bolota looms tall in one corner, birch leaves and
snowflakes swirling threateningly around him, while Mother
Mitera rises in the other, held within an enormous wicker
avatar grown of moonflower vines. The two plant bodies begin
to brawl and launch bolts of natural magic as the waves of the
Obari Ocean crash.
Penalty The clash from the two creatures deals 3d6 cold damage
plus 3d6 poison damage (DC 34 basic Fortitude save).
FLASHBACK LOOP
OBSTACLE 12
Chase Points special (see below); Overcome special (see below)
Time surreptitiously loops. Return the PCs to the Birchfrost
Kaiju obstacle, describing it the same way as the first time.
The Overcome skills are the same, but their DCs are all one
lower, and the number of Chase Points required is also 1
lower. If the PCs clear this, return to the Impostors at the
Opera obstacle, then the Mother and Grandfather obstacle,
and then the chase ends. However, if at any point a PC
realizes this is a time loop, the Knife of Trouble Elimination
appears before them, and any PC can sever the loop to
automatically clear the obstacle and end the chase.
The Scattered Storybook
The crack in the kaleidoscope of memories widens, wind and
light bursting through before drawing in. The memories that
once stretched their ethereal claws now scream in anger,
reaching out as the ground drops and falls away, down,
down, down into the depths of a void.
Your back hits a door. It swings open. You stumble in. For
a moment, the world is suspended and weightless before
gravity reasserts itself towards the nearest surface: a perfectly
smooth, flat plane of vivid colors.
210
210
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
21551756
21551756
21551756
35 5
435751
435751
