paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
21551684
21551684
21551684
356 9
435679
435679
The Silent Sect of the Black Butterfly
Though the Black Butterfly is no Elder God, those
followers of hers devoted to this sect defiantly place
themselves among the Old Cults in declared opposition to
the evils of the Dark Tapestry. These faithful train in the
arts of investigation, infiltration, and stealth, all to devote
themselves to exposing and, if necessary, exterminating
the cults of the Elder Mythos wherever they appear. In
doing so, they hope to weaken their opponents’ masters
so that the Butterfly can mirror their actions in the space
between stars, cleansing it of all evil and claiming it as her
domain alone. The “Silent” part of their name comes from
situational vows of silence, which permit the
members to operate normally in their
everyday lives—so long as they refrain
from speaking while directly at work
against the forces of evil.
CULTS OF THE DESTROYER
AND THE END TIMES
The most inexplicable of all
to outsiders, the cults of
Rovagug, Groetus, and
other figures of inevitable
destruction have likely
been a part of creation
for as long as that creation
has been self-aware. Like
the Old Cults, they crop up
in all known civilizations and
inevitably cause trouble for anyone unfortunate
enough to cross their paths, sometimes resulting in
swaths of destruction that lead to the suffering of dozens if
not hundreds of people.
Why, though, would anyone pray for the end of the
world? The simplest answer: they don’t. While some of
these cultists view the world as so inherently broken and
corrupt that divine destruction is the only path to a better
future, many others simply believe the end to be inevitable
more than desire it actively. After all, the unprecedented
coalition of divinities that fought Rovagug could only
contain, not destroy him. When that containment fails—
which it no doubt will eventually—can there be any hope
of resistance, even with divine numbers bolstered by
mortal apotheosis? The very existence of Groetus seems to
confirm that there can’t. Even the River of Souls will one
day stop flowing. Even the gods must one day die.
Therefore, believers’ priorities shift to ensuring that they
and theirs are on the “winning” side in hopes of some small
mercy, even if that means they’re simply the last to go.
MYSTERY CULTS
While all cults guard their secrets and treasures, the
so-called mystery cults—or simply “the mysteries”—take
it all a step further by limiting their participation to a select
group of initiates, who are in turn forbidden from revealing
their secrets to the outside world. Research suggests that
these cults are among the oldest religious expressions in
the world.
The Cult of Sacred Intoxication
Thought to have first appeared shortly after the invention
of wine, this cult’s many incarnations are known to ferment
over time amid outcasts and the downtrodden, becoming
a prominent counter-cultural force. The seeds of its rituals
then spread throughout the world, where they take root in
other lands and begin the cycle anew.
Uniting these otherwise disparate sects is their idol of
worship: the state of intoxication, primarily from alcohol
but also from other drugs, medicinal plants, and
poisons. These faithful revere drunkenness as “the
Little Apotheosis,” a method through which all
mortals, no matter their status or ability, can
be freed from social mores and grow closer
to the divine. Participants, however, are not
encouraged to form drinking habits, especially
not to the extent that it might harm
their
day-to-day
lives.
Rather,
worship for these cultists seems
to take primarily the form
of raucous parties in private
or secluded locations, during
which all participants endeavor
to remain as intoxicated as
possible for days while indulging
in their whims for food, violence,
passion, and dancing. Rumors of
ritualistic animal dismemberment and consumption are
unconfirmed, though we feel safe in concluding that the
stories of sentient creatures being likewise torn apart are
little more than libel.
While deities of alcohol and indulgence are sometimes
invoked during these rituals, it’s only as patrons, exemplars,
heralds of intoxication, or potential drinking buddies. In
modern times, the cult’s influence is relatively weak in the
Inner Sea, as most of its local branches were subsumed
into the faith of Cayden Cailean after his ascension; it yet
maintains a decent presence in Tian Xia, where revelers
will often set aside a dedicated barrel of wine in case Sun
Wukong decides he’d like to join in.
The Sacred Truth of Love Above All
Aside from its ostentatious name, little is known about
this particular mystery cult. It’s thought to have originated
in Vudra sometime during the Age of Anguish, but this
is merely a rough guess based on the archaeological
remnants of its shrines, which are found in mountain
ranges throughout Casmaron and the Inner Sea, as well
as on mountainous islands in Iblydos. The ages of these
sites vary wildly from the ancient to the modern, with the
latter being the only documented indication of the cult’s
continued survival.
138
138
Altar to Nhimbaloth
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
21551684
21551684
21551684
356 9
435679
435679
