paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
21551634
21551634
21551634
356 9
435629
435629
find common ground. Tomorrow’s opera-house meeting is a
mediation of a trade dispute between members of Absalom’s
Low Council, as represented by their proxies.” Vir taps the
symbol on the glove. “I fear that whatever organization uses
that symbol plans to disrupt the mediation, but I don’t know
what their ultimate aims are.
“And so we come to my request: please accompany me
to the opera. Keep a watchful eye out for people with that
symbol or others who might seek to disturb the mediation. If
you do come across such dangerous individuals, do what you
can to capture them for official questioning and trial.”
After the meeting, Vir offers lodging and says she has
opera-appropriate clothing on hand, though the
occasion doesn’t exactly play well with being
armed. As a registered and recognized guard
of a member of the city elite, Bahvan
is best equipped to bring the
group’s arms and armor into
the venue without stirring up a
scene. Bahvan agrees to find a
lavatory in which to stash the
PCs arms and armor, and then
to inform them of its location.
A NIGHT AT THE OPERA
The Fullbloom Opera House in the Petal District lives up to its
name this evening. Attendees stroll through the gated grounds
of the opera house and up to the building itself, the outside of
it looking like a lavish cross between a domed temple and an
unfurled golden rose. A tastefully verdigris ironwork fence
outlines the wide perimeter of the venue and its surrounding
garden. The central gate is open, welcoming in the players to
walk the paths that spiral through the garden, as well as the
main avenue that leads to the triple flight of wide marble stairs
at the facade of the building itself. The who’s who of the Petal
District mingle, indulging in delectable appetizers. Members
of the operatic orchestra play gentle songs to accompany the
sociable chatter in the garden.
The attendees trickle into the theater, wearing a
dizzying array of finery. If the PCs opted to accept Vir’s
outfitting or wear their own fashionable and fancy attire,
they fit right into the crowd. If they’ve opted to wear
more common clothing, they get questions from the staff,
and the venue’s security takes keen note of any arms the
party bears without a golden reason to look the other
way (1 gp for each individual sighting, or 20 gp to pay
off security so that the venue guard will not hover around
the group).
As the party makes their way indoors, Vir explains
she intends to head to her reserved box house right after
procuring sweetberry wine from the bar. She asks them
to look out for suspicious parties bearing the mark of her
assumed enemy, then leaves them to mingle for the 20
minutes leading up to the seating for the performance of
The Cyclical Conundrum of Cynthia and Evelyn.
Conspicuously, Bahvan is nowhere to be found in the
crowd, though Vir seems unconcerned, explaining that he
likely is scouring the box before the performance.
ANATOMY OF THE OPERA HOUSE
The PCs can freely roam the opera house before the
show starts. Use these locations as backdrops.
A. Entrance/Box Office: The Box Office is a partitioned
space immediately beyond the front doors. Three ticket
vendors attend it, as well as four
guards—two
at
the
entrances,
and two at the doors leading to
the lobby and front of house.
The dome is a stone relief of
flowering branches. A statue of
the goddess Shelyn points to the
ceiling, where multicolored glowing
glass petals create a stunning array of light
and shadow; the way some fall creates the
illusion of laughing and crying faces in profile.
B. Front Lobby: The front lobby, hewed from
marble and painted with flowers on the ceilings and
walls, is furnished with plush seats where guests can enjoy
drinks or play cards before the show. Waitstaff operate
two well-stocked bars, taking drinks to tables or private
boxes. A doorway leads straight into the performance hall,
and two more doorways lead to the hallways.
C. Hallways: These hallways connect to the
performance hall, washrooms, and staircases that lead
to the private boxes on upper floors. Each private box
is outfitted with a good lock (Core Rulebook 290). Two
security guards patrol each floor.
D. Backstage: The backstage area has lavish makeup
and dressing rooms, a backstage proper (hidden by two
gigantic curtains), and a prop room. A spare curtain rests
along the east wall of backstage proper. While this curtain
seems ordinary, it becomes a portal in Act III. Behind the
backstage proper is a door leading into a performer’s
lounge, which has an emergency door out of the back of
the building. Before the performance, the cast and crew
are gathered here and backstage proper.
E. Performance Hall: The hall is filled with several
rows of general seating at the ground level that slope
in toward the stage, each divided into 2 sections with
avenues for ushers to navigate. In front is an elevated
stage for an orchestra, and behind that is a further
elevated stage for the main performance, which has two
staircases flanking its proscenium, strategically cast in
shadow. Until the performance begins, the main stage is
hidden behind a pair of rose-red curtains. The hall air
is cool and smells pleasantly of peony, and when there
is no performance happening, elaborate candelabras
dangle from the ceiling, casting a calming blue light
from the flame of their torches.
88
88
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
21551634
21551634
21551634
356 9
435629
435629
