paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
21551741
21551741
21551741
35 36
435736
435736
Introduction
The
Archivist’s
Training
Manual
The Stolen
Casefiles
Cryptids
Secret
Societies
Deviant
Abilities
Mirrors and
Imposters
Cults
Curses and
Pacts
Temporal
Anomalies
Temporal
Spells
Time Mage
Archetype
Chronoskimmer
Archetype
Time Oracle
Mystery
Tomorrow’s
Feast
Mindscapes
Spell &
Item Lists,
Glossary &
Index
Dark
Archive
with Jiudu, she teaches them the line “Six plovers grace
Shelyn’s comb” to give to her past self. If the PCs speak
this line to Jiudu in a subsequent loop, she recognizes
them as being sent by her future self and will immediately
stand down from combat—while “future” self is slightly
inaccurate, this still allows the PCs to bypass this fight on
subsequent loops if they need to revisit the dining room.
A4. KITCHEN
LOW 10
The tantalizing smell of simmering seafood stock permeates
this compact kitchen. Baskets of vegetables line the walls.
Fa and Kuen are busy cooking in this kitchen. The
brothers are assassins on the run, working this
job until the heat dies down. They were told
of this opportunity by the server Hwarang,
who often works with the pair on jobs. Rui
hired the two on the spot after seeing their
excellent knife work. While Fa and Kuen
are excellent cooks, they’re not used to
the time management needed to run a
professional restaurant kitchen.
Hwarang warns the pair if he sees
the PCs asking too many questions,
thinking they are authorities looking for the brothers.
Even without this warning, Fa and Kuen immediately
attack anyone who comes into the kitchen without Rui,
suspecting they are there to arrest them. They surrender
and submit to being taken to jail when they are at a
quarter of their Hit Points total. Characters can succeed
at a DC 30 Diplomacy or Society check to convince the
brothers they aren’t there to arrest them. The brothers
don’t know anything about the ritual, only caring what
happens in the kitchen.
During a fight, the slippery floors in the kitchen make
the ground difficult terrain.
Loop 3: There is a faint blue glow coming from the
storage room. Fa and Kuen do not seem to perceive it.
FA AND KUEN
CREATURE 9
Elite assassins (Bestiary 6, Gamemastery Guide 211)
Bypassing the Brothers: The brothers attempt to fight
and kill the PCs only because their faces have been seen.
If the PCs bang on the door before they come belowdecks
and claim to be the authorities here to make an arrest,
the brothers instead jump out of a porthole and attempt
to swim to escape (not knowing that they can’t leave the
anomaly), as their identities are still secret. Be sure that Fa
or Kuen complain that the PCs didn’t identify themselves as
authorities the first time they surrender after combat with
the PCs, and the other brother blurts “Yeah, then we could
have made a break for it,” or something similar. This will
allow the PCs to bypass this fight on subsequent loops if
they need to revisit the kitchen (or storage room).
A5. STORAGE
This small storage space is crammed with food, spices, and
cooking implements, as well as several poorly organized crates.
Space has been made to accommodate two hammocks.
This is where Fa and Kuen sleep at night rather than going
home. Rui thinks it is unconventional but also
thinks that it shows dedication to
their craft, so he allows it.
Finding the Knife: Hidden in a
crate containing a dangerous jumble
of sharp cooking implements (sloppily
packed from Rui’s last restaurant) is the
Knife of Trouble Elimination, though it
seems like just another knife. Even Rui
can’t remember which one it is. Once the
PCs have found the knife, they can find it
immediately in later loops.
Loop 1, 2: Temporal energy starts to form in this room,
and the knife can be detected with a successful
DC 25 Occultism or Arcana check, taking 10
minutes to attempt the check, or 5 minutes if
also using detect magic.
Loop 3: The Knife of Trouble Elimination has become
unstable as it attempts to hold the time loop open. The
whole room glows with a faint blue light and the knife
becomes easy to locate from the crate.
DEFEATING THE MORROWKIN
The morrowkin is pulled through a black hole in the fabric of
reality, hissing about all the fates it wanted to devour as it goes.
The tear heals as quickly as it formed.
A few breaths later, the Knife of Trouble Elimination shudders
for a moment before letting raw temporal energy spiral forth.
Reality is rewritten as scenery goes back into place, people
return to their positions, and damage is reversed. The knife
fades away into nothing. Everything is as it once was... except
for Rui Longlai, who has aged at least thirty years.
The Knife of Trouble Elimination used Rui Longlai’s life
to hold the loops open. Rui is aware of this and doesn’t
complain, since he wanted to save the people who were
suffering from his mistake. The owner of the Golden
Fortune is in great spirits, saying he realizes there are no
shortcuts in life. He thinks he can finally run the restaurant
the right way. He thanks the PCs profusely for the help and
encourages them to visit the restaurant again in the future.
All PCs are restored to the state when they first stepped
into the temporal anomaly. Only the PCs and Rui remember
anything about the morrowkin. Unleashing Potential
disappears, as do all other traces of it, and the PCs see
the passengers disembark from the boat disoriented but
alive—the same ones they first saw disembarking when
they arrived on the dock.
195
195
Knife of Trouble Elimination
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
21551741
21551741
21551741
35 36
435736
435736
