paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
21551613
21551613
21551613
35608
435608
435608
Introduction
The
Archivist’s
Training
Manual
The Stolen
Casefiles
Cryptids
Aftermath
Feats
Cryptid
Adjustments
Cryptid Gear
Cryptid Class
Feats
The Beast of
Birchfrost
Secret
Societies
Deviant
Abilities
Mirrors and
Imposters
Cults
Curses and
Pacts
Temporal
Anomalies
Mindscapes
Spell &
Item Lists,
Glossary &
Index
Dark
Archive
However, a new skipping song has enhanced both legend
and source, transforming the beast into a more dangerous
one: it aggressively attacks anyone it finds in its territory,
not just those engaged in over-hunting.
Getting Started
As the PCs doze off in front of the Dark Archive folio, the
magic of the somnambulists’ bridge takes hold. A strange
drifting sensation fills the PCs’ bodies as they fall asleep,
and time stretches and contorts as darkness swallows them.
Then, like waking from a dream, the PCs come to their
senses as the bracing cold air of Birchfrost touches their
cheeks—they have arrived at their destination, the Dark
Archive folio slamming shut with a clap and dropping to
the ground before them.
The Adventure begins as the PCs hear a commotion
outside of the supply store. A local trapper, the grizzled
Tola Regoli (NG female half-elf trapper) limps from the
trailhead, without the companions who departed with
her. As she drags herself into a rocking chair set outside
her home, she begins to unwind the makeshift sling
securing her arm. The PCs can overhear gossip already
spreading about what happened: Tola went out to set
snares with two other trappers this morning. She made
it back, albeit with a broken arm, but the other trappers
are still missing.
Read or paraphrase the following when the PCs catch
her attention.
“Come around here,” the scarred half-elf Tola says as she gingerly
presses on her wounded arm. “You seem sturdy enough folks
with time on your hands. I don’t want to leave my people out
there with that beast and no backup. If you’re of sound body
and adventurous spirit, I’d appreciate it if you could try and
find them.”
If the PCs express interest, Tola explains what happened.
She takes a swig from her canteen to wet her throat before
launching into the tale. It was a typical day of setting up
traps to catch some beavers for their pelts with her crew.
She works with two twins just out of adolescence, Iri
and Shei (N female human hunters), who usually have
good heads about them. While she and the other trappers
were setting up their snares, a furred beast burst from the
ground below. Tola swears it looked like a badger, but Iri
was going on about a devil attacking her. The creature dug
back into the ground, so Tola made the call to take the
traps and leave. When she leaned over to collect them, the
creature struck at her from behind. She fell on her arm and
felt something in her wrist snap.
By the time she fought off the nausea and scrambled
back to her feet, the others were fleeing. She was in no state
to keep fighting, so she followed. As they fled through the
forest, she jostled her injured arm and had to slow down
due to the sudden pain. During that moment, she lost track
of her allies. She thought they would follow the game trails
back to town, but clearly she made it back before them.
While they’re capable in the woods, the attack concerns
Tola. She asks the PCs to find Iri and Shei, saying she has a
bad feeling about the situation.
If the PCs ask more questions about the beast, she
scoffs and says she didn’t believe the stories before today
and wasn’t expecting to see it. The Birchfrost Beast’s tale
is best told by a local net-maker named Ligh, since Tola
stopped listening to it once she was taller than her dads’
apron strings.
Treasure: If the PCs express any hesitation about facing
the Birchfrost Beast, she offers to help equip them. She has
a set of studded leather armor, her +1 dagger, and a pair
of lesser healing potions. Even if the PCs don’t express
concern, she volunteers this equipment. If the PCs agree to
help, she promises her finest pelt in exchange for word of
Iri and Shei’s safe return.
ASKING AROUND THE TOWN
After the discussion with Tola, the PCs can learn more
about the Birchfrost Beast. The PCs can attempt a DC 18
Diplomacy check to Gather Information. If they follow
the lead from Tola and try to find Ligh, they gain a +2
circumstance bonus on this check. On a success, the PCs
meet with the young net-maker, Ligh (N agender human
weaver), who has been collecting tales of the Birchfrost
Beast. Over tea, they tell the story of the rich man’s folly
and the Birchfrost Beast (see Adventure Background). On
a critical success, a PC gains the favor of Ligh’s shy child,
Mae. Mae teaches them a skipping song about the beast
that hunts hunters in the woods, though Ligh chuckles
and says the song’s incorrect, and the beast should only
attack those who don’t respect the natural balance
of the world.
Walk through the forest, skip through the trees
Listen to the wings flap on the breeze.
Touch a leaf, skip a beat, fall your cheeks turn red
Hunt in the Birchfrost, soon you’ll be dead!
If the PCs fail the Diplomacy check to Gather Information,
Ligh and the other villagers aren’t willing to talk to them
about the beast, worried it might take offense and strike
back against them. Regardless, proceed to Hunting
the Beast (page 68).
ABOUT THIS ADVENTURE
Recommended Level: Team of four 3rd-level
characters.
The Beast of Birchfrost takes place on the shores
of the Lake of Mists and Veils, where tales of the
town’s local cryptid appear to have changed from
a local protector to something more sinister. The
PCs will have to track and confront whatever this
creature is to get to the bottom of the local tales.
67
67
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
21551613
21551613
21551613
35608
435608
435608
