paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
21551561
21551561
21551561
35556
435556
435556
Introduction
The
Archivist’s
Training
Manual
Psychic Class
Thaumaturge
Class
Psychic
Archetype
Thaumaturge
Archetype
The Stolen
Casefiles
Spell &
Item Lists,
Glossary &
Index
Dark
Archive
PERSONAL BARRIER
13TH
Subtle telekinetic fields dampen and deflect incoming
blows. Your proficiency rank in unarmored defense
increases to expert.
WEAPON SPECIALIZATION
13TH
As you touch a weapon, you glimpse the hands that made
and wielded it, teaching you how to inflict greater injuries.
You deal 2 additional damage with weapons and unarmed
attacks in which you are an expert. This damage increases
to 3 if you’re a master, and 4 if you’re legendary.
MASTER SPELLCASTER
15TH
You’ve gained access to the deepest corners of your own
mind. Your proficiency ranks for occult spell attack rolls
and spell DCs increase to master.
FORTRESS OF WILL
17TH
Your trained mind is as a fortress that none can breach.
Your proficiency rank for Will saves increases to legendary.
When you critically fail a Will save, you get a failure instead.
When you fail a Will save against a damaging effect, you
take half damage.
INFINITE MIND
19TH
Anything you can imagine is now within the realm of
possibility. Add two common 10th-level occult spells to your
repertoire; you gain a single 10th-level spell slot you can use
to cast one of those two spells using psychic spellcasting. You
don’t gain more 10th-level spells as you level up, unlike other
spell slots, and you can’t use 10th-level slots with abilities
that give you more spell slots or that let you cast spells
without expending spell slots. You can take the Mind over
Matter psychic feat to gain a second slot.
LEGENDARY SPELLCASTER
19TH
As your training reaches its peak, you understand not just
your own mind, but the collective unconscious from which
all psychic power stems. Your proficiency ranks for occult
spell attack rolls and spell DCs increase to legendary.
Subconscious Mind
The core of how you cast spells comes from the subconscious
portions of your mind. Because you cast spells using the
power of your subconscious mind, you replace verbal
components of spells with thought components. Thought
components add the concentrate trait to the spell like
verbal components do, but they don’t require you to speak.
Details of each subconscious mind’s thought components
appear in its entry. You select your subconscious mind at
1st level, and it determines the following.
Key Ability You gain an ability boost to your key ability score
and use this ability modifier to determine your spell attack
rolls and spell DCs.
Psyche Action This is a unique ability you can use while your
Psyche is Unleashed.
EMOTIONAL ACCEPTANCE
The mind’s truths come not in learned words or mathematical
formulas but in deeper feelings and sensations. Emotions
unlock the door to your power—you might consider your
heart the source of your strength, or you might find that the
infinite complexity felt in a moment expresses your power
more efficiently than any string of mystic words ever could.
Your thought components are emotions. You might
summon the sense of freedom to buoy you through the air
or let fear grip your heart even as you plant it in another’s
mind. Emotion components tend to impart abstract or vivid
effects to your visual and auditory spell manifestations as
well as more intangible flashes of emotion, such as swirls of
joyous color or a sense of growing melancholy.
Key Ability Your key ability score is Charisma.
Psyche Action Restore the Mind
RESTORE THE MIND [one-action]
EMOTION
ENCHANTMENT
HEALING
MENTAL
PSYCHE
PSYCHIC
Your unleashed psyche gives you closer connections to the
emotions of your allies, letting you project reassurance and
strength that replenishes their mind and body. Choose one of
the two benefits to grant one ally within 30 feet that you can
see. That ally is then temporarily immune for 10 minutes.
•	 The ally gains a +1 status bonus to saving throws against
mental effects until your psyche ends.
•	 The ally regains Hit Points equal to 2 + double your level.
GATHERED LORE
Many psychics are self-taught, frantically improvising how
to best control their abilities before their power overwhelms
them. Not you. Tutored by a mentor or classically trained
at a facility for psychic development, you’ve learned
techniques and teachings for best harnessing the mind,
cataloging each expression of psychic power with a specific
teaching, anecdote, or phrase.
Your thought components are mantras you associate with
a given spell, which you mentally repeat as you cast. You
might silently utter a teaching of resilience as you spin force
into a barrier or hear the first three notes of a traveling song
as you slip through space. Mantra components often produce
runes or symbols from your learnings that are unique to each
spell you cast, causing your spell manifestations to resemble
those of conventional spellcasters to a much greater degree
than those of other psychics.
Key Ability Your key ability score is Intelligence.
Psyche Action Recall the Teachings
RECALL THE TEACHINGS [one-action]
DIVINATION
OCCULT
PSYCHE
PSYCHIC
The heightened power of your psyche lets you recall every
lesson you’ve ever learned. You search your mind for the right
teaching, which at first seems cryptic but comes into clarity
when it’s most relevant. Until the start of your next turn, you
count as having prepared to Aid all allies within 30 feet of you.
If you use the Aid reaction to help one of them during that time,
1515
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
21551561
21551561
21551561
35556
435556
435556
