paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
21551721
21551721
21551721
35
6
435716
435716
Introduction
The
Archivist’s
Training
Manual
The Stolen
Casefiles
Cryptids
Secret
Societies
Deviant
Abilities
Mirrors and
Imposters
Cults
Curses and
Pacts
Pacts Witch
Patron
Cursed Items
Tempting
Curses
Bargained
Contracts
Pactbinder
Archetype
Curse
Maelstrom
Archetype
Wishes in
Krasnoprudny
Temporal
Anomalies
Mindscapes
Spell &
Item Lists,
Glossary &
Index
Dark
Archive
If the PCs try to explain the situation to the two fey
though, a problem arises. No matter how delicately or
diplomatically they make their case, Ded Bolota grumbles
that he can’t just go around lifting spells from villages for
no good reason. Its un-fey-like! People would talk! He
couldn’t look Ded Moroz (Grandfather Frost, a powerful
Irriseni fey of winter) in the face!
At this point, a clever PC might notice the cards, recall
what they were told earlier about fey loving games, and
suggest a bet or game instead. If no PC does so, either
prompt them with a DC 24 Nature check or have Ded
Bereza suggest it. A quick game, something with stakes. If
the PCs win, the curse is lifted. If the PCs lose, well... what
would they like to wager? The fey will accept a gift (any
permanent magic item of 9th level or higher will do), a
single character’s service for a year and a day, or any other
half-reasonable suggestion that the PCs might make.
ANTE UP!
When Ded Bolota and Ded Bereza
play their fey version of durak,
fey magic links the PCs to their
cards via their own wits and
skills. The fey play with four
unusual suits, each of which
allows for different skills. To
win, the PCs must each take turns
selecting a suit to try to score Victory
Points using the Play the Fool activity.
The DC for the skill checks is initially
24, but for each Victory Point the PCs
gain using a given suit, the DC increases
by 2, as the fey’s hands grow more formidable
in that suit, to a maximum of DC 30 after gaining 3
Victory Points from that suit. If the PCs succeed at the
DC 30 check (or critically succeed at a DC 28 check),
they’ve exhausted that suit entirely. The PCs win if they
gain 8 Victory Points before the fey do.
Alternatively, if your group would enjoy it, you can
break out a deck of cards and resolve things in person
by playing durak in real life. In durak, it’s best to have
relatively even teams, so the GM takes the role of
Ded Bolota, one player becomes Ded Bereza, and the
remaining players are themselves.
Some PCs may attempt to use skills, spells, or other
abilities to give them an edge in the game or even outright
cheat. You can reward clever use of a character’s abilities
by giving that PC or one of their allies a +1 or +2 bonus to
their check, especially if they expend resources such as spell
slots or items to do so; however, the grandfathers have seen
most tricks in the book, and while they appreciate a bit
of creative flair, they grow annoyed at excessive cheating.
Generally, a PC should get a bonus in this way only once; if
they attempt it a second time, one of the two says, “I really
wish you’d cut that out,” and the wish-granting curse
renders further attempts to bend the odds futile.
PLAY THE FOOL
EXPLORATION
MANIPULATE
You play a card in the mystical
game of fey fool with Ded Bolota
and Ded Bereza, empowering
your attack with your own
skills, based on the suit you selected.
Choose the suit of spring, summer,
fall, or winter. For spring, attempt an
Acrobatics, Nature, or Performance
check. For summer, attempt an
Arcana, Diplomacy, or Society check.
For fall, attempt an Athletics, Deception,
or Religion check. For winter, attempt an
Intimidation, Occultism, or Survival check. The
outcome depends on your check result.
If a PC has Games Lore or a similar type of Lore skill, they
can roll this skill check instead of the required one; if they do
so, the DC is 5 lower. Only one PC can roll Games Lore in this
way during the competition, and they can do so only once.
Critical Success You gain 2 Victory Points.
Success You gain 1 Victory Point.
Failure The fey gain 1 Victory Point.
Critical Failure The fey gain 2 Victory Points.
Conclusion
If the PCs manage to get Ded Bolota to lift the curse,
all supernatural effects are instantly reversed, and the
PCs are hailed as heroes when they return to town. The
village isn’t able to offer them any more rewards, but
the PCs are stuffed with as much food as they can eat
(though it’s probably mostly buckwheat porridge).
If the PCs are unsuccessful, then in the course of
the following weeks and months, Krasnoprudny is
gradually abandoned, as the villagers decide to leave
before someone is killed. They take what they can with
them, but they are nevertheless leaving their homes and
their fields behind. The fey take years to realize what
they did wrong.
FEARSOME FEY
Some PCs might consider fighting the fey, but
succeeding at a DC 21 Nature check confirms that
this would likely end in the PCs’ death. The two fey
are very powerful, and in their realm would likely
grind the PCs into the snow if provoked. In the event
that the PCs nevertheless decide to attack, use
the stats for a rusalka for Ded Bolota (Pathfinder
Bestiary 2 229) and an arboreal archive with the
fey trait for Ded Bereza (Bestiary 3 21) with suitable
cosmetic alterations. This is even more difficult than
an extreme encounter, but it’s distantly possible
that an incredibly lucky and skillful team of PCs
might win. While the fey meant no harm, killing
them also ends the curse.
175
175
Ded Bereza
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
21551721
21551721
21551721
35
6
435716
435716
