paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
21551711
21551711
21551711
35 06
435706
435706
Introduction
The
Archivist’s
Training
Manual
The Stolen
Casefiles
Cryptids
Secret
Societies
Deviant
Abilities
Mirrors and
Imposters
Cults
Curses and
Pacts
Pacts Witch
Patron
Cursed Items
Tempting
Curses
Bargained
Contracts
Pactbinder
Archetype
Curse
Maelstrom
Archetype
Wishes in
Krasnoprudny
Temporal
Anomalies
Mindscapes
Spell &
Item Lists,
Glossary &
Index
Dark
Archive
the true generic appearance from your bargained contract.
This allows you to duck out of sight and remove the facial
component of your disguise almost immediately, though
clothing or other elements might still give you away.
KEY TO THE STOMACH
ITEM 9
RARE
CONTRACT
INVESTED
MAGICAL
Whether due to the inconvenience of having a physical body
or the desperation of impending starvation, you were drawn
to a person offering relief from hunger. You swallowed a key,
which remains in your stomach, that continuously satiates
you. You no longer need to eat or drink. Once per day, from
any distance, the entity that holds your bargained contract
can have the key sealing your bargained contract
absorb all items in your stomach, which prevents you
from benefiting from items that require you to eat or
drink them, such as potions and elixirs, for 10 minutes.
During this time, the entity gains the benefits of these
items instead.
Activate [two-actions] command; Frequency once per day;
Effect You absorb any poisons with the key sealing
your bargained contract. You gain the benefits of a
casting of neutralize poison.
LOST EMBER
ITEM 10
RARE
CONTRACT
INVESTED
MAGICAL
Sealed with a vial containing the ashes from your
childhood home, you traded the memories of your
early life to stay focused on the present, allowing
you to avoid distractions during combat. Once per
day, from any distance, the entity that holds your
bargained contract can take one of your memories.
This functions as a casting of modify memory that doesn’t
grant you a saving throw and can’t be reversed by any means
without stealing the memory back first.
Activate [free-action] command; Frequency once per day; Trigger You
start your turn flat-footed or confused; Effect A speck of
ash from the vial sealing your bargained contract appears
out of nowhere on your tongue, bringing your senses into
focus. You suppress the flat-footed or confused condition
until the start of your next turn. You can use this free action
when you are confused, even though you normally can’t
take actions of your choice when confused.
STONE OF UNRIVALED SKILL
ITEM 17
RARE
CONTRACT
INVESTED
MAGICAL
You traded your senses to a hag for unrivaled expertise stolen
from various souls who were once the greatest in their field.
Your bargained contract is sealed by sleeping with a pitch-black
stone under your pillow every night. Choose one skill when
you seal this bargained contract. You become an expert in that
skill; if you were already an expert, you become a master, and
if you were already a master, you become legendary. Once
per day, from any distance, the hag that holds your contract
can take over your senses for 10 minutes, during which time
the hag hears, sees, smells, tastes, and feels everything you
would typically experience. During this time, you are dazzled
by your own disjointed senses.
Activate [two-actions] command; Frequency once per day; Effect You
place the stone sealing your bargained contract in your
mouth. For the next 10 minutes, you gain a +3 status bonus
to skill checks using the skill you chose for your contract.
VIAL OF THE IMMORTAL WELLSPRING
ITEM 20
RARE
CONTRACT
INVESTED
MAGICAL
At a wellspring, you gave your blood to a force of nature and
received a vial from the wellspring’s heart in return. Once per 10
minutes, when your dying value would increase above 3, you
instead become unconscious and are no longer dying; this doesn’t
prevent you from being killed by death effects or the doomed
condition. Once per day, from any distance, the entity that
holds your bargained contract can possess you and control
your actions, leaving you unaware of what goes on. This
possession automatically succeeds, regardless of any
countermeasures you might take. Normally this lasts for
only 1 round if during an encounter, or no longer than a
few minutes during exploration. However, the more you
rely on the power of the wellspring’s heart to survive
death, the longer it can possess you the next time it
chooses to do so, doubling the amount of time with each
use, to a maximum duration of 1 day. Once the entity
possesses you, this duration resets.
Activate [two-actions] command; Frequency once per day;
Effect You drink from the vial of water that seals your
bargained contract. You gain the effects of a 9th-level,
2-action heal spell.
SELF-EMPTYING POCKET
ITEM 9
RARE
CONTRACT
INVESTED
MAGICAL
You never perform to an empty crowd after promising any
profits to a phantom in a playhouse, sealed by holes that appear
in your pockets. By meeting with the attendees at your events,
you can use Performance instead of Diplomacy to Gather
Information. When you would use Performance to Earn Income,
you don’t earn any gold pieces, as the money disappears before
you can even count it.
The entity that holds your bargained contract can influence
your reception any time you perform for a crowd or Activate
the pocket. If they influence your performance favorably,
you gain a +2 item bonus to your Performance check. If they
influence your performance unfavorably, you gain a -2 item
penalty to your Performance check. If you’ve failed to earn
the entity money in quite a while, it typically influences your
performance unfavorably.
Activate [two-actions] command, envision; Frequency once per day;
Effect You exercise all of your charm on a creature, turning
a chance meeting into an impromptu performance that
commands attention. Attempt a single Performance check
against the Perception DC of the creature. On a success, the
creature is affected as though by a successful Deception
check to Create a Diversion. The entity that holds your
contract can influence this performance as well.
165
165
Lost Ember
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
21551711
21551711
21551711
35 06
435706
435706
