paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
21551757
21551757
21551757
35 5
435752
435752
Introduction
The
Archivist’s
Training
Manual
The Stolen
Casefiles
Cryptids
Secret
Societies
Deviant
Abilities
Mirrors and
Imposters
Cults
Curses and
Pacts
Temporal
Anomalies
Mindscapes
Mindscape
Statistics
Psychic
Duels
Psychic
Duelist
Archetype
Mind Smith
Archetype
Sleepwalker
Archetype
The Last
Dream
Spell &
Item Lists,
Glossary &
Index
Dark
Archive
A strange, dreamlike space, littered with objects jutting out
of the plane or floating at odd angles with impossible gravity,
extends in all directions. The “ground” beneath you is marked
with a geometric symbol, split faintly into four parts that
extend in each cardinal direction—if such things even matter
in this strange realm.
THE CENTRAL GATE
Having made it through the mindscape’s defenses, the PCs
have landed in the exact center of the Storybook proper,
where all four sections of the mindscape intersect. Various
objects jut at odd angles out of the “ground,” which,
despite seeming like open space, is solid, like a pane of
glass made from pure color.
PCs who succeed at a DC 30 Arcana or Occultism check
realize that of the various symbols on the ground, one—
the blue circle with a white center—is some kind of gate
that will lead deeper into the mindscape, if only it could be
assembled completely. Upon succeeding at this check, they
also realize the mindscape can be rearranged if the correct
anchor objects are found, which are likely located in each
area marked by the segments of the symbol on the ground.
Rearrangements: The realm is divided in four
rectangular sections that can both rotate and swap with
each other. As the mindscape can shift freely and often,
consider using four separate flip-mats, print-outs, or other
types of map at your game table that you can rearrange
as the mindscape shifts; if playing digitally, consider
preparing multiple map files or layers. Controlling a
section of the Storybook requires that a creature have
the “anchor” for that section—a metaphysical object
that enables the creature to Reshape the Mindscape. A
creature can have only one anchor, though it can willingly
relinquish the anchor if it chooses. An anchor leaves any
creature that falls unconscious.
RESHAPE THE MINDSCAPE [two-actions]
CONCENTRATION
MANIPULATE
Requirements You have the anchor for a given section of the
Storybook.
You impose your will on the Storybook to alter its structure.
Choose one of the following effects, which applies to the
section of map for which you have the anchor.
Rearrange You swap the position of your section of map with
another. To use this ability, you and the anchor-holder for
the other section must agree to the transposition.
Redirect You create a momentary redirection of gravity
toward one of the four edges of the map, causing creatures
to fall in that direction until they hit the edge of the map
or an obstacle, or until they cross into a new section of
map with normal gravity. Creatures who fall more than 40
feet within the Storybook are affected by a feather fall
effect, as they have time to subconsciously reject the false
reality of the mindscape.
Reorient You rotate the section of map by 90 degrees, either
clockwise or counterclockwise.
A. THE CHILDHOOD BEDROOM
LOW 12
This cozy bedroom clearly belongs to an inquisitive child.
Sturdy shelves next to the four-poster bed contain storybooks
and friendly informational volumes on the wonders of Golarion.
Creature: A metaphorical manifestation of K.H.W.’s
childhood curiosity has taken the form of a shining child
and inhabited this bedroom. The sight of strangers excites
the astral creature, who attempts to get the PCs to tell him
a story. While the shining child has no intention of letting
the PCs leave alive, if a PC tells him a good story and
succeeds at a DC 29 Performance or Society check, the
shining child is so engrossed he forgets he can Reshape the
Mindscape and doesn’t use this ability during the ensuing
combat. If the PCs don’t tell a satisfactory story (or refuse
to attempt one), the shining child attacks anyway.
ELITE SHINING CHILD
CREATURE 13
Pathfinder Bestiary 6, 292
Initiative Perception +25
Reshape the Mindscape The shining child controls the anchor
for section A.
Treasure: Defeating the shining child causes a mystical
tome, the anchor for this section of the mindscape, to
emerge from the bookshelf by the bed. When a PC takes
possession of the tome, it fuses into their body, granting
them the ability to Reshape the Mindscape on section A
of the map.
B. THE IRONWORKS
Three valves protrude from the wall above a polished dial and
mechanical wheel. A few feet away, the pipes empty into a
round glass flask.
The valves and machinery here represent K.H.W.’s comfort
with his fellow archivists, knowing that every part of
their larger endeavor is operating well. The anchor for
this section of map—a dial polished to a mirror sheen—
can be easily removed from the machinery, but doing so
releases steam that deals 6d6 fire damage (DC 32 basic
Reflex save) to any creature within a 20-foot emanation
of the wheel when the dial is removed.
Treasure: The mirror in the face of the dial is the anchor
for this section of the map. When a PC takes possession of
the mirror, it fuses into their body, granting them the ability
to Reshape the Mindscape on section B of the map.
C1. THE TREE OF TIME
This large fig tree quickly cycles through its life phases:
sprouting new leaves, blooming, bearing fruit, and withering.
Only a list of virtues, carved in Tien into its bark, remains
unchanged as the tree morphs.
211
211
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
21551757
21551757
21551757
35 5
435752
435752
