paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
21551740
21551740
21551740
35 35
435735
435735
Unleashing Potential
Clue 1: The first half of the book is all philosophy. In
frenzied handwriting, it discusses how one unleashes
potential by borrowing from others. Any character trained
in Occultism or master in Perception recognizes that the
intent behind the words is not as benign as it seems.
Clue 2: The book discusses the summoning of a creature
known as the morrowkin, a creature whose sole purpose
is to “borrow” the future of others by making a feast for
dozens. It collects a large wellspring of energy and grants it
to its summoner before returning home. Characters trained
in Arcana or Occultism, or who are a master in Perception,
recognize conspicuous amounts of missing information.
Clue 3: The ritual itself is detailed properly, but a
character who is of master proficiency in Arcana or
Occultism recognizes something is wrong with the feast.
The runes in the example in the book indicate the feast is
not for a dozen guests, but is of those guests. A PC who is
trained in Deception recognizes that this “mistake” in the
diagram is an intentional deception. Regardless of the PCs’
training, they realize that since the morrowkin is sustained
by the metaphysical feast, it might be vulnerable to mortal
food, allowing them to understand how to spend an action
to sicken the morrowkin via its Disgusted by Food ability.
Solving Your Problems
Clue 1: This book discusses how magic isn’t a tool to solve
your problems but rather to give you what you need to
solve them yourself. It gives several examples of how the
author just needed extra time to think about her problems
from different perspectives to make lasting progress.
Clue 2: The book describes how to summon the Knife
of Trouble Elimination, an artifact that allows one to keep
looking at their problems. Once the root of the problems is
found, the wielder can cut it out as if it never existed and
carry on with their life.
Clue 3: The ritual for summoning the knife describes
many different components (they can be found in A5),
while also revealing that the knife requires a final step to
become properly empowered.
Awakening the Knife: PCs who read through all of Rui
Longlai’s journal and Solving your Problems realize that
Rui never completed the final step to awaken the knife.
Once the PCs have located the knife, they can complete
this ritual, which requires 30 minutes, a drop of blood,
and a successful DC 27 Occultism check or DC 29 Arcana,
Nature, or Religion check. As the knife’s existence is tied to
the temporal anomaly, once it is empowered in any loop, it
remains empowered across all time loops.
A3. PRIVATE DINING ROOM
LOW 10
The door to this room is locked with a combination
lock and a series of layers that make breaking through
laborious, requiring a DC 27 check and 10 minutes to
Pick a Lock (or a DC 29 check and 10 minutes to Force
Open). Successfully Picking the Lock also allows the PC to
reverse‑engineer the combination, enabling them to open
the door normally on subsequent loops.
A ritual circle takes up the center of this room, its perimeter
outlined by several silver talismans. Ornate dining tables
are pushed to the side. The scent of burnt sandalwood and
medicinal herbs hangs in the air.
This private dining hall is where Rui and his friend Jiudu
Xien (N female ghost gnome accountant) first performed the
ritual to summon the morrowkin. Rui completed his part of
the ritual a bit before Jiudu, then left the room for some last-
minute preparations elsewhere. Once Jiudu completed the
ritual, the morrowkin was summoned and made her its first
victim, devouring her potential and fate before she could
fight back. The remnants of her spirit lurk here.
Loop 1: Jiudu immediately attacks the PCs, fighting
with desperation. After 3 rounds of fighting or if she is
brought down to half of her Hit Points, PCs can spend
an action to attempt a DC 29 Diplomacy check to get her
to talk. Once she begins talking, Jiudu tells the PCs that
her last memories were of performing the ritual when
everything went suddenly black, after which she awoke
as a ghost. When asked about the ritual, Jiudu says she
thought something seemed off about it, yet she decided to
go through it anyway to help her old friend.
Loop 2: As the previous loop, but Jiudu requires only a
DC 27 Diplomacy check to convince and can be persuaded
from the first round with any amount of HP remaining.
Loop 3: Jiudu appears but has become aware enough of
the time loop that her starting attitude toward the PCs is
already friendly.
JIUDU XIEN
CREATURE 11
Elite ghost mage (Bestiary 6, 167)
Perception +19; darkvision
Learning the Knife: While Jiudu was not aware that
Rui had created a Knife of Trouble Elimination, she does
know of the ritual that created the morrowkin and how it
might be defeated. Once she has become friendly with the
PCs, she teaches them that a special maneuver, performed
with a sufficiently empowered object, could be used to cut
the morrowkin out of the timestream. PCs who spend 30
minutes performing a training drill with Jiudu learn the
Untether from Time action.
Hope Talismans: The talismans on the floor are hope
talismans, used to bind the morrowkin’s spirit in the early
part of the ritual. There are as many hope talismans as
there are PCs.
Bypassing Jiudu: Jiudu’s research into temporal magic
taught her many best practices for time travelers, such as
establishing a “personal passphrase” told to no one—that
way, if someone ever utters her personal passphrase to her,
she knows it is her future self, or someone sent at her future
self’s direction. The first time the PCs successfully speak
194
194
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
21551740
21551740
21551740
35 35
435735
435735
