paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
21551585
21551585
21551585
35580
435580
435580
Introduction
The
Archivist’s
Training
Manual
Psychic Class
Thaumaturge
Class
Psychic
Archetype
Thaumaturge
Archetype
The Stolen
Casefiles
Spell &
Item Lists,
Glossary &
Index
Dark
Archive
MIRROR’S REFLECTION [one-action]
ILLUSION
MAGICAL
MANIPULATE
THAUMATURGE
Requirements You’re holding your mirror implement.
You reflect an illusory image of yourself into another
unoccupied space within 15 feet that you can see. You
are treated as being in both spaces until the start of your
next turn. For example, you can attack, Seek, and provide
flanking—even with yourself. You occupy both spaces.
Your mirror self mimics your actions exactly, but any
effects you generate come from only one of your positions;
you decide which each time you act. For example, if you
made a melee Strike against a creature within reach of the
reflection, you’d mime the actions of the Strike, but only the
reflection would actually make the Strike. Anything that
targets or would affect your reflection affects you and uses
your statistics. Something that would target or affect both
of you affects you only once. For example, a fireball that
included both of you in its area would require only one save
from you and damage you no more than once. When you
move, you choose which square to move from, but the mirror
effect ends (see below).
Some events force you to determine which image is the
real you, and then end the effect and cause your mirror self
to disappear; this happens automatically at the start of your
next turn. It also happens if you choose to move out of your
space. Other benefits of this implement add more events
that can end the reflection. The effect also ends when you
fall unconscious, at which point you decide which version is
truly you.
Adept Benefit
7th
Your mirror self shatters into punishing shards when
damaged. While Mirror’s Reflection is in effect, when an
enemy adjacent to one of your spaces damages you, that
version of you explodes into mirror shards. This ends
Mirror’s Reflection (establishing the remaining version
of you as the real one) and deals slashing damage to
all creatures in a 5-foot emanation around where your
mirror self was. The damage is equal to 2 + half your
level or the damage of the triggering attack, whichever is
lower. You’re immune to this damage.
Intensify Vulnerability
9th
Reinforcing your mirror lets it play tricks on your enemy’s
senses as it bends light this way or that. You become
concealed to the target of your Exploit Vulnerability
as your mirror warps its perceptions. As normal for
concealment where your overall location is still obvious,
you can’t use this concealment to Hide or Sneak.
Paragon Benefit
17th
You’ve become so skilled at reflecting yourself that
you can combine making a reflection with your other
movements to act right away. When you use Mirror’s
Reflection, you can have one of your selves immediately
Interact, Seek, or Strike.
REGALIA
Regalia implements represent rulership, leadership,
and social connections. While they differ in shape
depending on regional customs and markers used to
signify authority, common regalia implements are
scepters, jeweled orbs, and heraldic banners. Regalia
implements are associated with the harrow suit of
crowns and the astrological signs of the patriarch and
the sovereign dragon.
Initiate Benefit
While you hold your regalia, you gain an air of authority
and bolster the courage of allies who believe in you.
Your regalia aids you when you attempt to convince
others. You gain a +1 circumstance bonus to Deception,
Diplomacy, and Intimidation checks. Allies who can see
you can use Follow the Expert to follow you even if
you’re only trained in a skill and not an expert, due
to the competence you clearly exude. When they do,
the circumstance bonus they gain from Following the
Expert is +1.
When you are holding your regalia, you gain an
inspiring aura that stokes the courage of you and all
allies in a 15-foot emanation who can see you, granting
them a +1 status bonus to saving throws against fear. At
the end of your turn, at the same time you would reduce
your frightened value by 1, you reduce the frightened
value of all allies within your inspiring aura by 1. Your
aura has the emotion, mental, and visual traits.
Adept Benefit
7th
Your regalia’s power increases, and so do the abilities it
grants. The circumstance bonus you gain to Deception,
Diplomacy, and Intimidation increases to +2, as long as
you have master proficiency in each skill. When others
use Follow the Expert to follow you, you grant them
a +2 circumstance bonus if you are trained, +3 if you
have expert proficiency, or +4 if you have master or
legendary proficiency.
The courage your aura instills grows stronger. The +1
status bonus now applies to all saving throws against
mental effects, rather than only against fear, and you
and allies in your aura gain a +2 status bonus to damage
rolls. At 11th level, this increases to a +3 status bonus
to damage rolls, and at 17th level, this increases to a +4
status bonus to damage rolls.
Intensify Vulnerability
9th
Your regalia implement makes you seem more
confident and inspiring with each success. Whenever
you successfully Strike the target of your Exploit
Vulnerability, choose an ally that you can see. That ally
gains a +1 circumstance bonus to its attack rolls against
the creature until the beginning of your next turn. If the
attack roll was a critical hit, the circumstance bonus
increases to +2.
39
39
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
21551585
21551585
21551585
35580
435580
435580
