paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
21551726
21551726
21551726
35
435721
435721
The anomaly in question involved a town trapped in
a self-stabilizing time loop that caused
every day to be the day before
Fireday. It wasn’t simply that
we repeated every day,
nor that every day was
Oathday, but more like
a determinate amount
of
time
disappeared
regularly to cause this
phenomenon—a
very
different circumstance
from the Near-Midnight
Incident. The temporality
of the town was vastly offset
from the rest of the world, and,
much like Xin-Edasseril, the town
housed valuable historical information, of
which Archivist Laufent gladly dedicated herself
to documenting.
Further investigation into the origin led
to the discovery of a small timepiece of
indeterminate design. It initially appeared
to have been crafted in Imperial Shu, but it
bears unmistakably Thassilonian engravings. The
disappearing time appears to have been used to continue
the operation of the object, almost like an energy
source. Once removed from its pedestal, of a much
older design—possibly even dating back to the Shory
Empire—a sputtering sound occurred for about half a
minute. The loop then ceased to function.
Field testing of the timepiece revealed that depressing
one of the buttons would “consume” time in a small
area, logically following from the circumstances of the
village. Were it not for the weeks we had been missing
with no contact, we would’ve tested it more extensively.
The object was sealed in the vault for further study,
while other archivists were sent to monitor and research
the pedestal, which was stored separately under three
layers of wards.
As far as time loops are concerned, none is more
representative than the Near-Midnight Incident. An
approximately 12-minute closed time loop spontaneously
began in Absalom, localized somewhere near the Grand
Lodge, culminating in an explosion that marked the
recursion point of the loop. Fortunately, the vaults
seemed to be at the edge of the included radius, allowing
archivists to observe and eventually neutralize the
phenomenon, with some difficulty, as memories did not
carry over between loops. Luckily, exposure to previous
temporal anomalies (of any type) seemed effective in
priming the body to sense the seams; most experienced
archivists realized a loop was happening, even if they
couldn’t remember what happened. Some experienced
echoes, specifically Archivist Vyi, who has always been
sensitive to visions.
The event was that a small idol, being carried through
Absalom after being identified, was carelessly dropped,
causing an emergency self-preservation function to
activate. Archivists in the vaults recognized
the situation, deduced the center
of the incident, and hastily
convinced a Society member
upstairs to run full-sprint,
catching the object a
mere split second before
it shattered upon the
ground. While difficult to
ascertain the exact number
of loops we experienced,
the ringing headache I was left
with after the incident suggests it was
decidedly more than a handful.
Outstanding File: The Deathless Case
Time loops are frustrating in that their
manifestations rarely abide by the same
rules, true for most classes of temporal
anomalies, but abnormally true for loops
specifically. There has long been a strange
rumor in Quain that I knew, I just knew, could not be
false, which concerns a town in the Wall of Heaven.
We set out through the mountains, which swayed like
reeds in the mist. There was no path to follow. Just the
persistent feeling of being led somewhere. The nature
of being an archivist means we follow every childhood
inclination to believe in outrageous stories—fairy tales
often have more than a modicum of truth behind them.
The temple we found was truly a sight, jutting
proudly from the stone. As if expecting us, a contingent
of monks guided us through the doors. They led us into
a palace-sized complex with designs coming straight
from the Yixing Imperial Era, centered around a strange
persimmon tree that seemed to exist in multiple times at
once, a fact which, though we could see it with our own
eyes, was difficult to swallow nonetheless.
Quite a few of our questions went unanswered, but
we were able to discern the primary mechanic of this
phenomenon: those who lived here could not die. Upon
passing, naturally or otherwise, the inhabitants of this
temple would invariably revert to the form of a newborn
infant, born again with no memory of their previous
life. Complete blank slate. The adults and elders seemed
to eat no food at all, subsisting entirely off of the latent
energy in the air, but a humble vegetable garden and a
handful of goats were kept to provide sustenance for
the recently “born.” It’s our working theory that these
individuals have internalized time loops that cause this
rebirth, though it’s entirely possible that the temple itself
is a loop site. Testing proves difficult, as not a single
member of the temple wished to leave. Case recorded
and shelved for followup.
180
180
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
21551726
21551726
21551726
35
435721
435721
