paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
21551627
21551627
21551627
356
435622
435622
Introduction
The
Archivist’s
Training
Manual
The Stolen
Casefiles
Cryptids
Secret
Societies
Occult Skill
Feats
Secret
Society
Member
Secret
Society Gear
Secret
Society
Membership
Services
Shaking
the Helping
Hand
Deviant
Abilities
Mirrors and
Imposters
Cults
Curses and
Pacts
Temporal
Anomalies
Mindscapes
Spell &
Item Lists,
Glossary &
Index
Dark
Archive
by most onlookers. A creature specifically gauging the
conversation, such as with Sense Motive, can attempt
a secret Perception check against the secret society
member’s Deception DC to notice something secret has
been communicated, after which they can attempt a
Society check against the same DC. On a success, they
discover the rough topic of the message; on a critical
success, they discover the exact message.
Additional Abilities
A given secret society member gains two to three of the
following abilities, as befit the nature of their secret society
and their role within that society. For instance, a society
among the downtrodden, planning a violent uprising, might
grant the tag team ability, whereas a society within a
wealthy aristocracy might be unwilling to get its hands dirty
and grant the get out of jail ability instead.
Get out of Jail It’s almost impossible to force the secret
society member to face the consequences of their actions.
Their society has fingers in the halls of law and justice,
and where it can’t sway the verdict, it can at least arrange
the escape. When the secret society member would be
brought to justice for their crimes, they attempt a Society
check against a simple DC, depending on the severity
of their crimes and the exposure of the evidence to the
public. This is typically an expert simple DC of 20.
Critical Success Not only is the secret society member
exonerated but they also manage to stay clean in
the eyes of the public. Those who attempted to bring
them to justice are called in for harassment, libel, filing
frivolous charges, or other trumped-up indictments.
Success The secret society member is declared not guilty
and exonerated of their crimes in the eyes of the law.
Failure While the secret society member is initially
declared guilty, they’re released on a technicality, or
manage to bribe or sneak their way out. While they’re
free, their reputation has been damaged.
Critical Failure Justice prevails, and the secret society
member can’t escape their sentence. Their society likely
cuts ties with them and might turn to more dramatic
means to ensure they can’t expose the society.
Not Today! [reaction] Frequency once per day; Trigger The secret
society member is reduced to 0 Hit Points; Effect Whether
it’s a fellow society member waiting in the wings to spirit
them away, a clever contraption, a contingent spell, or
some other means, a secret society member always has an
escape plan. Instead of being reduced to 0 Hit Points, the
secret society member remains at 1 Hit Point. They gain
temporary Hit Points equal to their level and then Stride
twice. If they have the appropriate forms of movement,
they can instead choose to Burrow, Climb, Fly, or Swim.
Prepared Diversion [free-action] Frequency once per hour; Effect The
secret society member has fellow members in all sorts of
places, ready to make a distraction to help them duck from
sight or make a quick attack against their foe. The secret
society member either Creates a Diversion or Feints. If they
Create a Diversion, it doesn’t gain either the auditory,
linguistic, or manipulate trait (since someone else has
provided the diversion), and onlookers who have already
been diverted by the secret society member don’t receive
a +4 circumstance bonus against the attempt. If they Feint,
they don’t need to be in melee reach of their target, and the
benefit applies to both melee and ranged attacks against
their target.
Prepared Trap [one-action] Frequency once per hour; Effect The secret
society member’s agents trapped the area in advance, and
the secret society member arms one such snare. The secret
society member chooses an unoccupied space within 60
feet and activates a snare hidden there; the snare can be
any common snare of the secret society’s member’s level –
2 or lower (minimum level 1). From this point on, creatures
can trigger the snare as normal. During the activation, the
secret society member must attempt a Deception check
against the Perception DCs of creatures observing them;
on a failure, those creatures realize where the secret
society member activated the snare.
Skill Savvy The secret society member has a few tricks
most others do not. They gain two of the following skill
feats: Charming Liar, Courtly Graces, Glean Contents,
Hobnobber, Lengthy Diversion, Lie to Me, Quick
Coercion, or Streetwise. If they are at least 2nd level,
they can also choose from among the following: Discreet
Inquiry, Glad Hand, or Lasting Coercion. If they are at
least 7th level, they can also choose Shameless Request
or Slippery Secrets.
Tag Team A secret society member works best with other
members of the same society (whether they have the
secret society member adjustment and this ability or
not). Any creature is flat-footed against a secret society
member’s melee attacks due to flanking as long as the
enemy is within both the secret society member’s reach
and the reach of one allied creature that is a member of
the same secret society. Against a creature within the
reach of two or more allied creatures that are members
of the same secret society, the secret society member’s
Strikes deal an additional 1d6 precision damage.
SECRET SOCIETY MEMBERS IN GOLARION
Golarion is a world of many secrets, so it’s
unsurprisingly full of secret societies. While some
such organizations exist in isolated settlements and
might be so ubiquitous within those communities
as to encompass nearly the entire populace,
secret societies are more common in urban
areas. The regions heaviest with secret societies
include decadent nobilities with storied pasts like
Taldor and Ustalav, intrigue-laden courts of the
successor states to Imperial Lung Wa in Tian Xia,
and cosmopolitan metropolises like Absalom and
Katapesh. Since Goka falls into two of these three
categories, it’s especially rife with secret societies.
8181
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
21551627
21551627
21551627
356
435622
435622
