paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
21551697
21551697
21551697
3569
435692
435692
Introduction
The
Archivist’s
Training
Manual
The Stolen
Casefiles
Cryptids
Secret
Societies
Deviant
Abilities
Mirrors and
Imposters
Cults
Living Vessel
Archetype
Apocryphal
Domain
Spells
Cult Rituals
The Verdure
of Iblydos
Curses and
Pacts
Temporal
Anomalies
Mindscapes
Spell &
Item Lists,
Glossary &
Index
Dark
Archive
nearby with quite a large following herself. In addition
to providing medicinal services to the town, Thalia and
Denes maintain a healthy business selling potions. If the
PCs succeed at a DC 22 Diplomacy check to Make an
Impression, the healers give each PC a free minor healing
potion as a sample, hoping for future business.
A4. THE GIVING CEREMONY
Next to the meditation chamber is a greenhouse full of
large reflective crystals. As the day reaches afternoon,
several followers begin leaving presents by the reflective
surfaces—nail clippings, cut hair, and even what looks to
be peeled-off dry skin. Hyacinth explains that for the ritual
to work to its fullest potential, everyone must leave a bit of
themselves behind to ascend. What ascension looks like is
different for each person, but for him, he’s hoping that he
could see his twin sister who had passed away, even if it’s
just for a moment. He leaves a lock of his hair by a crystal.
If any PC succeeds at a DC 29 Perception check, they
notice a ghostly figure in the same shape as Hyacinth
touch the other side of the reflection in the crystal. The
figure quickly disappears, swept into the crevices of its
surroundings and unnoticed by anyone else in the room.
If any PCs try to attack the hidden creature, they break the
crystal; followers escort them from the greenhouse and
Hyacinth gives them a disappointed warning. He remains
by them with forgiveness in his eyes, understanding that
the Womb’s ways must seem strange to outsiders.
A5. THE CABINS
In the cabins, followers are preparing for the ritual that
night. A few of them smile through clenched teeth upon
seeing the PCs and some of them chatter their teeth
slightly, as if they weren’t in control of their faces. In the
common area, a man wobbles gently, holding a pastel
flower chain, his eyelids tempting him with sleep. On the
other end of the flower chain is a woman trying to pin it
onto a wall along with the other decorations. The PCs
witness another follower approach and reprimand the
man, who stumbles slightly, wavering in exhaustion. She
reminds him to stay awake lest he ruin the entire ritual.
The PCs can attempt to convince the woman barking
the orders to leave the rest of the followers alone with a DC
22 Diplomacy check to Make a Request or Intimidation
check to Coerce. If successful, she leaves, mumbling that
the decorators are lucky that there are visitors to impress.
If the PCs successfully send her away, the decorators
tell the PCs that they take part in a nightly event that
prevents them from sleeping for more than three hours
a day. Additionally, the decorators hand the PCs a lily
brooch engraved with the name Corella as a thank you.
They claim that it belonged to someone who ascended,
speaking about her with a starstruck adoration.
Corella’s bunk bed is just a few feet away from the
common area; perched against the wooden frame is a
handwritten sign bearing her name. Her bed is neatly
made, but hidden under the mattress is a diary; Searching
PCs can attempt a DC 24 Perception check to locate it. The
latest entry reads as follows.
“I can’t believe I got chosen to be a part of the ritual! I’ve spent
the last few days doing everything Mother told me to, so I must
be doing something right. She even gave me our island’s special
tea to drink, and I’ve been seeing things—my future when I
achieve the next level. I see myself in a beautiful temple, and
I’m the one being worshipped. I can’t wait for it to become real.”
The other entries are about the details on the cost of
the ritual and what she had been sent to retrieve for the
big night: three large quartz crystals, moonflower seeds,
merfolk gemstones, and several willing celebrants, as well
as “a piece of each of them.”
Inlaid with Flowers
As the sun sets, followers with additional tasks scramble to
get them done, while those who have finished sit back on mats
and cushions on the ground, struggling to stay awake. Many
pass elegantly carved stone cups filled with blue herbal tea.
Intoxicating floral aromas sweep through the campsite.
As followers take in the drink, they weep or collapse
momentarily in ecstasy. When asked, they describe
seeing different things—being covered in gold jewelry,
finding the love of their life, or devouring all the sweets
that their heart desires. They guide the PCs to the ritual
site and encourage them to try the tea, claiming that it
temporarily grants psychic abilities and helps folks with
their ascension. PCs who succeed at a DC 24 Medicine
or Nature check to Recall Knowledge discover that the
herb’s hallucinogenic properties simply cause the person
who drinks it to see what they desire. The tea also contains
crystals, forcing the drinker to become linked with Mitera.
A6. THE PRE-ASCENSION CEREMONY
In a cabin by the path that leads to the ritual site, a man
is brewing the same herbal tea the PCs saw the followers
drink, adding in merfolk crystals and seeds. He hands the
PCs cups of the bubbling concoction. If the PCs drink them,
they begin to see what they want the most. Each PC who
drinks must attempt a DC 22 Fortitude save against the
drug’s effects. The PCs receive a result that is one degree
of success better than what they roll because this effect has
the incapacitation trait and is of lower level than the PCs.
Critical Success The tea has a pleasant and refreshing taste, but
it doesn’t affect the drinker’s mind.
Success The drinker experiences 30 minutes of positive emotions.
Failure The drinker feels as though they’re descending into
a pit of calming light and then experiences 30 minutes of
vivid hallucinations. They take a –2 status penalty on all
Perception checks while the hallucinations persist. When the
ritual begins, the drinker is sickened 1.
151
151
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
21551697
21551697
21551697
3569
435692
435692
