paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
21551759
21551759
21551759
35 5
435754
435754
Introduction
The
Archivist’s
Training
Manual
The Stolen
Casefiles
Cryptids
Secret
Societies
Deviant
Abilities
Mirrors and
Imposters
Cults
Curses and
Pacts
Temporal
Anomalies
Mindscapes
Mindscape
Statistics
Psychic
Duels
Psychic
Duelist
Archetype
Mind Smith
Archetype
Sleepwalker
Archetype
The Last
Dream
Spell &
Item Lists,
Glossary &
Index
Dark
Archive
Description The pool sucks in creatures that fall into it, making
them sink into its endless depths.
Disable DC 32 (master) Diplomacy or Deception to quell the
fear and calm the pool or DC 35 Intimidation to give the
pool something worse to fear; three successes required.
Downpour [reaction] Trigger A creature falls into the pool; Effect
More water pours forth from the chalice. Creatures in the
pool become clumsy 1, and they can’t decrease their clumsy
condition so long as they remain in the pool. The trap then
rolls initiative.
Routine (3 actions) Water from the chalice increases the
depth of the water by 10 feet for each action. Each time this
happens, creatures in the pool are pushed 10 feet down and
take 1d6 bludgeoning damage. As the pool has no bottom,
creatures in it can fall down indefinitely; they must Swim
up to avoid drowning, but the water is especially choppy,
so the Athletics DC is 25. The pool never overflows. Each
successful check to Disable reduces the pool’s actions by
1, and once the pool is completely Disabled, the water
becomes still and the Athletics DC to Swim becomes 10.
Reset The trap resets once there are no moving creatures in it.
Treasure: The chalice, the anchor for this section, is
clearly visible as the source of the flood. When a PC takes
possession of the chalice, it fuses into their body, granting
them the ability to Reshape the Mindscape on section D
of the map (and removing the ability from the rusalka, if
they’re still alive).
THROUGH THE CENTRAL GATE
When the PCs have control of all four anchors and
have used them to Reshape the Mindscape, rotating and
rearranging the four areas to complete the blue gate at the
center, the following inscription around the circumference
of the gate becomes clear.
Truth
From here springs forth curiosity, brilliant and joyous
Alone I pursue knowledge, befriending unsettling dreams
Grueling is the work, yet its rewards remain supreme
When the inscription is aloud, the center of the gate
opens and the PCs can proceed through.
E. CENTER OF THE MIND
SEVERE 12
Beyond the gateway, the colors of the memory realm fade away
and everything falls through a black void, drifting further apart.
All around, flashes of mysteries from every corner of Golarion
illuminate the darkness—an unidentified object appearing
in the night sky, a strange dagger trading hands across the
land, a massive claw visible in a thunderstorm. A collection of
rocks comes into view below, floating among the memories.
Red strings connect each memory to another, forming a web
of connections, but all the strings eventually wind their way
toward a humanoid figure, bound in the center of the mindscape.
Use the map on page 212 for this area. Each PC lands
safely on a different chunk of land and will likely try to
make their way towards the figure on the central island.
Though worn and frayed, the ropes that span from island
to island are sturdy enough to cross with a successful
DC 30 Acrobatics check to Balance. If a character slips,
they fall 100 feet before landing (taking falling damage
as normal) in the location they started as space loops
vertically around them in this strange mindscape.
Creature: On the central rock, the figure—a
middle-aged man with unkempt hair and a short beard,
wrapped in red cords—turns his attention from the
kaleidoscope of memories that bloom in the dark, a look
of rapt and wistful attention in the eyes below his bushy
brows. He speaks willingly, and his responses to some of
the PCs’ likely questions are below:
Who are you? / Are you “K.H.W.”? / Are you the
archivist who wrote this folio? “…No. Somewhat?
I’m... an imprint of him, an echo left here in this realm
to guard something. A secret. Something left here
for safekeeping.”
Then, can you tell us about K.H.W. / the Dark Archive?
The Echo is happy to talk to fellow delvers of the
unknown, asking the PCs what they’ve seen and giving
comprehensive (if slightly rambling) answers if asked
about the minutiae of any mystery encountered by the
Dark Archive. Feel free to reveal any of the information in
the incident reports, casefiles, or GM-facing information
in the adventures throughout this book. However, he finds
that any information about deeper secrets of the Dark
Archive, and even the Lone Archivist’s real name, have
been redacted from his mind. If pushed to remember, he
becomes increasingly disoriented and hostile.
What kind of secret do you mean? The Echo unfurls
a hand, and a single crumpled page appears in it. The
page is torn along one edge and clearly matches those of
the Dark Archive folio. “I’m not sure. I can see there’s
writing here, but I can’t make it out. I imagine it’s
been redacted from my view, just like the memories I
can’t remember.”
Can you give it to us? Read or paraphrase the following
to begin the final encounter of the adventure.
A wistful expression crosses the Echo’s face. “Indeed... I’m
supposed to entrust the secret to whoever can make it here, to
the center of this realm.” He looks out at the various memories
in the void, flitting through an infinite variety of strange
creatures and phenomena. The Echo closes his hand, the
crumpled page disappearing as quickly as it appeared, and the
red strings throughout the mindscape twang and snap as he
lurches himself free and drops to the rock below. The snapped
strings all wind toward the Echo, wrapping onto the curious
spindle in one of his hands and attaching to the dull blade in
his other. “But once I do, my business here will be done, my
dream of the Archive over… and I’m not ready for the dream
to end.”
213
213
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
21551759
21551759
21551759
35 5
435754
435754
