paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
21551603
21551603
21551603
35598
435598
435598
Introduction
The
Archivist’s
Training
Manual
The Stolen
Casefiles
Cryptids
Aftermath
Feats
Cryptid
Adjustments
Cryptid Gear
Cryptid Class
Feats
The Beast of
Birchfrost
Secret
Societies
Deviant
Abilities
Mirrors and
Imposters
Cults
Curses and
Pacts
Temporal
Anomalies
Mindscapes
Spell &
Item Lists,
Glossary &
Index
Dark
Archive
effect, and an element of that stony gaze has remained with
you, both protecting and slowly consuming you. Your limbs
are coated with a layer of stone that rests atop your skin and
covers more of your body as you lose health. You gain a stone
fist unarmed attack that deals 1d8 bludgeoning damage, has
the shove trait, and is in the brawling weapon group (unlike a
normal fist, it doesn’t have the agile or finesse traits).
Additionally, you become more petrified as your life force
ebbs. When you have fewer than half your maximum Hit
Points, you increase the damage die size of your stone fist
from 1d8 to 1d10 and gain resistance to physical damage
(except adamantine) equal to your Constitution modifier.
If you would gain the dying condition, you can choose to
instead be permanently petrified and avoid the risk of death.
When you do, you enter your petrified form with your full
maximum Hit Points instead of the normal number. If you
become unpetrified, you return to 0 Hit Points, as normal.
You can’t voluntarily end this petrification. Counteracting this
petrification requires a casting of stone to flesh of a spell level
equal to at least half your level, and a successful counteract
check against the hard DC for your level. Other effects like
stone to flesh have similar limitations, as determined by the
GM. Each time you recover from this petrification, you gain
a new scar on your skin in the shape of a long, thin crack.
DORMANT ERUPTION
FEAT 14
RARE
AFTERMATH
FIRE
Prerequisites You’ve been brought to 0 Hit Points by an
enemy that has the fire trait or an enemy’s ability that has
the fire trait.
A sweltering heat and sparks of flame that take the form
of tiny copies of you surround your body. You’re hot to the
touch, gaining resistance 5 to cold and fire. Whenever an
adjacent creature Strikes you with a melee attack or touches
you, it takes 1d6 persistent fire damage. You gain the Thermal
Eruption action.
Thermal Eruption [two-actions] (evocation, fire, primal) Frequency once
per day; Effect You concentrate your thermal energy and
explode it outward. All creatures in a 20-foot emanation
take 14d6 fire damage with a basic Reflex save. Afterward,
you lose all effects of the Dormant Eruption feat until your
next daily preparations.
SINK AND SWIM
FEAT 14
RARE
AFTERMATH
WATER
Prerequisites You’ve been brought to 0 Hit Points by an
enemy that has the water trait or an enemy’s ability that
has the water trait.
Your body looks like it’s made of flowing water, clear and
pristine, providing a natural grace to all your movements. You
gain a swim Speed equal to your land Speed. If you already
had a swim Speed, it’s increased by 10 feet. You gain the Water
Transfer activity, which enables you to teleport through a
body of water.
Water Transfer [two-actions] (conjuration, primal, teleportation, water)
Frequency once per minute; Requirements You’re on land
and adjacent to a body of water; Effect You sink into the
water and emerge back onto land in another space within
120 feet that’s adjacent to the same body of water. You can
transport yourself, any items you’re wearing and holding,
and up to one other willing creature.
FEY LIFE
FEAT 16
RARE
AFTERMATH
HEALING NECROMANCY
PRIMAL
Prerequisites You helped to save a fey from a terrible fate, and
you’re not a fey.
There are some fates worse than death–and you worked to
save a fey from one such fate. In return, your life became
bound to theirs. Fey magic has since become a part of you,
bringing the vibrant colors of the First World to you and all
that surrounds you. Your skin, hair, all that you touch, and
anything within 5 feet of you changes to the most brilliant
hues possible, though the colors fade as you cease to touch an
object or you move away. You gain the ability to cast summon
fey as a 7th-level primal innate spell once per day. At 18th level
the spell heightens to 8th level, and at 20th level it heightens
to 9th level.
The first time you die after gaining this feat, the bond
you made with the fey invokes the power of the First World
to return you to life. Immediately after dying, you revive,
becoming conscious (and wounded as normal) at 27 Hit Points,
and you gain the fey trait. Your eyes become a rainbow of
colors, and you take on a visual aspect of the fey with whom
you are bound, such as by growing wings, horns, or a plantlike
body. The change has no mechanical effect; for instance, the
wings wouldn’t allow you to fly, nor would horns grant a horn
unarmed attack.
The second time you die, you reawaken in the First World
with the full appearance of the fey that was bound to you. You
become an NPC, unconcerned with your old mortal life. You
can be returned to your previous life in the Material Plane by
having allies spend 3 days building a shrine to the First World,
giving three offerings that hold deep sentimental value for you
or another, and holding a raucous, three-day long feast.
Any time that you die after that, you reawaken again in
the First World with no memories of your previous life, and
you can only be brought back by powerful magic such as a
wish spell.
WALK ON THE WIND
FEAT 16
RARE
AFTERMATH
AIR
MAGICAL
TRANSMUTATION
Prerequisites You’ve been brought to 0 Hit Points by an
enemy that has the air trait or an enemy’s ability that has
the air trait.
A flighty breeze follows you wherever you go, granting a
dramatic flair to everything you do. You’re light on your feet,
your voice gains an airy quality that allows it to travel further
than normal, and your clothing and hair rustle gently around
you at all times. You can Stride at half your land Speed across
calm air. If you attempt to carry another creature with you
while walking on air, even if it’s in an extradimensional space,
you fall.
57
57
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
21551603
21551603
21551603
35598
435598
435598
