paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
21551712
21551712
21551712
35 0
435707
435707
Pactbinder (Archetype)
Some people feel that the universe is a constant struggle.
Good against evil, law against chaos, civilization against
nature, life against death against undeath. But why fight
what you can’t change? You prefer to bargain.
As a pactbinder, you make deals with strange entities,
otherworldly beings, and all sorts of multiversal denizens,
amiable and unapproachable alike. Over the course of your
many negotiations, you’ve learned something important:
while such beings always seek a bargain tilted in their own
favor, sometimes your definition of value differs enough
from theirs that you can still come out ahead. In fact,
sometimes, those who don’t understand pacts like you do
might mistake the payment for the benefit, or vice versa.
Perhaps an ancient being of nightmare demanded to
consume something you sought to be rid of, like a painful
memory or a negative personality trait, priding itself on
how it was taking something personal from you. Little did
it know, you let it win on haggling your end of the deal.
Of course, this practice isn’t without its own risks, as who
knows what you might become without that part of you.
All these things, you can and must consider in every
pact. In addition to pacts, you might also pursue magical
contracts. While less of a metaphysical commitment than a
pact, contracts offer similar benefits you just can’t resist—
and you can employ your skill set as a pactbinder to
manipulate the precise wording of the bargain.
PACTBINDER DEDICATION
FEAT 2
UNCOMMON
ARCHETYPE
DEDICATION
Prerequisites trained in Diplomacy as well as either Arcana,
Nature, Occultism, or Religion
The first step toward forming a successful pact is an
understanding of the magic behind it, along with skill at
negotiation. It doesn’t hurt that you also learned how to
magically bind yourself to keep your word, enabling you to
bargain more easily. You increase your proficiency from trained
to expert in Diplomacy and in one of the following: Arcana,
Nature, Occultism, or Religion.
Binding Vow [one-action] (auditory, concentrate, enchantment, occult)
Frequency once per day; Effect You bind yourself by formally
speaking a binding vow. Supernatural power flows through
and around you as you speak it, and all those present to
hear it intrinsically know that it binds you. Breaking this
vow is anathema to you, and if you break it willingly, you
lose all pactbinder benefits until you fulfill your vow or, if
that’s impossible, participate in an atone ritual. The vow
doesn’t prevent unwilling violations and can’t be used to
try to circumvent mind-control magic, confusion, or similar
situations where you perform an action not entirely of your
own volition. A Binding Vow doesn’t end until you’ve fulfilled
it. Even if you die, the vow still binds you if you return to life.
The vow doesn’t force you to go to ridiculous extremes, such
as dying, to fulfill your vow unless you specifically swear to
go to such extremes. Trying to subvert your binding vow by
making selfish promises (such as swearing to an ally that
you’ll kill someone you already wanted to kill) is in itself a
violation of your vow, as is attempting to subvert other vows
you’ve made (such as those from other pactbinder feats or a
champion’s code).
When you make a Request or Coerce directly in service of
fulfilling your vow, you gain a +1 circumstance bonus to your
check against any creatures aware of your vow.
Special You can’t select another dedication feat until you’ve
gained two other feats from the pactbinder archetype.
SOCIABLE VOW
FEAT 4
ARCHETYPE
SKILL
Prerequisites Pactbinder Dedication, expert in Diplomacy
You can leverage your vow in more social interactions. The
circumstance bonus from your Binding Vow also applies
to attempts to Gather Information, Make an Impression, or
Demoralize you make directly in service of fulfilling the vow.
PACT OF FEY GLAMOUR
FEAT 4
UNCOMMON
ARCHETYPE
ILLUSION
PRIMAL
Prerequisites Pactbinder Dedication
You’ve sworn a pact with fey powers, granting you the
otherworldly appearance of your dreams in exchange for
oaths of hospitality. As long as you keep your end of the
bargain, your base appearance changes indefinitely to any one
appearance you wish that’s within the bounds of possibility
for your ancestry; this effect can’t be counteracted or removed
except by violating the pact. Additionally, you can cast illusory
disguise as a primal innate spell once per hour, using the
higher of your class DC and your spell DC to determine the DC.
In exchange, you promise to accept any fey’s request for
hospitality, granting them food, drink, and lodging for up
to 3 days and 3 nights. You also promise not to harm any
creature to whom you’ve offered hospitality or who has shown
hospitality to you, whether or not that creature is fey, unless
that creature does harm first. If you refuse hospitality to a fey
or violate hospitality, you lose the benefits of this feat until
you atone for your transgressions, instantly reverting your
appearance to the one you had before the pact.
PACT OF DRACONIC FURY
FEAT 6
UNCOMMON
ARCANE
ARCHETYPE
EVOCATION
Prerequisites Pactbinder Dedication
You’ve sworn a pact with a dragon, giving you the ability to
tap into the dragon’s immeasurable power in exchange for
adding to their hoard. You gain the Dragon Breath activity.
In exchange, you promise to search for objects the dragon
wants for its hoard upon request. These requests might be
extremely specific unique objects, or they might be a broad
category of objects. While the dragon agrees to pay you a fair
price for the item you retrieve, the pact requires you to give
your time and service.
Dragon Breath [two-actions] Frequency once per hour; Effect You breathe
deeply and exhale a line or cone of powerful breath, much
like the dragon with which you made the pact. If the dragon
had a cone-shaped breath weapon, your breath weapon is a
166
166
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
21551712
21551712
21551712
35 0
435707
435707
