paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
21551725
21551725
21551725
35
0
435720
435720
Introduction
The
Archivist’s
Training
Manual
The Stolen
Casefiles
Cryptids
Secret
Societies
Deviant
Abilities
Mirrors and
Imposters
Cults
Curses and
Pacts
Temporal
Anomalies
Temporal
Spells
Time Mage
Archetype
Chronoskimmer
Archetype
Time Oracle
Mystery
Tomorrow’s
Feast
Mindscapes
Spell &
Item Lists,
Glossary &
Index
Dark
Archive
MOMENTS IN AMBER
Time stops are, blissfully, rather straightforward to
understand compared to other temporal phenomena.
Any anomaly that deals with stopping time takes affected
areas out of play, so to speak—that is, briefly removed
entirely from reality. Stuck. Those in stopped time can’t
affect anything outside their own person and vice versa.
For instance, the Cryo Lake Incident, constituting a large
body of water in the Crown of the World. Though still
liquid, the lake remains eternally frozen in time with
remarkably clear water providing a near-unmarred view
straight down to the bottom, well over 100 feet down.
Possibly 200. The most chilling aspect is the presence
of creatures frozen within, unidentifiable and entirely
unique. While freezing may preserve the bodies of
deceased creatures, it’s undoubtedly clear those trapped
in the lake are alive, albeit unable to move. Attempts to
carve into the lake to test the ice proved impractical—
like Crystilan and most similar phenomena, moving
the object out of the time stream renders it impervious
to interference.
The so-called Gray Mannequin bears some similarities.
They have the appearance of an elven wizard, clad in
ceremonial robes, forever removed from the strings of
fate, perfectly preserved against the ravages of time. Were
we to hazard a guess as to their condition, it would likely
be an incident involving a powerful magical spell gone
awry. Anything so powerful can malfunction. Perhaps
a use of time-stopping magic, interacting strangely
with an unrelated fluctuation in magical energy. Or an
experiment. It is unknown whether they can perceive or
process information or dream.
The Gray Mannequin has gone through some... let’s
say, turbulent processing. Questions about whether
to attempt to resuscitate the individual were stymied
by their unknown origins and hazards present in the
resuscitation process. Though the Archive’s duty was to
retrieve and store them (having first been noticed as a
museum exhibit), even errant members of the Society
who caught wind of the case seemed hesitant about
unleashing a potentially powerful spellcaster with
unknown motives into the world. We were given the go-
ahead to study the individual while the Society quibbled
about what to do.
DOORS IN TIME
We’ve documented plenty of reports from around the
world about “time doors,” entrances to another time,
whether it be two days ago, an eon ago, or, rarely, even
the future, as with the Luminous Archway. Most turn
out to be hoaxes of some kind, or at least impossible
to verify one way or another—anyone who enters the
door vanishes and never returns, leaving it impossible
to determine whether they reappeared in another
timeline, were annihilated by temporal guardians,
or simply went somewhere else. I still remember the
unearthly nature of those lacerations. It’s our working
assumption that functioning time doors have to do
with the folding of reality, like a hot needle piercing
layered cloth, as I understand it. Strikingly similar to
the various dimensional entryways to other planes, but
on the temporal axis, rather than locational. How does
this affect our present? Is it predetermined, or do we
simply experience the resulting outcomes? It’s difficult
to justify when we have no methods of retrieval; we lost
Archivist Galan to what we believed to be a time door in
Caliphas. He wandered right in. No traces.
Objects such as the Orichalcum Sparrow suggest
travel through such doors may cause some permanent
alteration to the existential makeup of the subject. Due
to the nature of its construction, it’s unclear whether it
represents pre‑Earthfall construction or is rather from
a point in our future. While the nature of time doors is
of great interest to us, it’s impossible to proceed with
gainful research until we’ve devised more robust testing
parameters, though this limitation doesn’t stop some of
the more enthusiastic archivists from throwing stones
through the doors when they think no one’s looking.
FUTURE FLASHBACKS / MENTAL TRAVEL
Many who experience temporal anomalies come away
with lasting conditions, likely due to our minds coping
with the lingering paradox of experiencing multiple
divergent realities, but just as possibly some portion of
our soul’s essence becoming changed, much in the way
that interacting with powerful magic can alter our very
beings. Quite intriguing. The most common manifestation
of this phenomenon are future flashbacks, vivid memories
of events not yet experienced. These mental flashbacks
can take many forms, and, ironically, many are actually
visions of potential future events.
Archivist Vyi, who became an archivist after being
at the center of the Double Trouble Incident, is our
exemplary case study. Frustratingly, the inconsistency
of these visions makes rigorous examination difficult.
Sometimes they’re of past events that she nevertheless
didn’t experience, while others are predictions for the
future. The real trouble’s that mental flashbacks that
depict possible future events rarely abide by the same
rules, a pattern for these sorts of anomalies. Attempts
to change the future depicted in these visions vary, with
some outcomes being avoided, and, in some, our very
meddling caused them to come to fruition. However,
it’s useful to note that should nothing be done, these
flashbacks often occur as envisioned, and evidence from
before 4606 suggests that all such cases before the Age
of Lost Omens—if the visions weren’t a hoax in the first
place—always came to pass without outside action.
LOOPS AND REPETITION
Archivist Laufent and I were sent to investigate a
case she charmingly named “Tomorrow is Fireday.”
179
179
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
21551725
21551725
21551725
35
0
435720
435720
