paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
21551718
21551718
21551718
35
3
435713
435713
Exploring Krasnoprudny
Having been duly welcomed into the strangeness afflicting
Krasnoprudny, the PCs can now explore the town and
encounter the various strange curses afflicting the local
population. When Ded Bolota and Ded Bereza cast their
magic over the town, they made it so that wishes came
true—except the two fey weren’t terribly precise in their
spell (faerie alcohol may have been involved), and so
it responds to oaths, exclamations, idioms, and casual
daydreams as much as to actual requests.
THE GREAT PORRIDGE FLOOD OF KRASNOPRUDNY
As the PCs are passing by the first cottage, they hear
a sudden shriek from inside. A moment later, the door
bursts open, and a veritable flood of buckwheat porridge
comes pouring out onto the street, carrying along with it
furniture, pots, pans, one loudly yowling cat, and a very
unhappy old woman.
The woman is Baba Donya (CG female Kellid human
grandmother), who was in the process of cooking a
supper for her son’s family, who are presently out tending
to the crops. She made an off-hand comment to her cat
Frosya that she wished she could make enough porridge
for everyone, whereupon the fey spell took effect and
Baba Donya’s prized wooden spoon set to work, with the
effects that the PCs can see before them.
Each PC must attempt a DC 26 Reflex save immediately
upon the outpouring of porridge, with failure resulting in
the PC being knocked prone and taking a –2 circumstance
penalty to their next Athletics check to Swim in the
porridge. Afterward, assuming the PCs choose to help,
they have three tasks at hand.
• 	 Rescuing Baba Donya: The PCs can save Baba Donya
with two successful Athletics checks to Swim to get
her to safety, the first one with a DC of 24 to reach
Baba Donya, then a second at DC 26 to get back out
of the porridge.
• 	 Rescuing Frosya the Cat: Baba Donya will be in
a panic until her beloved pet is rescued. Doing so
requires a PC to succeed at a single DC 24 Athletics
check to Swim, but also requires succeeding at either
a DC 18 Athletics check to Grapple the cat safely or
a DC 23 Nature check to persuade Frosya to come
with the PC. On a failure, the cat deals 1d6 slashing
damage worth of scratches to the PC, but they
can try again. On a success, the panicked cat also
scratches them for 1d6 slashing damage, but they
manage to save her. On a critical success, Frosya is
either so restrained or placated that she comes along
without dealing any damage to the PC.
• 	 Stopping the Spoon: The spoon has only 1 HP, but it
also has an AC of 29 and a Reflex modifier of +19
due to its small size and rapid movement. If it rolls
a success on a Reflex save, it gets a critical success
instead. The spoon is easy enough to spot, given that
it’s dancing madly across the surface of the flood,
more porridge appearing with every twist and twitch.
Inventive PCs may well think of other solutions to
the above problems, such as telekinesis or flying magic.
Use the above DCs as guidelines to give an idea of
how difficult they should be. If the PCs fail to disable
the spoon, or ignore the situation, then the magic gives
out before anyone is seriously harmed, but the map for
Encounter A is entirely made up of difficult terrain owing
to being knee-deep in rapidly cooling porridge.
Once the PCs rescue both Baba Donya and Frosya and
resolve the spoon situation, they will likely want to talk
to her, as she’s the first local they meet. Use or paraphrase
the following questions and answers as guidance.
Who are you? “Anadona Mahrosovna, but everyone
calls me Baba Donya. And this is Frosya,” the old woman
says. The cat regards the PCs with typical feline disdain
and attempts to clean the porridge off its fur.
What happened?! “Ach, my own fault, I forgot myself,”
Baba Donya says, trying to get porridge out of her shawl.
“Wished I could feed everyone, my spoon heard me, and
well there you go. Crying shame too, I liked that spoon.”
Does this happen often? / What’s going on? “Started
a month or so ago, when Pashka turned himself into a
WHAT SORT OF FAIRY TALE?
The default atmosphere of this adventure tends a
bit lighthearted, with the cursed wishes creating
inept imps, a localized flood of porridge, and
murderous matryoshkas. However, depending on
the tone you want to set, considering playing up
the darker side of fairy wishes gone wrong. The
porridge flood and other similar wishes might have
destroyed homes, leaving the buildings in town
damaged or destroyed and the townsfolk in fear
of the next calamity. You can play up the strange,
unsettling, and wrong feeling about the town and its
people, who might have lost a bit of their humanity
as the wishes twisted their souls in ways mortal
spirits weren’t meant to shift. Alternatively, the
PCs could encounter a macabre scene, such as the
classic monkey’s paw scenario of a wish for a dead
loved one to return causing them to come back as
a murderous corpse and kill the rest of their family.
Ultimately, the fey creating this effect meant
well and didn’t intend to ruin people’s lives, but the
way they understand the world, they might still not
have been able to tell the difference even as things
grew terribly dark. After all, the mortals were the
ones who kept making these wishes, perhaps they
simply desired excitement and danger? The choice
of how to depict the cursed town is up to you; make
a decision that feels right for your group and be sure
to discuss content and boundaries if you make the
results of the curses into something truly macabre.
172
172
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
21551718
21551718
21551718
35
3
435713
435713
