paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
21551739
21551739
21551739
35 3
435734
435734
Introduction
The
Archivist’s
Training
Manual
The Stolen
Casefiles
Cryptids
Secret
Societies
Deviant
Abilities
Mirrors and
Imposters
Cults
Curses and
Pacts
Temporal
Anomalies
Temporal
Spells
Time Mage
Archetype
Chronoskimmer
Archetype
Time Oracle
Mystery
Tomorrow’s
Feast
Mindscapes
Spell &
Item Lists,
Glossary &
Index
Dark
Archive
Defeating the Morrowkin: PCs who have the Knife of
Trouble Elimination (see Finding the Knife, page 195), have
awakened the knife’s magic (see Awakening the Knife, page
194), and learned how to wield it (see Learning the Knife,
page 194) have access to the Untether from Time action,
the only thing that can defeat the morrowkin for good.
The PCs know when they meet the requirements through
an intrinsic sense from the knife. When three tethers have
been severed, the morrowkin is unmade and pulled out of
the time stream—see Defeating the Morrowkin (page 195).
Untether from Time [one-action] (attack, fortune, magical) Requirements
You are wielding the Knife of Trouble Elimination, the Knife
of Trouble Elimination has been temporally empowered,
and the morrowkin has 160 or fewer Hit Points; Effect You
focus your eyes to see the tethers of time located around the
morrowkin, then slash in a strange, twisting pattern with the
Knife of Trouble Elimination to sever the creature’s connection
to time. Make a melee attack roll against AC 28. On a success,
you sever a tether of time (two tethers on a critical success).
Death in the Anomaly: The PCs will very likely be killed
by the morrowkin on their first (or a later) encounter with
it. Virtually the only chance of avoiding this is if the PCs
can repeatedly defeat the creature dozens of times in a row
during Loop 0 to make enough time to learn how to use the
knife and keep Rui Longlai alive long enough to allow them
to investigate belowdecks. This shouldn’t happen unless the
PCs are much more powerful than expected for their level.
Once all the PCs have died in a loop, they’re brought back to
area A1 (page 191), having just stepped aboard the Golden
Fortune at the beginning of the loop. Once the PCs have
realized that their defeat against the morrowkin is imminent
(or that they’ve accomplished all they can in the current
loop), feel free to summarize the remainder of the loop so
players can get straight to resuming their investigation in the
next loop. Loop 3 is the PCs’ last chance; if they die a fourth
time, the morrowkin devours their future destinies, leaving
them little more than hollow shells of their former selves.
When the players return to the start of the loop, they’re
returned to full HP, but any expended resources the PCs
brought with them (such as spell slots or consumables)
remain expended. Any items that the players gained from
within the anomaly, such as any talismans or even the knife,
return to their normal places at the start of the loop.
A PC who succeeds at a DC 25 Occultism check realizes
that something about the Golden Fortune’s temporal
anomaly will allow them to return back to when they
boarded the vessel, though only three times. Regardless
of the check results, PCs gain a +1 circumstance bonus to
Perception and skill checks to investigate for clues starting
in Loop 2, and a +2 circumstance bonus in Loop 3, as the
knife assists them.
A2. RUI LONGLAI’S OFFICE
This makeshift office contrasts the splendorous facade of the
rest of the boat: simple and functional. Crates of research
materials are strewn about and book stacks line the shelves.
Rui’s office is full of paperwork and research. It is clear
during a search that he splits his time evenly between
running his restaurant and studying ritual magic. The office
is disheveled, arranged in a way that only Rui can make
sense of. PCs who succeed at a DC 27 Perception check or
a DC 22 Society check find one of the relevant books in
20 minutes (10 minutes on a critical success); on a failure,
they waste the 20 minutes. If multiple PCs search together
and each succeed, they each find a different relevant book.
Once the characters have found a book, they automatically
find it again in a subsequent loop without spending
precious minutes searching. Once the PCs find all three
books, they can tell they’ve searched through everything in
the office and found all the volumes of interest.
The three relevant books in the office are Rui’s journal,
Unleashing Potential (author unknown), and Solving Your
Problems by Cantu Ji. Each book has three clues, and it
takes 20 minutes of reading to find each clue, in the order
presented, so reading a book for an hour gets the PC
all of its clues. A PC can halve the time to learn a given
clue to 10 minutes with a successful DC 29 Perception
check (Rui Longlai’s journal), DC 29 Occultism check
(Unleashing Potential), or DC 29 Arcana check (Solving
Your Problems); on a critical failure, it takes 40 minutes
to learn the clue, and on a critical success, it only takes 5
minutes. Only one PC can study a given book at a time.
Rui Longlai’s Journal
Clue 1: Rui details that this is his third relaunch of the
Golden Fortune. He’s spent most of the family fortune
chasing his dream of running a successful restaurant. Each
launch, Rui gave an overhaul of the decor, the menu, and the
staff. After some initial hype, business quickly dwindled and
he felt compelled to reinvent the restaurant.
Clue 2: Rui discusses feeling that he needs more than
good food and grand decor for a successful restaurant. He
wants influential people to visit and spread the word, of
which Rui has had very little success in his past tries. He has
spent much time collecting and studying rituals, looking
for those that can subtly attract wealthy customers.
Clue 3: The two rituals that Rui decides are most fruitful
are “Tomorrow’s Feast” and “Problem Cutting.”
The relevant entry for Tomorrow’s Feast follows.
You make a lot of food for a guest and then he arrives and fixes
your future! How simple! I’ll get help from Jiudu and have the
feast ready in the private room tomorrow.
The relevant entry for the Problem Cutting entry follows.
I’m not sure about this one... I don’t need to spend all this time
doing the same things over and over, do I? I’ve made the knife
but I’ll use it if the Feast doesn’t work, I guess.
193
193
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
21551739
21551739
21551739
35 3
435734
435734
