paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
21551731
21551731
21551731
35
6
435726
435726
Introduction
The
Archivist’s
Training
Manual
The Stolen
Casefiles
Cryptids
Secret
Societies
Deviant
Abilities
Mirrors and
Imposters
Cults
Curses and
Pacts
Temporal
Anomalies
Temporal
Spells
Time Mage
Archetype
Chronoskimmer
Archetype
Time Oracle
Mystery
Tomorrow’s
Feast
Mindscapes
Spell &
Item Lists,
Glossary &
Index
Dark
Archive
whenever a creature that you can observe gains the benefits
of time stop or similar effects, you can observe what happens
during the stopped time, though you still can’t act yourself
for the duration.
CHRONOMANCER’S SECRETS
FEAT 8
ARCHETYPE
Prerequisites Time Mage Dedication
The secrets of time peel back, revealing deeper truths. You
gain either the stasis domain spell (Gods & Magic 118) or
the path of least resistance focus spell (below). Increase the
number of Focus Points in your pool by 1.
Special You can take this feat a second time, gaining the
focus spell that you didn’t gain the first time. Increase the
number of Focus Points in your pool by 1.
FUTURE SPELL LEARNING
FEAT 8
ARCHETYPE
Prerequisites Time Mage Dedication
More future memories of time magic percolate back to the
present, teaching you spells you’ve yet to learn. Add behold
the weave (page 181), cast into time (Secrets of Magic 94),
haste, loose time’s arrow (page 182), quicken time (page 182),
slow, and stagnate time (page 182) to your spell list. You
can thus potentially learn these spells even if they aren’t
normally on your tradition’s spell list.
WHAT COULD HAVE BEEN [free-action]
FEAT 8
ARCHETYPE
CONCENTRATE
METAMAGIC
Prerequisites Time Mage Dedication
Rather than conjuring creatures from elsewhere in the
world or the planes, you can temporarily pull a much
different version of yourself from an alternate timeline—for
instance, instead of summoning a generic or random troll
with summon giant, you summon a troll version of yourself
from a timeline where you’re a troll. If your next action is
to Cast a Spell that summons a creature, that creature is
another version of you. This creature remains the type of
creature you summoned and has largely the same abilities
(plus the following adjustments), but it clearly resembles
you, likely sharing some distinguishing features, such as
mannerisms, speech patterns, tattoos, or clothing. The
summoned creature gains a +1 status bonus to any skill
check in which you’re trained, a +2 status bonus if you’re an
expert, a +3 status bonus if you’re a master, or a +4 status
bonus if you’re legendary. The creature also takes a –2
penalty to all skills in which you’re untrained.
INTO THE FUTURE [one-action]
FEAT 10
ARCHETYPE
CONCENTRATE
METAMAGIC
Prerequisites Time Mage Dedication
You know your spell will be needed not now but in a few
moments, so you cast your magic into the future. If your
next action is to Cast a Spell that takes 1 or 2 actions to
cast, the spell’s effects occur 1 round later, at the beginning
of your next turn, rather than immediately. Targets and
choices about the spell must be determined when the spell
is cast, and requirements, such as line of sight and line of
effect, must be valid both when the spell is cast and when
its effects occur. Consequences for the action of Casting
the Spell itself, such as an Attack of Opportunity reaction
or ending a foe’s fascinated condition by taking a hostile
action, aren’t delayed.
PURGE OF MOMENTS [three-actions]
FEAT 16
ARCHETYPE
CONCENTRATE
TRANSMUTATION
Prerequisites Time Mage Dedication
Frequency once per hour
All things eventually end, a truth that you can put into
practice by accelerating your passage through time to shake
off harmful effects. Five rounds of apparent time occur for
you. No one, including you, can act during this time, but
effects on you run their course, including beneficial effects,
negative effects, afflictions, conditions, and persistent
damage. Roll saving throws, flat checks, damage, and any
other rolls for those effects normally as if the time had
passed. Excessive use of this technique is responsible for
more than a few premature gray hairs among time mages.
TIMELINE-SPLITTING SPELL [three-actions]
FEAT 18
ARCHETYPE
CONCENTRATE
DIVINATION
MANIPULATE METAMAGIC
Prerequisites Time Mage Dedication
Frequency once per day
You invest in two futures, then choose the one to make a
reality. You Cast two Spells that each take 1 or 2 actions
to cast. These can’t be the same spell heightened to two
different levels. You expend the resources for both spells,
such as spell slots, Focus Points, and material components.
Determine the immediate results for both spells, including
attack rolls, saving throws, damage, and any other dice rolls.
Then, choose which of the two spells takes effect, using the
previously made rolls. The other spell’s resources are still
expended, but the spell has no effect as the magic disappears
the other timeline.
TIME MAGE FOCUS SPELL
PATH OF LEAST RESISTANCE
FOCUS 4
UNCOMMON
DIVINATION
Cast [one-action] verbal
You trace several possible routes, quickly resetting the
timeline until you find the safest one. Choose three spaces
you could reach with two Stride actions. Each must be at
least 20 feet from the other two. You Stride twice to one
of the spaces, determined randomly by the GM from among
the paths you chose. If some of the paths contain a hidden
danger, such as a trap that you would trigger by walking
into the trap’s affected area, the GM doesn’t consider this
path when randomly determining which one you take,
but if all options have a hidden danger, the GM randomly
chooses between all three paths. This movement doesn’t
trigger reactions.
185
185
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
21551731
21551731
21551731
35
6
435726
435726
