paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
21551747
21551747
21551747
35
435742
435742
Introduction
The
Archivist’s
Training
Manual
The Stolen
Casefiles
Cryptids
Secret
Societies
Deviant
Abilities
Mirrors and
Imposters
Cults
Curses and
Pacts
Temporal
Anomalies
Mindscapes
Mindscape
Statistics
Psychic
Duels
Psychic
Duelist
Archetype
Mind Smith
Archetype
Sleepwalker
Archetype
The Last
Dream
Spell &
Item Lists,
Glossary &
Index
Dark
Archive
Initiative and Dueling
Actions
Each duelist rolls initiative normally and proceeds in
that initiative order, like a spellcasting duel rather than a
combat duel. Each duelist can roll a Deception, Diplomacy,
Intimidation, or Occultism check instead of Perception. If
the participant is trained at the skill they rolled for initiative,
they gain the psychic center of that skill—a mental state
corresponding to the skill. The GM might allow Lore skills
for initiative in a psychic duel; these give the Occultism
psychic center unless the GM determines otherwise.
All participants gain the Psychic Defense reaction, which
they can use while psychically centered. Its specific effect
depends on the user’s psychic center and using it expends
the state. Each participant also has the Recenter action,
which lets them change or assume a psychic center.
PSYCHIC DEFENSE [reaction]
CONCENTRATE
MAGICAL
Trigger Your opponent uses a psychic manifestation against you.
Requirements You’re in a psychic duel and are psychically
centered.
You gain the benefit matching your psychic center against the
triggering manifestation. Then your psychic center is expended.
Armor of Insight (Perception) Sensing the incoming attack, you
make your mind resist psychic harm. You gain resistance
equal to half your level (minimum 1) to mental damage
against the triggering effect. This resistance is doubled if
you’re a master in Perception and tripled if you’re legendary.
Empathic Orbit (Diplomacy) Displaying empathy, you sow
doubt in your attacker to diminish their resolve for psychic
combat. The opponent is stupefied 1 until the end of their
next turn or stupefied 2 if you’re legendary in Diplomacy.
Ire’s Spear (Intimidation) Blazing anger surges in your
mind, causing backlash to anyone who harms you. If the
manifestation damages you, the opponent takes damage
equal to the counteract level of the manifestation it used
against you. This damage is doubled if you’re a master of
Intimidation or tripled if you’re legendary.
Rational Labyrinth (Occultism) Analytically breaking down
the attack, you realign your mind’s defenses into a puzzle
designed to confound it. You gain a +2 status bonus to your
Will save or Will DC, or a +4 status bonus if the effect has the
emotion trait.
Sensory Phantasm (Deception) Using your guile, you send
psychic illusions through your mental link to your foe,
making yourself harder to pinpoint. You’re concealed against
the opponent until the end of its next turn.
RECENTER [one-action]
CONCENTRATE
Requirements You’re in a psychic duel and are trained in the
skill matching the psychic center you are changing to.
You adopt the psychic center matching the emotion of your
choice. If you were already psychically centered, you lose your
old psychic center when you adopt the new one.
IMAGERY OF A PSYCHIC DUEL
Upon entering the psychic duel, a creature’s psychic
avatar appears in the minds of the duelists. This
mental manifestation looks vaguely like them but
might be altered based on their mental abilities and
the statistics they used for initiative. For instance,
a creature that rolled Deception might appear
cloaked, shadowy, or diabolic. Over the course of
the battle, this avatar changes appearance multiple
times, adapting to the flow of the duel. A vicious,
powerful attack might cause the attacker to look
more fearsome or increase the splendor of their
imaginary attire; a failure might make them shrink
or become translucent. Armor might change form to
defend against varied manifestations.
Psychic manifestations, too, flex to meet the
psychic battlefield. Players should describe the
actions they use in imaginative ways unbound by
the laws of the physical world. Weapons can grow,
shrink, twist, and fly. Spells can become a riot of
color and noise, directing sensation straight into the
target’s mind. Participants transform into animals
or warriors that reflect their ferocity or cunning.
Enchantment and illusion spells are particularly
mutable since they’re more directly tied to the mind
and senses. Since the participants are mentally
linked, their thoughts can bleed over, making an
illusion pull imagery directly from the target’s mind
to show them a vision of a loved one or a bit of their
past.
The varied forms of Psychic Defense illustrate
this easily. Just a few examples appear here, but
anything that makes sense to a participant’s
imagination might appear.
Armor of Insight: Suck an attack into a fractal
vortex of color, speed acres of distance away from
your foe, transform into an unbreakable mountain,
deflect an attack by creating a prism of light that
breaks the attack into a rainbow of colors.
Empathic Orbit: Transform into the pleading
visage of someone the foe inadvertently harmed,
remove your face to reveal a crying version of your
foe’s own face, broadcast one of your memories that
can elicit sympathy.
Ire’s Spear: Roil a crashing storm, mirror the
manifestation upon your attacker, emit a red-faced
roar that shatters eardrums, froth rabidly to form a
river of blazing spittle.
Rational Labyrinth: Call up a foe’s memory
of being lost, block access to your mind with
mathematical equations, levy a requirement for
legalistic precision upon your foe’s thoughts.
Sensory Phantasm: Duplicate your form infinitely,
transform into a grotesque corpse to avert your
foe’s gaze, cast a falcon’s hood over your foe’s head,
emit distracting strobes of light.
201
201
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
21551747
21551747
21551747
35
435742
435742
