paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
21551675
21551675
21551675
356 0
435670
435670
Introduction
The
Archivist’s
Training
Manual
The Stolen
Casefiles
Cryptids
Secret
Societies
Deviant
Abilities
Mirrors and
Imposters
Reflection
Versatile
Heritage
Hazards of
Perception
Alter Ego
Archetype
Lady of the
Harvest
Cults
Curses and
Pacts
Temporal
Anomalies
Mindscapes
Spell &
Item Lists,
Glossary &
Index
Dark
Archive
Getting Started
The somnambulist bridge deposits the PCs in Ravengro,
where they can make their way to Lorres Manor. The city
council’s notes outlined the house’s history in their request
as well as the information that both the house and the
500-year-old painting inside are said to be cursed. While
the PCs can check with the council if they so choose, it has
no further information to share with the PCs about the
manor and its current state. No one has dared investigate
the house after its abandonment a century ago, other than
a few young people who haven’t been seen since.
FIRST FLOOR
Ceilings on the first floor are 10 feet high, and most floors
are made of once-stunning white marble that has since
become dull and covered in dust. Cobwebs fill the house,
and a pervasive smell of dust fills the entire building, which
will likely irritate the PCs’ senses but has no mechanical
impact. The blood painter Ogkrix (page 128), who has
been scoping out the house as he plans his theft of Lady of
the Harvest, left several smudges of blood behind while he
passed through the old house. These smudges are marked
with a Clues heading in the relevant areas.
A1. TERRACE
As the PCs approach the manor, read the following text.
The old manor looms above an overgrown, derelict garden.
Now very little remains but blackberry brambles and a
partially collapsed gazebo. Grand marble columns frame the
manor’s terrace entrance, the Taldan architecture out of place
with the traditional Ustalavic architecture outside the manor’s
grounds. Tall windows framed by smaller, decorative columns
outline most of the house, though a cursory look at the house’s
rear reveals the back half of the second floor is windowless.
Jutting out from the second floor at the house’s front, however,
appears to be the wall-to-wall windows of a solarium, facing
the west. Grime and decay cover nearly every visible surface
of the house, though it looks structurally sound—at least from
the outside.
A2. VESTIBULE
A gaunt woman with a sharply receding hairline greets the
PCs at the door and welcomes them inside. She introduces
herself as Liro Traventhal with a small bow of her head.
“Thank you for coming,” Liro says, holding out her arm to collect
coats and bags. “Lorres Manor contains a great many historic
works of art. Though some restoration will be necessary, the
hall of mirrors should be spectacular, and the solarium on the
second floor was apparently lovely. Though, who knows how
it’s been transformed by time. Regardless, if you have any
questions, please don’t hesitate to ask.”
If the PCs have questions for Liro about the curse, she
has a limited amount of information she has learned as
a local. She knows that numerous accidents befell the
construction crew, as their descendants still live in the
town. Additionally, she claims three children went missing
after breaking into the house on a dare (found in area B4).
As far as she knows, no one has entered the building since
then, until now. She wears a charm under her shirt, which
was given to her by the local healer to protect her from
the curse.
Clue: A PC who succeeds at a DC 23 Perception check
notices a streak of blood on the doorframe leading into the
foyer (area A3).
A3. FOYER
A grand but badly deteriorated staircase occupies the center
of this foyer, leading to the second floor (as described in
area B1). In the north and south corners, alcoves lead to
servant-access staircases. The doors to the staircases are
locked (DC 25 Thievery to Pick a Lock, requiring four
successes, or DC 30 Athletics to Force Open). The key to
the staircases can be found in area B5.
As the PCs move through the front door, read the
following aloud.
At the center of this spacious foyer is a grand staircase lined
with beautifully carved banisters, all covered in a thick layer
of dust. To the north of the stairs hangs a painting draped with
a drop cloth, completely obscuring what lies underneath.
“Here it is,” Liro says as she walks toward the shrouded
painting. “Lady of the Harvest was painted by Elsen Moonkeep
around the year 4209 ar. It traded hands many times before it
ended up in Count Lorres’s collection. He acquired it specifically
to be the centerpiece of his new home.”
Liro removes the drop cloth, revealing a painting of a lush
wheat field. A dour-looking woman stands just off-center on
the canvas, wearing a heavily starched veil and staring straight
out at the viewer. Then, right as Liro begins to speak again, the
air seems to hum before the painting erupts in a blinding light.
After a few moments, the light fades, and both Liro and the
painting are nowhere to be found.
ABOUT THIS ADVENTURE
Recommended Level: Team of four 7th-level
characters.
Lady of the Harvest takes place in Ravengro, a
small town in the horror-wracked nation of Ustalav.
This adventure sees the PCs entering the House of
Mirrors to assess a supposedly haunted painting,
Lady of the Harvest. The painting soon reveals
its nature by affecting the PCs with a number of
changes that affect how players roleplay at the
table, as well as secretly replacing one PC with
an evil duplicate for that player to roleplay. The
PCs will have to navigate the haunted house and
changed dynamics to recover the painting and
expose the duplicate.
129
129
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
21551675
21551675
21551675
356 0
435670
435670
