paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
21551635
21551635
21551635
35630
435630
435630
Introduction
The
Archivist’s
Training
Manual
The Stolen
Casefiles
Cryptids
Secret
Societies
Occult Skill
Feats
Secret
Society
Member
Secret
Society Gear
Secret
Society
Membership
Services
Shaking
the Helping
Hand
Deviant
Abilities
Mirrors and
Imposters
Cults
Curses and
Pacts
Temporal
Anomalies
Mindscapes
Spell &
Item Lists,
Glossary &
Index
Dark
Archive
INVESTIGATION
The PCs can use a variety of strategies to investigate the
opera house, including the following. Each PC has time to
follow two leads before the show begins; if the PCs pick a
different tactic, use these as a guide. Since time is limited,
the PCs likely want to split up to cover more ground.
Speaking with Staff
As opera guests, it’s easy for the PCs to catch the attention
of staff. In general, staff are polite but brief; with so many
guests, they can’t afford to get caught in discussions. If the
PCs ask staff members about the gloves, they don’t have
more information; it’s common for people to wear gloves
to the opera, and they see far too many guests. A PC who
succeeds at a DC 22 Perception check to Sense Motive
notices one of the staff members, Henrietta (N female
human custodian), is hiding her familiarity with the gloves.
As the PCs are talking, they hear a commotion. A
harried staff member named Savi (N nonbinary human
waiter) trips and falls, dropping a tray full of drinks, which
splash on the face, suit, and long, plaited beard of Alaric
Brunstone (NE male dwarf weapons dealer), a bald man
wearing a suit of pinstriped blue corduroy and white cotton
gloves. Alaric looms over the fallen Savi and screams at
him for soiling his beard and outfit. A PC who succeeds at
a DC 20 Society check or DC 18 Absalom Lore check to
Recall Knowledge knows Alaric is a weapons dealer who
owns a chain of stores in the Coins district.
The other guests don’t intervene, but the PCs can put a
stop to this. They might calm, trick, or frighten Alaric into
standing down (DC 18 Diplomacy, DC 20 Deception, or
DC 24 Intimidation). Alternatively, if the PCs call his name
or otherwise prove that they recognize him, Alaric turns
on a dime to business and apologizes to the PCs (but not
Savi) for his unseemly display. Before the show, Henrietta
approaches the PCs and asks them to swing by the bar to
speak with the bartender Kevel during the first act.
Speaking with Mechna
Mechna Vellerine is a proxy for the Ivy District’s low
councilwoman, Jostlin Ferqyr. She is embroiled in the
fictitious dispute Vir is mediating. Well-dressed folk hover
as she complains Erat Ozell is just like Brythen Blood,
the councilman for whom he is a proxy. He has his “head
in the clouds” and spends too much time on “academic
frippery” and not enough time attending to “what actually
needs to be done to run the city.” A PC who succeeds at a
DC 18 Society or DC 16 Absalom Lore check to Recall
Knowledge knows Brythen is the High Curator of the
College of Mysteries, an elite magical academy, who
prioritizes the academy and finds politicking dull. While
the complaints are plausible, a PC who succeeds at a DC
20 Perception check to Sense Motive realizes that she is
playing up her annoyance for the crowd. A pair of servants
attend to Mechna as she complains. One fans her while the
other brings her a drink from the bar.
Eavesdropping on Erat and Vir
Vir Zhees is speaking with the other party in the
fabricated dispute, Erat Ozell. Erat wears a sharp suit
and has the look of a librarian. He’s a proxy for Brythen
Blood, the Petal District councilman and High Curator
of the College of Mysteries. Erat loudly complains about
Mechna Vellerine and the councilwoman for whom she is
a proxy, Jostlin Ferqyr. He claims Mechna’s insistence on
doing things by the book stifles innovation and is a parody
of the admirable traits of Abadar that Councilwoman
Ferqyr exemplifies. A PC who succeeds at a DC 18
Religion check or DC 16 Absalom Lore check to Recall
Knowledge knows Councilwoman Ferqyr is the Keeper
of the Vault of Abadar, Absalom’s largest bank and center
of the faith. As a follower of Abadar, Councilwoman
Ferqyr advocates for structure and protocol. While
Ozell’s complaints are plausible, a PC who succeeds at
a DC 20 Perception check to Sense Motive realizes he is
projecting his voice more than normal and exaggerating
his complaints.
After a short conversation, Erat, Vir, and a pair of
servants slip into a side room. Any PCs who wish to follow
unnoticed can attempt a DC 18 Stealth check. If no PC is
caught, the PCs catch a snippet of the conversation between
Erat and Vir. Erat assures Vir her people are “ready for the
deal,” says that “Vellerine’s are too,” and says he’s “looking
forward to continuing this conversation later.”
Searching for Gloves
Gloves are standard in opera attire, so there is no shortage
of them. Finding gloves that bear the insignia is more
difficult, but PCs who succeed at a DC 20 Perception check
spot the symbol on the white cotton glove worn by the
busy bartender Kevel (N male human bartender). Kevel is
swamped by orders and tries to brush off any conversation.
If the PCs ask about the glove and succeed at a DC 20
Deception or DC 18 Diplomacy check, he sighs and asks
them to come back to speak with him during the first act.
Searching for Bahvan
Bahvan stepped away from Vir to confer with fellow
Helping Hand members, blending into the crowd. Finding
Bahvan requires a successful DC 22 Perception check.
PCs who succeed notice him conversing with servants,
many of whom seem to recognize him. If a PC finds him,
they can attempt to tail him with a DC 24 Stealth check.
On a failure, Bahvan notices the PC and doesn’t engage
in suspicious behavior. On a success, Bahvan approaches
a socialite wearing a stylish eye mask and a pair of long
black gloves. She greets Bahvan with a kiss on the cheek
and smilingly whispers something in his ear while rubbing
her right wrist. A PC who succeeds at a DC 22 Perception
check hears her message, “That hurt like hell. I’ll play nice
until we take her down, but don’t think we’re done here.”
Should the PCs confront them, they ask the PCs to speak
with them out in the lobby during the first act.
89
89
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
21551635
21551635
21551635
35630
435630
435630
