paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
21551621
21551621
21551621
356 6
435616
435616
Introduction
The
Archivist’s
Training
Manual
The Stolen
Casefiles
Cryptids
Secret
Societies
Occult Skill
Feats
Secret
Society
Member
Secret
Society Gear
Secret
Society
Membership
Services
Shaking
the Helping
Hand
Deviant
Abilities
Mirrors and
Imposters
Cults
Curses and
Pacts
Temporal
Anomalies
Mindscapes
Spell &
Item Lists,
Glossary &
Index
Dark
Archive
Cells are the smallest and most secretive of
conspiracies. Each one consists of at least three people,
rarely more than a dozen, who are known to one
another. There’s a single cell leader, who is in contact
with a few other cell leaders, usually reporting to some
higher master or facilitator. The masters of the society
have no idea of the identity of most of their members, as
the cell leader doesn’t pass that information along. Nor
does the membership know of those above them. And
each cell leader knows about only their own cell.
The advantage of such an organization is it’s nigh
impossible to root out. If a key member is slain, then
contact is lost, and it becomes impossible to follow
the chain and wrap up the entire conspiracy. The
disadvantage, of course, is that it becomes a trivial
matter to misplace a cell, and a single death might
splinter a group entirely. Archivist Meila reports she
encountered two cells of a Brotherhood of Seven in
Varisia. One was dedicated to the summoning of a
certain daemon, the other equally committed to ensuring
its eternal imprisonment. Neither seemed entirely aware
their historic foes were but a rival tradition of their own
secret society, and which came first is impossible to say.
The pyramid is at the other end spectrum: a
traditional hierarchy of king and country with ranks,
titles, and chains of command. There’s a leader—one or
many—and then below them officers, and below them
lieutenants, and below them still the common members
of the society, milling about like so many ants. The
advantage of such a structure is clarity; everyone knows
where they stand and who the society’s leadership is. The
disadvantage is the centralized nature of the conspiracy
makes it vulnerable—there’s but a single ruling power,
often located in a single place, and if they’re slain, the
whole thing collapses.
Then there’s the chapter. It sits somewhat between
the two extremes, not as secretive or decentralized
as the cell, but not as vulnerable as the pyramid. The
conspiracy consists of separate chapters, each one
given primacy over a particular territory. The chapters
communicate and know one another on the level of
leadership but aren’t as siloed off as cells. There may be
some overarching authority, but it’s typically more a first
among equals, not absolute control of a pyramid.
Societies
keep
their
secrecy
in
diverse
ways.
Cell‑structured conspiracies are usually the most
absolute in remaining hidden. Their name and nature are
thoroughly unknown, and the cells go to considerable
lengths to keep it that way. Chapters and especially
pyramids, on the other hand, tend to be too big to hide.
Instead, they disguise themselves as some more innocent
organization, like a wasp pretending to be a bumblebee:
a social club, a hunting society, sometimes a religious sect.
In such cases, usually there’s an inner membership that’s
fully a part of the conspiracy and an outer membership
that’s ignorant of the society’s nature and believes it to
be what it claims. On occasion, there are further layers,
so a member might first believe themselves a member of
a fraternal drinking club, and then a criminal conspiracy,
and only then initiated into the society’s deeper secrets.
Recruitment is always a challenge for secret societies.
Most societies recruit from a particular pool of
applicants, people who suit them on an ideological level.
One society might take members from the disaffected
and marginalized, another recruits from the cream of the
aristocracy. They tailor their pitches to their proposed
membership and recruit slowly and deliberately,
drawing members into their web one hesitant step at
a time. Societies with cover organizations usually have
an advantage in this regard; if one is looking to recruit
corrupt occultists, then managing a library is an effective
way of locating such dubious characters.
The counterpart, of course, is once one’s in a society,
one does not leave. Many initiates swear fearsome oaths
and make dire promises of vengeance should they leave
or share their conspiracy’s secrets. In Iblydos, I met a
coterie of wizards who had to provide their true names,
written in blood, to the conspiracy’s grand ledger.
More mundane secret societies simply ensure they
have plentiful extortion options for anyone before they
become a member. Others threaten to kill defectors and
follow up on their threats with aplomb.
A THOUSAND SHADOWS
Over the years, our organization has encountered many
secret societies and conspiracies. Though my fellow
archivists have rarely been able to fully catalog their
organizational structure, we’ve learned at least few
pinpricks of information.
The Esoteric Order of the Palatine Eye
A walking contradiction in terms, the Esoteric Order of
the Palatine Eye is the largest and most public secret
society in the Inner Sea region. Any child may tell of its
elegant cathedrals, of the three Thrones that make up its
ranks, of their members’ belief in the numinous power
of self-enlightenment and of the raw power they wield.
Yet secrets remain.
 The order is a chapter-style conspiracy headquartered
in Ustalav, but with tendrils snaking throughout much of
the Inner Sea. After its homeland, its strongest presence
is in Osirion; that ancient land casts a glimmering
fascination upon the order. Each chapter, called a
“Cathedral,” is essentially independent, although
the Cathedral of Caliphas is first among equals. The
order recruits from the wealthy and educated, and at
this point, its membership is reason enough to join, as
initiates are expected to support and aid one another
in all endeavors. To become an ally of such a group is
no small prize. The membership is further divided into
the three Thrones. The Third Throne is the general
rank‑and-file, and most members who are interested
75
75
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
21551621
21551621
21551621
356 6
435616
435616
