paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
21551643
21551643
21551643
35638
435638
435638
Introduction
The
Archivist’s
Training
Manual
The Stolen
Casefiles
Cryptids
Secret
Societies
Deviant
Abilities
Deviant
Abilities
Deviant
Spells
A Song of
Making and
Unmaking
Mirrors and
Imposters
Cults
Curses and
Pacts
Temporal
Anomalies
Mindscapes
Spell &
Item Lists,
Glossary &
Index
Dark
Archive
an archivist to investigate, but the recent situation has left
us too short-handed to follow up. Assuming that Glutton
hasn’t been executed by some enraged vigilante, he is
probably hiding in Absalom.
JUGGERNAUT
This casefile comes entirely second-hand, from an associate
of the late Archivist Messerzeinig in Katheer, who was
able to acquire certain files that used to belong to a local
cell of the Exarchate of the Infinite
Clock—a
rare
and
dangerous
conspiracy that seeks to unlock the
hidden powers of reality through a
great deal of involuntary surgery.
About seven years ago, the
Katheer cell had embarked on a
major experiment. They procured
a set of just over a dozen unwilling
subjects, mostly by kidnapping
young adults in and around the
city’s poorest areas. They then
carved open each subject’s skull and
replaced portions of the brain with
a complex clockwork mechanism.
Of the 14 original subjects, 11 died
during the operation or within
a week of it. Two with signs of
brain damage, otherwise nothing of
interest. But the 14th, a young Keleshite woman, began
to demonstrate a very strange ability.
This woman, Juggernaut, was able to merge her body
with objects of metal and stone, integrating them into
her own flesh with commensurate increase in strength.
In a burst of genuine if ill-omened brilliance, the
Clockmakers began to provide her with especially choice
metal components, including a sliver of inubrix skymetal
and an enchanted Alkenstari engine. In retrospect, they
probably should have expected what followed—as soon
as Juggernaut was strong enough, she killed two of her
captors and escaped. The Clockmakers were still trying
to recover their experiment when they were uncovered
by the Satrap’s agents. Juggernaut’s present location
remains unknown.
MAGPIE
Archivist Harachi encountered this bizarre individual in
Razatlan, while following up an unrelated investigation.
A series of corpses had been discovered in a line of
villages, consistent with a killer moving through the
region, each corpse missing its eyes. In the normal
course of events, this would be disturbing enough, but
according to Harachi, these corpses were not missing
their eyes in the sense of them having been scooped out
with a knife or pecked away by predators. Rather, a
smooth expanse of skin occupied the space where the
victims’ eyes should have been. As if their eyes had never
been there. The actual cause of death was a knife, either
a slit throat or a pinpoint strike to the heart.
Archivist Harachi diverted from his course to follow
up on these strange deaths, and he soon came to the
conclusion that he was not the only person following
the line of deaths—a group of blue-painted soldiers were
also investigating the murders. Harachi attempted to join
their number with his customary “tact” but was rebuffed
and ordered to leave the country. While finding out that
the soldiers had official backing was
interesting, Harachi politely declined
and had to go into hiding.
Archivist Harachi finally caught
up with the killer in the historic
ruins of Yovala, near the border.
The murderer had been traveling
as a pilgrim, wrapped in bandages
to hide what was claimed to be
a
disfiguring
disease.
Harachi
managed to identify them by
connecting the pilgrim to a prior
victim by means of a stolen knife,
and presented himself as a fellow
bandit seeking a partner. The false
pilgrim initially agreed, and then,
as Archivist Harachi expected,
attempted to consume him when
him guard was down.
Without their bandages, the murderer—Harachi
never did discover the individual’s real name—proved
to be covered in blinking, all-gazing eyes, which the
murderer had somehow “scooped” from the corpses
of their victims. To what purpose remains opaque, but
Harachi does report that the murderer crowed about
“seeing every possibility” and “I have their sight and
my sight and soon I’ll have your sight and I will see
and see and see” and similar babbling. They also proved
uncommonly difficult to subdue. Archivist Harachi,
thankfully, is an extremely able shot with a pistol, and
the murderer was neither notably quick nor particularly
strong or skilled but was nevertheless able to keep
up with Harachi by virtue of some kind of spotlights
emitting from their many eyes, which seemed to predict
the trajectory of the archivist’s bullets and which
withered any grass or bark they touched, though leaving
the stone and sand completely unarmed.
How things might have ended remains unclear, as
before things could reach a conclusion the blue soldiers
arrived and tried to arrest both murderer and Archivist
Harachi. Harachi was forced to withdraw, though not
before setting fire to a section of forest. While he is
reasonably certain that the murderer did not escape the
conflagration (also damaging one of the historic ruins,
no doubt), he does admit to being a bit preoccupied with
dodging Razatlani soldiers to confirm by finding the
body. Follow-up investigation is necessary.
97
97
Proposed Mechanism for Fire Projection
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
21551643
21551643
21551643
35638
435638
435638
