paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
21551704
21551704
21551704
35699
435699
435699
RENOWNED CURSES
Gathered below are some of the more interesting curses
that I’ve collected.
The Portrait of Kobad IV: Kobad IV was the Satrap
of Qadira a few centuries ago, and by all accounts was
generally dreadful. It came to pass that during his rule
he mortally wronged a certain painter, an artist of little
talent but great pride. Not long afterward, the painter
produced a family portrait of the satrap, his wife, and his
children, attended by a coterie of half-visible servants.
Curiously, though each member of the satrap’s family
was easily distinguishable by dress and mannerism, their
faces were rendered as smoke.
The painting caused a definite stir in Katheer when it
was shown, and I knew there had to be something deeper.
It turns out the only stir greater than its unveiling was
the stir it caused when the satrap’s youngest son went
missing, only for his anguished features to replace the
smoke atop his portrait and for the face of one of the
servants to become smoke-wreathed itself. The artist was
duly arrested but refused to explain what he’d done, even
as the rest of the satrap’s family gradually disappeared
over the next few months. I’m given to understand that
Kobad IV, before he himself vanished, gave orders for the
artist to be buried alive. The portrait still exists, the satrap
and his family surrounded by smoke-faced servants. Last I
heard, Satrap Xerbystes II displays it in one of his palaces.
The Stolen Lands: This patch of territory in the
northeastern River Kingdoms is notorious for its curses.
Though details are scarce, it seems that even a careless
word or a mundane tragedy in this region might
cause a curse. I have accounts of at least three villages
that were entirely depopulated because of curses that
attracted vile entities or transformed the residents into
something unholy.
The Lix Family Curse: The Lix family are a Chelaxian
archbaronial family hailing from the Archduchy of
Longmarch. Theirs is an unusual sort of curse in that
it’s a matter of public record, though Chelaxian public
record isn’t exactly the easiest thing to get a hold of.
Essentially, the family made a pact with a particular
devil, and because of the pact, they and all their servants
transform into ravening beasts with black wings and
bird-skull heads on the night of the new moon. Out of
general politeness, the Lixes tend to lock themselves
up in their Westcrown townhouse or on their familial
estates during the dangerous periods, though there are
rumors that the occasional importunate or ignorant
acquaintance is invited “to dine” on the nights of the
new moon.
The interesting question is whether the Lix family
suffers their curse for breaking a diabolic pact—or
whether it’s the price they pay for something very,
very precious.
Dr. Seale’s Solutions: The Griff Courant is a small
broadsheet published in Absalom every month by a
conclave of artists, poets, and miscellaneous literary
types. It mostly contains reviews of theaters and
galleries, but it also includes an advertisement wherein
a “Dr. Seale” provides solutions to all the “problems
of humanity” in exchange for a modest fee of 20 silver
weights and “a dram of luck.”
Shockingly, this is not a scam. If one sends the money
by courier, then the following day an object appears
on one’s doorstep, precisely what’s necessary to solve
whatever problem one might have. The “dram of luck”
fee appears quite real as well—everyone who answers
the advertisement invariably suffers some misfortune
within a week. They’re run over by carriages, suffer
poisoning, or in one bizarre case, are knocked senseless
for three days by a flying book.
I’ve not yet had time to investigate Dr. Seale further,
but I expect someone at the Griff Courant must
know more.
The Stolen Codices of Razatlan: The long, slow
decline of the Arcadian nation of Razatlan brought
with it numerous opportunities for looting, and among
the treasures purloined from that withered empire
were several decorated codices, narrating Razatlan’s
founding, its wars and conquests, and its latter days.
Beautifully painted on folded bark paper, over the
centuries a few copies have made their way to Avistan.
They are also cursed, each and every one of them.
The Razatlani mage scribes who penned them included
a curse on the first page of each codex, that the secrets
within be paid for with blood. According to a diary
I was able to access, anyone who possesses one of
Razatlan’s stolen codices finds that anything they write,
whether with ink or spell or charcoal, is replaced with
their own blood, potentially killing the victim if they
don’t realize the source of their gradual weakness. Given
that the diary is written in faded blood, I’m inclined
toward belief.
The Wanting Curse: The wanting curse is a specialty
of the Hungry School of the Mwangi Jungle, whose
adherents use it as both a teaching tool and means
of extortion. The victim’s name is written out on a
piece of wood with inks made of certain plants and
then buried at the bottom of a rubbish heap. From the
following sunset, the victim can see nothing but flaws
in everything around them. Food tastes rancid, music
becomes a cacophony, a friend or loved one is seen as
unspeakably ugly or irritating. Though not inherently
dangerous, many victims grow sickly from being
unwilling to eat or drink what they believe to be rotten
food or foul water.
With outsiders, the Hungry School’s sorcerers usually
wait a while and then offer to remove the curse—for a
suitable price. Among themselves, they use the curse to
illustrate their own nihilistic philosophy, that nothing
has any true value. Supposedly, some elder witches have
labored under the wanting curse for decades.
158
158
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
21551704
21551704
21551704
35699
435699
435699
