paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
21551743
21551743
21551743
35 38
435738
435738
Introduction
The
Archivist’s
Training
Manual
The Stolen
Casefiles
Cryptids
Secret
Societies
Deviant
Abilities
Mirrors and
Imposters
Cults
Curses and
Pacts
Temporal
Anomalies
Mindscapes
Mindscape
Statistics
Psychic
Duels
Psychic
Duelist
Archetype
Mind Smith
Archetype
Sleepwalker
Archetype
The Last
Dream
Spell &
Item Lists,
Glossary &
Index
Dark
Archive
I will note that archivists well versed in mindscapes—
as much as we appreciate them—remain quite rare. Much
of our information comes from accounts of students
under Master Pramyat Mindap. Given the level of secrecy
and potential retaliation from Grand Sarret these sources
shall remain nameless for their safety.
We have records of mindscapes with many levels of
detail, though it’s useful as a baseline to classify them
as immersive or not: an immersive mindscape is one in
which creatures are entirely contained, truly separated
from the world. An immersive mindscape has terrain,
people, weather, structures. Some can feel accurate down
to the blade of grass or text in the books. Rare, but quite
impressive. Someone brought into a mindscape can shape
it with their own mental power, whether aware or not. On
one of our few encounters within a mindscape, I was at
least possessed of enough knowledge of the phenomenon
to shift a moth’s wings from dun to golden, even without
a particular acumen for working mental magic. Our more
adept colleagues were building bridges of bare stones,
walking fully through walls, and flying over trees. Still, a
moth’s wing is more than nothing.
Simpler mindscapes suffice in other circumstances.
Ones termed “binary” mindscapes simply link two minds,
echoing the mindscape’s inhabitants in the Astral Plane
rather than transporting them there entirely. The effect is
akin to the angled mirror illusion in theater, showing the
viewer the illuminated stage of the real world overlayed
with the proverbial offstage scene being reflected into
their view. As interesting as this sounds, in practice these
are often used for mind-against-mind squabbles (or
“psychic duels”) rather than higher pursuits. We’ve been
told these are quite spectacular to those within them,
explosive as a festival dance or fireworks display. From
the outside, this intense experience of perceiving both
the mindscape and outside world simultaneously looks
like a person dosed with basidrond spores attempting to
negotiate small talk about the weather. (That comparison
might not make sense to most people. Hmm.)
A mindscape can shift as suddenly as, quite literally,
changing one’s mind. Emotions are like the weather
within a mindscape and bleed into the environment
easily. Thoughts of a loved one may manifest trite
markers like singing birds and sweet fragrances on the
breeze, or might be more personal, rooted in specific
memories. For example, their beloved’s face might
appear on faces in a crowd within the mindscape. (This
was no doubt a bit embarrassing for Archivist Welmine,
as his infatuation was with his immediate supervisor,
but at least informative!) Those with notable psychic
ability recount a persistent feeling, more direct unease
piped into their minds, appearing more direct and less
metaphorical. A mindscape can be a tangle, a maze, an
oubliette, and these signs can arm those pulled into them
with the means to understand and possibly even escape or
undermine the mindscape. Mental discipline is needed to
maintain a steady mindscape—if the architect considers
that important.
SELF-IMAGE IN FLUX
It must be remembered that the self in the mindscape,
while feeling entirely real, is an astral self. The mindscape
draws from the self-image for its facsimile of each
inhabitant. Usually, that simply means you look like
you, feel like you, act like you. Sometimes, the self-
image has variations from complete accuracy: slightly
more attractive or unattractive, clothing that fits better,
and occasional major variations in parts of the body the
person rarely sees or senses, like the back of the chest or
soles of the feet. The biases of the mindscape’s architect
greatly affect everything within, sometimes altering the
appearance of inhabitants. A hated foe or rival might
have a monstrous look to them or even—and we hesitate
to call it this—dramatic lighting to invoke fear or hate.
Noticing these changed details can inform someone
they’re in a mindscape. They or others might notice
minor discrepancies. The most obvious is usually a
mirrored appearance; the person is most familiar with
their appearance through seeing it in a mirror, so a friend
notices their mole is on the other side of their face or the
part in their hair is reversed. Changes can be intentional
if one is aware they’re in a mindscape. Especially within
psychic duels, appearances can change on a whim.
We suspect the minds of the tenants fill in some
details within a mindscape, so the architect doesn’t have
to craft every flower petal and grain of sand. That the
architect can make a perfect facsimile in one step seems
impossible, though research on this point is scarce.
It’s exceedingly difficult to differentiate who invented
what in a mindscape, as sensation and thoughts blur
between individuals. Accounts we’ve uncovered show the
participants doubtful about their experience as a whole,
which layers even greater doubt on every detail. As the
metaphysical makeup of a mindscape resembles that of
a dream, it’s possible the mindscape relies on the same
mechanisms to present a believable world.
Some mindscapes are intended for only one resident.
We term these insular mindscapes for simplicity. They’re
most often used as personal realms for their architects,
whether said architect deliberately created a sanctuary
for study, contemplation, isolation, or other means,
or has inadvertently made a mindscape and become
trapped within it. Outsiders rarely see the inside of these
mindscapes, but our data points to most being little more
interesting than private studies, libraries, or clubhouses.
They can sometimes be a bit more... shameful. Places
where the architect goes to flout traditional mores and
make fantasies come true. The exploits within might be
embarrassing if revealed, but the activity is harmlessly
conducted within one mind. Unless, of course, something
within escapes, which is a possibility with any such
creation. But we’ll discuss that later.
197
197
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
21551743
21551743
21551743
35 38
435738
435738
