paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
21551660
21551660
21551660
35655
435655
435655
The Inn of Healing
Incident Location: [Redacted] Inn, Verduran Forest,
Andoran, Avistan
Incident Type: Fountain
Reporting Archivist: Aether Kels
When tragedy sunk my great-aunt’s vessel, I, eldest of
her grandnieces, was called away to settle her affairs. Of
great many worthwhile items, I felt oddly struck by one
of them: an antique, unlabeled bottle full of rich liquid.
Though sealed shut with wax, it wasn’t quite full. The
red liquid looked superficially like many wines I have
encountered, yet it was clearly unlike any of them. I can’t
say whether I knew this from its viscosity, or color, or
from no clear sign at all. Curious, I took it downstairs,
setting it on the windowsill before I slumbered.
Near midnight, I awoke with a start. The bottle, slightly
aglow, caught my eye—I felt a curious fright. Full moon’s
light revealed within it deep, swirling bands of red...
“Imbibe me, all will be well...” Did I hear it, or was I
too worn from stress?
Suddenly a leather-bound diary fell from a high shelf
with a CRACK! The pages stared at me, the book open to
perfectly display a specific entry. I snatched it up, curious
about the page it had fallen to and began to read. What
follows are the contents of that entry:
After arriving at Mirus Inn, I took respite in the garden.
’Twas there I met the inn keep, who looked not over 30
summers old, long braids shining in the moonlight. She
walked with an ethereal grace. Her smile eased every
pain in my heart. Before I retired, she motioned toward
me, handing me a glass of wine. “Try this,” she said. “Let
your heart be glad.” The draft—a deep, bold red—felt
kind on my throat. Immediately, I felt immense lightness
to my step, ease in my heart. I slept with sweeter dreams
than in many moons.
In the garden under early light she greeted
me with a weary smile. I presumed she’d not
slept well, and thinking no more of it, saw
her not till late meal. She reappeared after
supper, carrying another glass of wine. “For
you,” she said, voice low. “Thank you, m’lady!”
I said, winking, hoping I’d give her cheer. If
she laughed then, I don’t know. She stumbled
forward as I caught her arm to break her fall.
Why was her skin so cold? She smiled weakly,
limping away. The wine, rich as last time, left
my heart further at ease. Retiring much renewed, I
slept well through the night.
Next day, I strolled through an oak grove nearby,
finding a strange, long ditch. A tall stone there bore
two chalk tally marks—odder still... a handprint
in the dirt nearby, as if someone recently
scrambled out. I shivered deeply, retreating toward the
inn. I queried the cook about the inn keep, whom I’d not
seen all morning. “She’s weary. Needs rest,”he said, with
dismissive nonchalance. Worry rose in my throat.
I went in search of the inn keep’s room and found her
door wide open. A thin voice spoke, “Come.” She waved
shakily from her divan, unbraided hair spilling over
her nightdress in disarray. “Drink.” Upon the table
sat an empty wineglass and a bottle with drops of wine
spilled down the sides. Except it was not wine. It seemed
a much deeper, brighter red, and far thicker, too. It
looked almost like blood. Locking eyes with her, I could
not withhold my terror.
“The spring here grants eternal life,” she said
solemnly. “Don’t drink it, else you’ll know my plight.”
“This...”my voice cracked. I couldn’t ask.
“Yes.”Her eyes looked mournful, “My blood holds magic,
not to make another live forever, just regain what one has
lost. I’m fated to revive. In one moon-cycle I shall be anew,
and though it tires me so, I will be ready to give of myself
once more”
Through tears I muttered, “Why?”
“I soothe all broken hearts I can. Each death offers
short respite.”
The cook arrived, looking grim. Taking her frail form
carefully into his arms, he motioned I follow. Among the
oaks we laid her down, bedsheet wrapped around her
like a cocoon, in the ditch I’d seen that morning. On
his demand, I wrote a third tally upon the stone, into a
well-worn groove. How many times had she sacrificed so?
Birdsong, which had failed as we carried her, started up
again, frantic and alive. Departing, I thought I heard a
faint breath, a soft sigh, echo throughout the woods.
Returning, the cook poured the wine into a flask.
“Take it when your heart becomes weary, or soul
troubled.” With that, I departed, ne’er to return.
Though I feel part of her is still with me... forever
in my blood.
WINE OF THE BLOOD
ITEM 5
RARE
CONSUMABLE
HEALING
MAGICAL
NECROMANCY
POTION
Price 30 gp
Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk L
Activate [one-action] Interact
This wine, prepared using the blood of a creature
with overwhelming vitality, soothes the body, mind, and
spirit with a temporary sense of euphoria and rest. When
you drink wine of the blood, you recover 2d10 Hit Points.
Additionally, the wine attempts to counteract every negative
emotion effect affecting you, with a counteract level of 3
and a counteract modifier of +9. Lastly, you gain a +1
status bonus to all Will saves, or a +2 status bonus
against emotion effects, for 1 minute.
Wine of the Blood
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
21551660
21551660
21551660
35655
435655
435655
