paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
21551641
21551641
21551641
35636
435636
435636
Introduction
The
Archivist’s
Training
Manual
The Stolen
Casefiles
Cryptids
Secret
Societies
Deviant
Abilities
Deviant
Abilities
Deviant
Spells
A Song of
Making and
Unmaking
Mirrors and
Imposters
Cults
Curses and
Pacts
Temporal
Anomalies
Mindscapes
Spell &
Item Lists,
Glossary &
Index
Dark
Archive
talk” about such things in the nameless community that
Poppy hailed from—but the key point is that at a certain
stage, the abuse escalated to physical violence.
As best Archivist Feries was able to piece together, on
the night of the 17th of Rova, 4718, Poppy stepped in to
try and shield her younger sister from a brutal beating
by their father. This both redirected and intensified
their parent’s wrath, and in the ensuing confrontation
something extremely strange occurred. The local plant
life began to produce pollen. Pollen with a very strong
soporific effect. The effect spread out from Poppy’s farm
in a rough circle, knocking out half the village. Poppy’s
father, curiously, received such a strong dose that he never
woke up, dying in a coma some weeks later. Poppy herself
went into what, reading between the lines of Archivist
Feries’s report, was a species of allergic shock—it fell to
her sister to nurse her through the subsequent illness, and
to spirit them away when suspicion in their father’s death
fell upon them.
Archivist Feries was able to track the pair for some
time by following up on rumors of unexplained comas
or entire areas falling asleep, but the trail went cold in
central Taldor. It is possible that Poppy and her sister
were killed, but I suspect—no, I know—that the girl is
still out there somewhere; as her powers were reliant on
a specific ecological environment, it could be that she’s
simply left it behind. Maybe the sisters now safely reside
in Oppara or some such city, living peacefully and staying
away from parks or gardens.
In any case, Poppy’s situation is a good study of several
typical elements of a deviant ability manifestation. First,
they rarely conform to traditional spellwork, and are
often extremely complex or situational. Archivist Feries
consulted with several druids, and at best a few suggested
some theoretical ways that Poppy’s effect might be
achieved, but none had ever experienced something like
this firsthand. Secondly, the abilities come unexpectedly,
but are often triggered as a result of extreme stress,
whether violence, emotional conflict, or similar. Though
not an absolute rule, most deviant abilities manifest in
unhappy situations. Third and lastly, the ability is both
powerful and taxing. Poppy was able to knock out several
square miles, but the shock of it quite nearly killed her.
Whether with practice she would have learned to control
her powers more effectively is an interesting question, but
one we do not have the means to answer.
SILVERSMITH
Another file I have here relates the case of one Silversmith,
the scion of a minor Nidalese noble family near Pangolais.
From an extremely young age, Silversmith displayed
what I might term “argentokinesis”—the ability to
manipulate silver, and only silver. According to the family
servants I interrogated after the fact, the youth’s talent
was discovered when, at the age of four, he was found
casually rearranging the crests on the family silverware.
The family, displaying uncommonly good sense knowing
the danger that comes from power over silver in a land
of monsters that recoil from its touch, contrived to keep
young Silversmith’s power under wraps.
With plenty of time to practice and a relatively safe
environment, Silversmith seems to have mastered his
ability to an uncommon degree. By the age of twelve
he was able to transform silver from solid to liquid and
back, and by eighteen could shape silver at a range of
sixty paces. Around when the youth was twenty, several
rival noble families found themselves attacked by a
lethal assassin (the young man did come from Nidalese
aristocracy). It was on one such foray that he was
eventually discovered, and the family forced to publicly
repudiate their wayward scion. How much of that is
true remains questionable, but Silversmith has been seen
operating as a rather debonair killer-for-hire in several
other parts of Avistan.
GLOWWORM
As a best estimate, most deviant abilities manifest around
when the subject reaches adulthood, with the second
largest contingent acquiring them in early childhood.
Glowworm is one of the exceptions, a tengu woman, a
widow, living in Kwanlai. Powers manifested at the age of
about sixty-three. I’ve been unable to determine what the
inciting event was for this—chances are good that there
were no other witnesses to it, and only Glowworm knows
for certain. In any case, Glowworm’s powers relate to the
silk manufacture that is her village’s specialty, and to a
tradition of silk-weavers singing while they work.
Glowworm’s song causes the silk she is working on
to glow with a soft, inner light, which thereafter never
entirely fades. I have a sample before me right now, and
to the best of my abilities I’ve been able to determine
no other powers or characteristics. Just glowing silk,
albeit very well made. Nevertheless, Glowworm’s silk
is in high demand, as it has been variously termed
auspicious, blessed, or simply lucky, and it is interesting
that as near as I can determine, none of the wearers of
her silks have suffered from unfortunate accidents or
unexpected diseases.
The old woman can only produce a small amount
of silk per day—the process is extremely exhausting
and causes her internal body temperature to rise to a
worrisome degree if she continues for too long. At present,
Glowworm remains in her village, her silk fetching a high
price, and a few suitable gifts to the local lords allow her
to stay where she is. How long that situation can remain
stable, or what will happen when someone insists on her
exclusive production, is anyone’s guess.
ABYSS
This is a file I have from Archivist Krayne, who
discovered rumors of a “shark-talker” while in the
Shackles. Investigating further, she discovered that a
95
95
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
21551641
21551641
21551641
35636
435636
435636
