paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
21551717
21551717
21551717
35
435712
435712
Introduction
The
Archivist’s
Training
Manual
The Stolen
Casefiles
Cryptids
Secret
Societies
Deviant
Abilities
Mirrors and
Imposters
Cults
Curses and
Pacts
Pacts Witch
Patron
Cursed Items
Tempting
Curses
Bargained
Contracts
Pactbinder
Archetype
Curse
Maelstrom
Archetype
Wishes in
Krasnoprudny
Temporal
Anomalies
Mindscapes
Spell &
Item Lists,
Glossary &
Index
Dark
Archive
Critical Success While it’s certainly not impossible, such a
big curse afflicting an entire village sounds rather out of
character for a winter witch—they tend to be more focused.
More likely it’s some kind of fey, perhaps a poludnica (field
fey), vodyanoy (water fey), or elder leshy (forest plant fey).
Success Irrisen is a land with plenty of curses, but the two
most likely culprits are winter witches, who have a habit
of cursing people who cross them, and capricious fey, who
curse for whatever reason seems to make sense to them.
Critical Failure If there’s a curse in Irrisen, then it must
have been cast with the knowledge, or more likely the
participation, of Baba Yaga herself.
Welcoming Committee
As Krasnoprudny lies well off the beaten track, the PCs
make the last leg of their journey by means of a passing
donkey cart operated by an old peddler named Maiksim
(CG male human peddler). The trip is an uneventful
sojourn through the beautiful, frozen Irriseni countryside,
interrupted only periodically by Maiksim’s ongoing feud
with his donkey, Conqueror. Grand, gloomy pine trees
cluster thickly on either side of the slender road, little red
berries twinkling from the depths of the snow. From time
to time, the PCs spot the tracks of deer and rabbits, or
glimpse of an arctic fox going about its business. A few
nightingales sing late into the evening.
Finally, the donkey cart turns a corner, and the PCs
get their first good look at Krasnoprudny. It’s a modest
little village of maybe twenty houses, with sturdy walls
made of cut logs and sharply pitched wooden roofs. It’s
clearly not a very prosperous place, but it doesn’t look
impoverished either—the houses have carved windowsills
and cornices, and there are a few barns here and there. As
with everything in Irrisen, the village is covered in a layer
of fresh-fallen snow.
Before the party can get any closer, Conqueror the
Donkey decides that this is entirely too much work for
one day and stops pulling the cart to nibble on some
nearby shrubs (not for the first time on this trip), at which
point Maiksim loses his temper and begins swearing,
saying “Ah, devil take you, you lazy beast!”
Whereupon a very strange thing happens. Out of the
bushes, a pair of diminutive pig-featured imps trot out
and begin to abduct Conqueror in a very business-like
fashion. One of the imps quickly removes Conqueror’s
harness while the other contrives to heft the entire (loudly
braying) donkey, despite being the size of a small child.
At this point, unless the PCs intervene, the imps make
off with the donkey after a few minutes of work, leaving
behind a befuddled and donkey-less Maiksim and a
party who needs to walk the last mile to Krasnoprudny.
Any hostile attack or spell on the part of the PCs causes
the imps to drop Conqueror and run away, or else
explode into a cloud of noxious soot. This rescues the
donkey but leaves the PCs with something of a mystery
on their hands.
Alternatively, the PCs can attempt to yell at or talk to
the imps. Getting their attention requires a successful DC
24 Intimidation check to Coerce or Diplomacy check to
Make an Impression, whereupon the imps begin to loudly
and profanely complain that they were offered a donkey
and simply came to collect. A PC who succeeds at a DC
24 Religion check to Recall Knowledge can observe that
this is very much not standard imp behavior—something
or someone is nudging the imps to act this way. During
the ensuing conversation, the PCs might have a few
questions for the imps. Use or paraphrase the following
questions and answers as guidance.
Who
are
you?
“I’m
Moldy-Cheese.”
“And
I’m Mosquito-by-Ear.”
Why are you trying to take our donkey? “It’s not your
donkey!” Moldy-Cheese says. “We were offered it fair
and square.” “He said devil take it,” Mosquito-by-Ear
adds, pointing to Maiksim, “so we did!”
Why does an imp want a donkey? This seems to confuse
the two imps for a moment, and they look at one another.
Finally, Moldy-Cheese says, “I don’t know...”
“We were home, and then suddenly... we were here,”
Mosquito-by-Ear says. “And then we just knew we had
to take this donkey.”
This more or less exhausts the useful information that
the two imps have, although if the PCs manage to learn
about the imps’ arrival in Golarion, they can attempt a
DC 26 Arcana or Occultism check to Recall Knowledge
about summoning. On a success, the PC is able to decipher
the imps’ comments as meaning they were summoned not
by a specific mage, but by some kind of automatic process
(a spell, ritual, or curse)—an extremely powerful process
if it can just casually summon fiends, but also, from the
available evidence, not a terribly bright one.
In any case, the PCs can deal with the imps as they
please—they can bribe them with a few moldy apples or
threaten to kick them until they leave—either way, the imps
disappear—and the PCs can proceed into Krasnoprudny.
ABOUT THIS ADVENTURE
Recommended Level: Team of four 9th-level
characters.
The adventure begins with the PCs arriving in
Krasnoprudny, in Irrisen, the land of eternal winter.
They quickly discover that something very odd is
going on when some imps try to steal their donkey.
Investigating the village makes it clear that the
entire place is laboring under an odd sort of curse—
where casual exclamations and idioms become real.
The source of the trouble is probably the nearby
pond and the creatures living there. Ultimately, the
PCs will have to convince a pair of proud, prickly
primal beings that their benevolent efforts have
gone astray, all without offending them enough to
get the village flooded.
171
171
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
21551717
21551717
21551717
35
435712
435712
