paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
21551691
21551691
21551691
35686
435686
435686
Introduction
The
Archivist’s
Training
Manual
The Stolen
Casefiles
Cryptids
Secret
Societies
Deviant
Abilities
Mirrors and
Imposters
Cults
Living Vessel
Archetype
Apocryphal
Domain
Spells
Cult Rituals
The Verdure
of Iblydos
Curses and
Pacts
Temporal
Anomalies
Mindscapes
Spell &
Item Lists,
Glossary &
Index
Dark
Archive
BACCHANALIA
RITUAL 6
UNCOMMON
ENCHANTMENT
MENTAL
Cast 1 day; Cost a lavish meal with expensive alcohol for
every caster (225 gp); Secondary Casters 8
Primary Check Occultism or Religion; Secondary Checks
Performance
Duration until midnight (see text)
You hold an elaborate feast and stoke the celebratory spirit,
causing it to spread to other people nearby; you buoy them
with hope and good cheer as they revel into the night.
The ritual was first developed by the cult of the hero-god
Kelksiomides in Iblydos and meant to be a benefit to the
community during hard times, though other groups have
used it for far different purposes, such as to spread chaos or
to provide cover for a heist.
You and the secondary casters begin your feast in a public
space where others can see you, exactly 8 hours before dusk.
When dusk falls, you complete the ritual. The party spreads
outward from your initial site until it slowly encompasses
the settlement (for a town or smaller), or a district or division
of up to approximately 1,000 people (for a larger settlement).
Those partaking in the celebration are fascinated until the
ritual comes to an end (or someone uses a hostile action
toward them, as usual). The partying appears to spread
naturally, as others see the revelers, they too slowly join
until the celebration reaches its peak size. The spell’s effect
ends sharply at midnight, but that doesn’t mean people stop
partying right away if they’re enjoying themselves.
Critical Success The party is a huge hit! The effects work as
above, except that in a larger settlement, the celebration
can spread to an area with as many as 10,000 people.
Furthermore, the celebration leaves strong memories in
the hearts of those who participated, causing locals to
commemorate it or possibly outlaw such celebrations
(depending on their view of the event).
Success The party is successful. It spreads as described in
the ritual’s description.
Failure The party never really catches on. You and the
secondary casters get to celebrate, but the most other
people do is give you odd looks.
Critical Failure Instead of celebration, you inspire anger
and resentment toward you and the secondary casters
for disturbing the peace or possibly even deepening the
despair of a people who are already troubled. People in the
area have their attitudes toward you temporarily adjusted
two steps worse than normal. Those who become hostile
won’t necessarily attack you, but they will mock you,
break up your revelry, and potentially arrest you.
CONTACT FRIENDS
RITUAL 3
UNCOMMON
DIVINATION
Cast 1 hour; Cost incense worth 50 gp; Secondary Casters 1
(or more)
Primary Check Arcana or Occultism (expert); Secondary
Checks Survival
Duration up to 10 minutes
You meditate for a quiet moment before your mind seeks out
others whom you have befriended, as well as friends of any
of the secondary casters. The ritual projects your mind to a
blank space where you see one or more friends from your
past. Once there, you can ask each friend a single question.
If more than one friend is present, you can ask each one a
different question. These friends aren’t compelled to answer
you honestly or answer at all, but those who are your friends
are likely to help you if they can, barring special situations.
Critical Success You contact up to three close friends of
yourself or any of the secondary casters, and the friends
attempt to help you with their knowledge. They each
answer one of your questions, as described above.
Success As critical success, but your mind reaches one
friend, instead of three.
Failure Your mind reaches three friends you’ve made in the
past, but each of them gives you a useless fact. None of
these facts help with your situation at all.
Critical Failure Your mind freezes. You saw something that
terrified you to your core, leaving you and all other casters
stupefied 3 for 1 day.
OBLIVIOUS EXPULSION
RITUAL 5
UNCOMMON
ENCHANTMENT
MENTAL
Cast 1 day; Cost incense worth a total value of 150 gp;
Secondary Casters 2
Primary Check Occultism (master) or Religion (master);
Secondary Checks Deception, Society
Range 30 feet; Targets 1 creature
Duration unlimited
Severing ties with a member of a cult courts danger and
threatens to undermine the secrecy of the group, whether that
secrecy protects its worshippers or enables them to operate in
the shadows. Many cults end their association with a wayward
member on the edge of a blade, but there are options that
preserve both secrecy and the life of the expelled member.
An oblivious expulsion removes knowledge of the cult but is
time-consuming enough that a cult usually reserves it for only
the most well-regarded members who nevertheless need to be
removed—or for sleeper agents the cult wishes to place among
society and activate later.
CULT RITUALS
Rituals are common among cults, used to bring members together via shared ceremony, create useful magical helpers,
or contact powerful entities. A cult’s leader is usually the primary caster, with the secondary casters from among
trusted cult members. A ritual that requires sacrifices sometimes sources from truly willing members, but in the case
of unscrupulous or evil cults, pulls them from innocent victims or from lower-ranking members who have been
manipulated into accepting the sacrifice.
145
145
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
21551691
21551691
21551691
35686
435686
435686
