paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
21551681
21551681
21551681
356 6
435676
435676
The Criminal Hammer
Incident Location: Cheliax (various settlements), Avistan
Incident Type: Gremlin / Peregrine (hybrid designation)
Reporting Archivist: Paralictor Lorellinda Ursion, Order
of the Scourge
Paralictor Ursion’s Report
Paralictor Ursion’s Report
“The hammer,” as I shall refer to it, is a vexing
object with a seemingly supernatural ability to show
up in the hands of lawbreakers. Physically, it
appears as nothing more than a mundane ball-peen
hammer of the sort used by craftspeople. The haft
is 13 inches long and made of common ash wood but
with a distinct pattern of brass filigree.
The head is 5 inches across
and made of low-grade iron.
The entirety weighs 18 ounces.
There’s no visible maker’s mark
(likely adding tax evasion to the numerous
crimes with which it has been involved).
I have thus far been unable to detect any
magical auras on the thing but won’t rule out
the possibility. No matter the precautions taken,
the hammer, or perhaps an identical duplicate,
always finds its way into the possession of some
piece of criminal scum. Or maybe the hammer
is the cause of their illegal behavior?
It was shortly after my first promotion to
command I first encountered this accursed tool.
The hammer was among confiscated evidence
from a routine arrest for burglary. It would have
remained a mere footnote of that case were it not for
an incident less than a week later. A minor uprising
culminated with an audacious rioter injuring the local
baron. We quickly crushed the rabble. Curiously, the
weapon of choice in the assault was the hammer.
I now admit I may have been hasty in punishing
my subordinates for not properly securing the evidence
locker, but the beatings no doubt helped them build
character. Unfortunately, the guilty halfling was
killed when we crushed the rebellion, and I didn’t yet
have the authority to call in those who might be able
to interrogate the corpse. This time, I secured the
hammer personally, to no avail. Something—perhaps
the hammer itself, perhaps an outside force—removed
it from my lockup without a trace of the method.
My interest was piqued. I began to research other
cases. Lo and behold, I found dozens of hammers
matching the item’s description in files and reports
stretching back decades. Larceny seems to be a
common thread. Burglary, robbery, and pickpocketing
make up most of the reports, with a single case of
fraud and a handful of violent crimes, though I
suspect the latter also involved thefts but were simply
overshadowed. Incidents of the hammer later
disappearing emerge in some of the reports but not
others. I can’t be sure if this means something
or if it’s just a reflection of sloppy record-keeping.
The earliest account I could find is from over a
hundred years ago. A village constable confiscated
the hammer and other goods from the cottage of a
notorious burglar. If only our forebears had kept more
precise records.
A few years ago, I was given a second chance.
One of my underlings picked up a cutpurse in
possession of the hammer, a wretch of a man
named Igino the Dirty. He certainly earned that
moniker. Extensive interrogation of Igino revealed he
stole the hammer from a local tinker and hoped to
pawn it. A search of the tinker’s shop revealed signs
of a hasty retreat, but none of the tinker herself
(likely another criminal of lesser consequence). I
had the hammer in hand. In the event it was
a corrupting influence leading the weak‑willed
to crime, I decided to dispose of the thing.
I had it burned to ash and slag in a
blacksmith’s fire and then assigned my most
reliable armigers to keep watch on the remains
throughout the day and night. I must amend
that—my formerly
formerly most reliable armigers. I don’t
care which of them decided to rest their eyes when
the remains disappeared, though their denials and
accusations of each other are vigorous. They will all
be punished for their failure.
I will not allow myself the hope that this is the
end of that damned hammer. I will find where the
hammer reappears next and uncover its true nature
once and for all.
LEGACY OF THE HAMMER
BACKGROUND
UNCOMMON
Your introduction to the criminal life was spurred forward by a
seemingly innocuous hammer that provided you with all kinds
of innovative criminal ideas. It has since left your possession,
but every now and then you hear a faint whisper urging you
toward crime.
Choose two ability boosts. One must be to Dexterity or
Charisma, and one is a free ability boost.
You’re trained in the Thievery skill and Engineering Lore.
You gain the Concealing Legerdemain skill feat (Advanced
Player’s Guide 204).
The Hammer
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
21551681
21551681
21551681
356 6
435676
435676
