paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
21551649
21551649
21551649
356
435644
435644
Introduction
The
Archivist’s
Training
Manual
The Stolen
Casefiles
Cryptids
Secret
Societies
Deviant
Abilities
Deviant
Abilities
Deviant
Spells
A Song of
Making and
Unmaking
Mirrors and
Imposters
Cults
Curses and
Pacts
Temporal
Anomalies
Mindscapes
Spell &
Item Lists,
Glossary &
Index
Dark
Archive
the damage type to mental, changes the save to a Will save,
removes the auditory trait, and adds the mental trait.
Awakening Your wail saps your foes’ strength. In addition
to the normal effects, living creatures in the area are enfeebled
1 for 1 round on a success (but not a critical success), enfeebled
1 for 1 minute on a failure, and enfeebled 2 for 1 minute on a
critical failure.
DISTANT WANDERING [one-action]
FEAT 10
RARE
DEVIANT
EVOCATION
MAGICAL
Your body falls unconscious and your spirit projects out of it.
While in spirit form, you can’t consciously move your body, and
you are invisible and inaudible, though a creature still might
notice the signs of your presence and passing, just like for an
invisible creature affected by silence, or a prying eye. You can
freely move about, though you can’t touch or move anything,
cast spells, attack, or otherwise affect anything around you.
Despite your ghostly form, you are not incorporeal and can’t
pass through barriers you couldn’t in your body. Most effects
can’t harm your spirit form, though some spells, like spirit
blast and spirit song, explicitly damage a creature’s spirit.
You can return to your body as a free action. If you are in
spirit form at the beginning of your turn, you must attempt
another backlash check for your deviation, returning to your
body if you fail.
Awakening Your spirit moves at the speed of thought. You
gain a fly Speed and a +20-foot status bonus to your Speed
while in spirit form.
Awakening Time seems to pass more slowly while you are
projecting your spirit, letting you notice things around you.
When you enter spirit form, you can Recall Knowledge or
Seek. You are quickened while in spirit form and can use the
extra action only to Recall Knowledge or Seek.
TABLE 5: ABILITY QUIRKS
d10	 Quirk
1
Temporal Effectiveness The deviation’s power feels slightly stronger (or slightly weaker) at a specific time of day.
2
Musical Notation Your deviation produces strange ethereal tones or chimes when activated, or you activate it through
singing, whistling, or similar performance.
3
Strange Biology When you gained your deviation, you grew extra eyes, a set of chitinous antennae, or some other
strange biological feature unusual for your ancestry. While you might be able to hide it underneath clothing, your
deviant abilities all center around this organ, so it must be uncovered and unobstructed for you to use your deviation.
4
Chromatic Absorption Whenever you use your deviation, you absorb or mute a specific color from an object near you, and
any manifestation of your deviant ability has that color. The absorbed colors return to your surroundings within an hour.
5
Selective Application The deviation works slightly better (or slightly worse) on a certain type of creature (such as
gnomes or caterpillars) or material (such as glass or silver).
6
Atmospheric Disturbance When you use your deviation, tiny clouds, light wind, or other small atmospheric
disturbances occur within 5 feet of your body.
7
Fractal Sign Your deviation causes sand, droplets, small insects, or other lightweight objects to organize themselves
into strange, geometric patterns whenever activated.
8
Harmless Wound When you use your deviation, trace amounts of blood drip from your eyes or nose.
9
Strange Fuel Each day, you must consume a small amount of a specific material, such as quartz or holy water (which
you can do harmlessly), or your deviation is painful to use.
10
Forgotten Prayers When you gain your deviation, piecemeal knowledge of a forgotten language fills your mind—not
enough to communicate, but enough that you control your deviation by commanding or beseeching some higher power
in the language.
Backlash: Encroaching Presence
Seeing and touching the beyond leaves you open to its alien
influence, warping your perceptions and thoughts.
Mild Backlash Something inexplicable touches your mind,
leaving you with lingering horror. You become frightened 3.
Moderate Backlash Disorienting visions and figments cover
your vision, as if you’re seeing through another set of alien
senses. For 10 minutes, all creatures become concealed to you
as they are covered in visual distortions only you can see.
Severe Backlash Your life force is siphoned away as the
presence tugs your soul to wherever it resides. You become
doomed 1 and drained 2 until your next daily preparations.
Quirks
No two deviant abilities are exactly alike, and even when
two characters gain the same ability in the same event,
individual factors like age, ancestry, and personality alter
how their abilities manifest. Every deviant ability has one or
two quirks, determined when the ability is gained. If playing
with background deviant abilities, collaborate with your
player to decide the quirk, maybe each suggesting one. If
playing with campaign deviant abilities, simply pick quirks
that fit the story or roll randomly.
You can also use the quirks on Table 5 as a guide to invent
new ones for your players. These quirks don’t normally have
any mechanical effect, since their purpose is only to alter
minor details of a power to make them stand out, though
they may have narrative implications on occasion. If you
want to give a quirk a mechanical effect, it should never
grant more than a +1 status bonus or –1 status penalty,
and even then the statistic or check it applies to should be
narrow and not in the direct control of the character with
the quirk.
103
103
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
21551649
21551649
21551649
356
435644
435644
