paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
21551639
21551639
21551639
3563
435634
435634
The Anvil and the Duck
Incident Location: [Redacted] Village, River Kingdoms,
Avistan
Incident Type: Figment
Reporting Archivist: Murana
FROM THE JOURNAL OF HUMPHREY L. WYNFALL
Randall and I elected to finish our breakfast
before setting out to see the commotion. As we
arrived at the forge just north of the square,
we saw a few others who had taken interest
in the proceedings: the local herbalist, an
elven man wearing hunting leathers, and an
armored town guard among them. Aldric,
the blacksmith, was gesturing to the duck
sitting in the center of his workshop.
It was plain to anybody in the room: the
man’s anvil, which I had seen there not a
day before, had been replaced by the largest
duck I’ve ever seen! Remarkable size, and
quiet as a temple mouse, just sitting there
pleased with itself. Randall could scarce
believe his eyes at first—the man insisted the
anvil hadn’t changed before I pointed out
that of course, this was a duck that sat
before him.
With the herbalist’s help, we calmed the
blacksmith and collected the facts. He
heard nothing all night, but when he awoke
this morning some prankster had replaced
his trusty anvil with a duck. Despite the
man’s best efforts, the duck
wouldn’t leave. We tried
shooing it away, scaring it
off—I even had Randall set
off one of his noisemakers,
and there the duck sat!
Even lifting it scarce
budged it; never have
I met a more dense or
stubborn animal in all my
years of travel.
The remainder of our
day was spent trying to get the blasted thing
to move. Marcus, the guard, applied the flat
of his blade to the duck’s backside, resulting
in naught but a loud metallic clang from the
tail feathers. The herbalist’s poultices only
produced ghastly smells and induced rust
upon the duck’s beak, typical for this species
of waterfowl, I presume. Around dinnertime,
one of the children brought another duck,
fetched from the pond, in the hopes it would
encourage its larger compatriot to leave, but
neither duck showed any interest in the other.
The second duck did induce a powerful
confusion in the hunter, however, and they
spent the remainder of the evening trying to
figure out how to pluck a feather from the
larger creature.
Everyone who agreed to an interview swears the anvil was
replaced by a duck for two days and then returned. None
appear to have puzzled out the obvious illusion yet. Still
trying to track down Wynfall’s companions; the guard
mentioned was buried in Magnimar years later, the rest
are still in the wind.
FALSE NATURE
SPELL 4
UNCOMMON
ILLUSION
Traditions arcane, occult
Cast [three-actions] material, somatic, verbal
Range touch; Target one unattended item or one item you’re
holding
Duration until your next daily preparations
You create an illusion that makes an object seem to be
something entirely different. When you Cast this Spell, speak
aloud a declarative statement that the target is a different,
nonspecific object. Your statement can’t presuppose any other
facts. For instance, you could claim an object is “a stone” or
“an antidote,” but not “the Starstone” or “the
antidote to the lethal poison you already
drank.” Creatures who previously observed
the target receive an immediate Will save
to disbelieve, but on a failure, the illusion
temporarily rewrites their memory that the
object was something different. A creature who
failed their Will save, or didn’t already see the
item’s original form, must Interact with the
illusion as normal to receive a Perception
check against the spell DC to disbelieve.
When the spell ends, targets remember
the object’s true nature, even if they never
disbelieved the spell.
False Nature
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
21551639
21551639
21551639
3563
435634
435634
