paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
21551748
21551748
21551748
35
3
435743
435743
Attacks and
Defenses
Any action taken in a mindscape
is converted into a thoughtform
called a psychic manifestation. An
attack or spell has essentially the effect
one would expect it to, though its form
is far more mutable in the mindscape.
Though taking place in the mind, a
psychic duel still consumes any resources
used by its combatants, such as HP and
spell slots. A skilled warrior brought into a
psychic duel isn’t a helpless weakling; their
martial arts training carries over into the
thoughtforms they use in the duel. Statistics and
actions change in a psychic duel as follows.
Always Use Will Defense: Because a psychic duel pits
mind against mind, you use Will for all saving throws
and your Will DC as your Armor Class. In cases where a
different DC (not a save or AC) would be used for defense,
the GM determines which statistic to use, typically
replacing only ones based on physical ability modifiers.
Any Damage Becomes Mental Damage: Any damage
dealt in a psychic duel is converted to mental damage. Any
immunities, resistances, and weaknesses a creature would
normally have to the psychic manifestation’s form still apply,
for instance, applying fire resistance to a psychic fireball.
Apply the higher of a creature’s weakness or resistance to
the damage as normal. Weakness or resistance to mental
damage applies only once against a given manifestation, no
matter how many types of damage it deals.
Change Strike Damage: Though Strikes use their
normal ability scores to represent thoughtform versions
of the attacker’s prowess, any physical ability modifier
to damage is replaced with the attacker’s highest mental
ability modifier. A creature stat block typically doesn’t list
a breakdown of its Strike damage, but the GM can find
the difference between its Strength modifier and highest
mental ability modifier to adjust the damage.
Range Doesn’t Matter: Spells and attacks with a range
can target anyone inside the mindscape without penalty,
even if outside their maximum range or range increment.
Spells and abilities that affect a specific area or emanate
from you must still follow those restrictions. Melee attacks
only target foes within your reach.
NATURAL PSYCHIC SPELLS
Any creature in a psychic duel can cast two spells, both
heightened to half the participant’s level, rounded up.
They can cast the daze cantrip at will and get a second
spell that can be cast once during the duel. They choose
from the following when they roll initiative: fear, phantom
pain, or a common summoning spell (typically summon
animal, summon construct, summon fey, or summon lesser
servitor SoM for a 1st-level spell). If the creature can’t cast
spells, they gain these as innate occult spells until the end
of the psychic duel. If they can already cast spells, they
add these to their other spells and temporarily gain any
spell slots necessary to cast them (even if they
can’t cast spells of that level yet) that can be
used only for the additional spell. Natural
psychic spells use the higher of the
caster’s spell DC or class DC for their
spell DC, and that number – 10
for spell attack rolls.
GEAR AND COMPANIONS
When you enter a psychic duel, psychic
echoes of your gear travel with
you. An eidolon, familiar, animal
companion, or the like typically
appears as a psychic echo based on
your perception of it. However, the
GM might determine a particularly intelligent companion
joins its own mind into the psychic duel.
Movement and Location
Changing location is usually easy within a psychic duel, as
a participant can move at the speed of thought. It typically
takes only a single action to move to any location the
participant wants and range of attacks and spells rarely
matter much. You can usually run a psychic duel without
a grid. Functions of positioning and movement still matter,
but have a more flexible appearance. For instance, a
participant can Hide, but this likely means shaping the
imaginary environment around them to create a visual
screen, glowing phenomenon, or even psychic static.
Likewise, spells that immobilize or grab a creature can
prevent the easy movement detailed above.
BINARY MINDSCAPE STATISTICS
Psychic duels take place in a binary mindscape,
which is much like a very simple plane or
dimension. The stat block for a binary mindscape
is as follows and uses planar traits (Gamemastery
Guide 136).
BINARY MINDSCAPE
MINDSCAPE
FINITE
METAMORPHIC
SUBJECTIVE GRAVITY
A binary mindscape is formed of only two linked
minds and most often created to provide the arena
for a psychic duel. It’s typically simple in structure,
with basic details that become even more indistinct
at the edges of the duelists’ imaginations.
The alignment and time traits typically match
those of the plane on which the participants’ forms
are. A participant with particularly strong psychic
abilities might be able to warp the alignment to their
own or adjust the time trait (typically to timeless). In
a voluntary duel, adjustments like these need to be
agreed upon by all participants.
202
202
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
21551748
21551748
21551748
35
3
435743
435743
