paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
21551638
21551638
21551638
35633
435633
435633
The Empty Vale
Incident Location: [Redacted] Village, Avin Prefecture,
Taldor, Avistan
Incident Type: Hiatus
Reporting Archivist: Rhine Laufent
Day 1
Day 1
The people here are scatterbrained, to put it kindly, prone to
déjà vu. Investigations into water supply, air quality, miasma,
and other possible environmental sources turned up nothing
unusual. Checks for local cryptids, ancient ruins, and magical
artifacts are thus far negative on all fronts.
Day 2
Day 2
This village seems entirely unremarkable.
There was little reason for me, as the sole
archivist sent to this location, to select
an inn room spacious enough to
house two—not when nearly every
other room remains available.
As proficient an archivist as I
may be, it still seems careless to
breach the Dyad Protocol, even
on a case as inconsequential
as this. Perhaps the inanity
of the village occupants
is transmissible.
Day 4
Day 4
It has been a few days since my last
entry. I was told upon arriving the bread is baked daily
here, but the loaf I was given almost shattered my teeth.
When I filed complaints to the innkeeper she seemed lost,
claiming none in the inn even knew how to bake bread. An
odd occurrence, to be sure, but one that would not pique my
interest were it not in line with an emerging pattern of
other seemingly trivial abnormalities. All the luggage and
supplies for the expedition are in my room on the second
floor, but none claim to have carried it. The damnable lot is
far too heavy for me to have done it alone.
Furthermore, a scant few belongings located in my
effects undeniably don’t trace their origin to me. A handful
of incense sticks—I’m not a religious woman—and a small
silver necklace, a frivolous trinket of no use to me. Perhaps
unrelated but vexing, so I will make a point to make note:
I found at least one of my spell tomes marred by coffee
stains. While I recall riding the carriage here, I, for the life
of me, can’t remember booking nor boarding it. I usually
leave such matters to... someone? Something? Odd.
Day 9
Day 9
A more thorough investigation of the residents has revealed
many are experiencing the same lapses in memory as I.
It has become evident I wasn’t the sole archivist assigned
to investigating this village. I feel out of balance; an
uncharacteristic hollowness drags in my chest and a
haziness clouds my usual sagacity. Attempts to rationalize
the unaccounted for memories lead my mind down strange
paths or invoke the sudden affliction of terrible headaches.
In return, I find my physical investigation proceeding more
certainly than before, as if my hand were guided by
another’s, as if a voice were speaking to me from a corner
I can’t turn my head to see.
Were I to posit my own theory, it’s possible this village
harbors an anomalous tear in the fabric of reality; if one
were to wander too close, they would
inexorably “fall out” of existence.
Yet I feel compelled to continue
the investigation.
Day ?
Day ?
I’m unclear how much time has truly
passed since my arrival. The origin
of my escalating exasperation
appears to be a bewildering
phenomenon, a rift between realities,
as I previously surmised. Theoretically,
it erases evidence of its own existence,
existing only for brief moments. Entities
and objects can pass through this rift
into nonexistence—at which point, reality
reconstructs over what’s missing, like scar tissue
over a wound. I’m writing this, taking care to frame my
mind in the space of what might be happening, lest my
words become entangled in this accursed causality. If these
lines return blank, there is something terribly awry.
Upon my return, I will request a formal inquiry into
the Archive’s records to cross-reference this event, and,
perhaps, to locate any potentially erroneous or otherwise
inconsistent associated documentation.
Signed,
Archivist Rhine Laufent
EMPTY WHISPERS
BACKGROUND
RARE
You knew someone once, and now you know only a life stitched
together and healed over, nary even a scar remaining. You hear
voices of souls that have fallen through the cracks of reality,
creatures who have been removed from memory, banished
planar entities, and similar. Their whispers guide you.
Choose two ability boosts. One must be to Intelligence or
Wisdom, and one is a free ability boost.
You’re trained in the Occultism skill and the Planar Rift Lore
skill. You get a Planar Rift Lore check to sense planar rifts, even
if you aren’t specifically Investigating or Searching for them,
as well as locations where magic has been used to remove the
memory of an object or creature from existence.
[Subject Unknown]
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
21551638
21551638
21551638
35633
435633
435633
