paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
21551722
21551722
21551722
35
435717
435717
Land of Second Souls
Incident Location: Raven’s Call, Tomalán, Arcadia
Incident Type: Ouroboros
Reporting Archivist: Julien Imkaros
I left Xopatl and traveled south for some time, eventually
reaching the nation of Tomala'n. The border town of Raven’s
Call seemed like any other Arcadian town I have seen:
the people were kind, the architecture
practical, oddly comforting in its
familiarity. It was only when I spoke
with the locals I truly understood the reason for
your request.
I asked a local woman walking with a young boy
about the town. Yulana and Idelgo answered graciously,
each sharing information in equal parts.
My questions ventured into the history of
Raven’s Call, and Yulana
stated her grandfather
could better answer. I
expected to follow her to
find the elder, but the
young boy began to speak.
His words were eloquent
and there was wisdom
behind his eyes. I was
startled—almost terrified!—thinking
the man was cursed to live his final days as a child. My
shock and confusion must have been apparent, as the two
quickly apologized and explained the situation.
Idelgo was indeed Yulana’s grandfather. He passed
away over two decades ago. Idelgo explained he was born
again from the Tree of Rebirth in central Tomala'n. A
kind family cared for him until he was able to speak
and requested to be brought back to Raven’s Call. The
newly young Idelgo was reunited with Yulana about six
years ago.
The two kindly shared more information about the
southern reaches of Arcadia and their unique relationship
with the afterlife. Everyone who dies has a second
chance, not unlike the lives samsarans lead. Rather
than an endless wheel of reincarnation, however, the people
of these lands have only the one extra opportunity. Once
someone dies a second time, they seem to move on as
anyone else would.
It’s not as simple as waking up and continuing on. The
Tree of Rebirth constantly drips blood from its flowers,
which locals collect in large containers. After some time,
an infant swims to a vat’s surface, crying for assistance.
This is how Idelgo was born again. Local families and
orphanages raise these children until they’re old enough to
recount their past life. The locals then reunite the children
with their families or help them set up new lives elsewhere
if they prefer.
This is just one way to be reborn here. Sometimes one
returns as a ghost with all their faculties, fading
away some decades later. Other times,
a person wakes up and continues
their life, reaching ages in the
hundreds or even thousands
of years. After she died,
Idelgo’s wife simply walked
into the village one day, already a
young woman. There seems to be
no exact science or pattern for
these rebirths.
I considered the possibility
that the region is blasphemous, but
I’ve been told psychopomps frequent the
area, keeping an eye on things, as if Pharasma is
maintaining death here. So far, the psychopomps
have done nothing to alter the rebirth cycle here, so
I must assume the Lady of Graves has no misgivings
with the situation.
This is what I’ve learned so far. I will continue to explore
more of the region and send additional reports. While I’m
upset at your contacting me, I have to admit you were
right. This region is definitely worth investigating further.
REBORN SOUL
BACKGROUND
RARE
You were given a second opportunity at life by mysterious
forces in the Lands of Second Souls. You remember your
life before your death and now live with an extra lifetime
of knowledge.
Choose two ability boosts. One must be to Constitution or
Intelligence, and one is a free ability boost.
You become trained in two Lore skills, which you and your
GM choose from Lore skills associated with your past life. At
3rd level, 7th level, and 15th level, you receive skill increases,
which you can apply only to these Lore skills. In certain
situations analogous to your past life, fragments of memories
resurface, potentially helping or distracting you. The GM can
offer you a +1 circumstance bonus on skill checks with either
of these Lore skills or on other skill checks that echo your past
life. If you accept but fail the check, you’re stupefied 1 for 1
minute by the mental distraction of your past-life memories,
or stupefied 2 for 1 minute on a critical failure.
Flower of Tomalán
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
21551722
21551722
21551722
35
435717
435717
