paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
21551556
21551556
21551556
3555
435551
435551
Class Features
You gain these abilities as a psychic. Abilities gained at
higher levels list the level at which you gain them next to
the features’ names.
ANCESTRY AND BACKGROUND
In addition to what you get from your class at 1st
level, you have the benefits of your selected ancestry
and background.
INITIAL PROFICIENCIES
At 1st level, you gain a number of proficiencies that
represent your basic training. These proficiencies are
noted at the start of this class.
PSYCHIC SPELLCASTING
You access the vast well of power that resides within your
own mind, calling forth psychic magic with nothing but
thought and will. You can cast occult spells using the
Cast a Spell activity. You alter some of the standard spell
components when casting spells you know from your
psychic spellcasting. Instead of speaking, you substitute
any verbal components with a special mental component
determined by your subconscious mind class feature. This
represents how you exert your mind toward your intended
effect. Any of these components impart the concentrate
trait to the spell you’re casting. You also substitute any
material components with somatic components, though
these tend to be simple movements of the hand or head
compared to those used by other spellcasters. Your
spells still have clear and noticeable visual and auditory
manifestations, as normal for a spellcaster.
Each day, you can cast one 1st-level spell. You must
know spells to cast them, and you learn them via the spell
repertoire class feature. The number of spells you can cast
each day is called your spell slots.
As you increase in level as a psychic, your number of spells
per day increases, as does the highest level of spells you can
cast, as shown on Table 2: Psychic Spells per Day.
Some of your spells require you to attempt a spell
attack roll to see how effective they are, or have your
enemies roll against your spell DC (typically by attempting
a saving throw). Since your key ability is determined by
your subconscious mind, your spell attack rolls and
spell DCs use the modifier for the ability stated in your
subconscious mind.
Heightening Spells
When you get spell slots of 2nd level and higher, you can
fill those slots with stronger versions of lower-level spells.
This increases the spell’s level to match the spell slot. You
must have a spell in your spell repertoire at the level you
want to cast to heighten it to that level. Many spells have
specific improvements when heightened to certain levels.
The signature spells class feature lets you heighten certain
spells freely.
Cantrips
Some of your spells are cantrips. A cantrip is a special
type of spell that doesn’t use spell slots. You can cast a
cantrip at will, any number of times per day. A cantrip is
automatically heightened to half your level rounded up—
this is usually equal to the highest level of psychic spell
slot you have. For example, as a 1st-level psychic, your
cantrips are 1st-level spells, and as a 5th-level psychic,
your cantrips are 3rd-level spells.
As a psychic, you get the ability to improve some of
your cantrips with special benefits and psi amps. Over the
course of your career, your choice of conscious mind class
feature gives you extra cantrips, benefits and psi amps for
cantrips, and a collection of unique psi cantrips.
SPELL REPERTOIRE
The collection of spells you can cast is called your spell
repertoire. At 1st level, you learn one 1st-level occult spell
of your choice and three occult cantrips of your choice.
You choose these from the common spells from the occult
list or from other occult spells to which you have access.
You can cast any spell in your spell repertoire by using
a spell slot of an appropriate spell level. Your choice of
conscious mind also grants you additional spells in your
repertoire, starting with an additional 1st-level spell and
two cantrips listed in your conscious mind, which you
cast as psi cantrips (see below).
You add to this spell repertoire as you increase in
level. Each time you get a spell slot (see Table 2), you
add a spell to your spell repertoire of the same level.
At 2nd level, you select another 1st-level spell; at 3rd
level, you select one 2nd-level spell, and so on. When
you add spells, you might add a higher-level version of
a spell you already have, so you can cast a heightened
version of that spell. Your conscious mind also adds
additional spells to your repertoire as you gain spells
of higher levels.
Though you gain them at the same rate, your spell slots
and the spells in your spell repertoire are separate. If a
feat or other ability adds a spell to your spell repertoire,
such as the spells you gain from your conscious mind, it
wouldn’t give you another spell slot, and vice versa.
Swapping Spells in Your Repertoire
As you gain new spells in your repertoire, you might want
to replace some of the spells you previously learned. Each
time you gain a level and learn new spells, you can swap
out one of your old spells for a different spell of the same
level. This spell can be a cantrip. You can also swap out
spells by retraining during downtime.
PSI CANTRIPS AND AMPS
The magic of your mind manifests as psi cantrips, which
you can modify by spending Focus Points. Like other
cantrips, you can cast psi cantrips as often as you like,
and they are automatically heightened to half your
1010
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
21551556
21551556
21551556
3555
435551
435551
