paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
21551686
21551686
21551686
3568
435681
435681
Living Vessel
(Archetype)
With the dawning of a new era comes the need for a
new seat of power, and what better way to show your
coming master your devotion than by sacrificing your
entire being for their use? You presented yourself before
their altar and they answered your call, flooding your
body with their power and granting you the gift of their
original form. Or maybe you were abducted in the dark,
on a night that the moon refused to shine, when you
were taken to a profane location where a mysterious
cult bound you to their master against your will. Now
you have powers you didn’t before and you have new
features that scare (and maybe, in a small dark part of
your heart, thrill) you.
You might have even become a living vessel through
a strange bargain. For instance, perhaps at the brink of
death, you received an offer from an entity to spare your
life in exchange for inhabiting you. Or you might have
offered yourself to the entity in exchange for saving a
loved one, for riches, or to fulfill a lifelong dream.
Beings of any alignment can inhabit a living vessel.
Evil-aligned beings, especially demons, are most likely
to be interested in such an arrangement, especially if it
involves forcefully taking over and changing the body
and mind of a sapient being. Part of being a living vessel
is learning more about your entity and finding what
assuages them best and what their ultimate plans might
be for your body and the world. Few vessels can fully
dictate the terms of the arrangement, but the fact that
you give the entity a corporeal form does give you some
amount of leverage. Use it wisely.
Additional Feats: Your GM might determine that you
can take a pact feat from the pactbinder archetype (page
166) as an additional feat, as long as the pact is made
to the entity within you. For instance, if you’re hosting
a fey, you could make a pact involving fey. These pact
feats are at the same level as for a pactbinder.
LIVING VESSEL DEDICATION
FEAT 2
RARE
ARCHETYPE
DEDICATION
Whether willingly or not, you’ve become a vessel for a
being of unimaginable power. You and your GM should work
together to determine the being’s nature and decide how
much you know and how much remains a mystery to you
for now. Some decisions might influence your options later.
You might need to decide whether the entity is a demon, for
instance, to know if you qualify for later feats.
You need to spend at least an hour each day assuaging the
entity within you or you take a –1 penalty to Will saves for
24 hours. The process of assuaging the entity is determined
together between you and the GM. It might be as simple as
meditating with the entity to learn more about them, but it
might be as extreme as committing gruesome, unspeakable
sacrifices to keep their unknowable blessings. After a full
week of failing to assuage your entity, you become doomed 1,
and you can’t remove or ameliorate the condition until you
allow your entity to take full possession of your body for 24
hours, during which time it pursues its own agenda.
You also gain the Entity’s Resurgence reaction, allowing
you to unleash your entity in lieu of falling unconscious,
though at the risk of letting it enact its will.
Entity’s Resurgence [reaction] Trigger You would be reduced to 0
Hit Points but not immediately killed; Effect Instead of
letting you fall unconscious, your entity takes control.
You remain at 1 Hit Point and gain temporary Hit Points
equal to your level + your key ability modifier that last for
1 minute. However, the entity is in control for 1 minute or
until you fall unconscious, whichever comes first.
While the entity is in control, you gain a +1 status
bonus to attack rolls and damage rolls, and the GM usually
controls your character, roleplaying the entity. The GM
might decide to have you roleplay the entity instead,
but they retain final say over any decisions you make.
No matter the entity’s nature, the entity is sure to wreak
vengeance upon the foe who jeopardized the life of their
vessel—even an evil entity won’t change allegiances or
ignore danger except in the most extreme circumstances.
Special You can’t select another dedication feat until you’ve
gained two other feats from the living vessel archetype.
ENTITY’S STRIKE
FEAT 4
ARCHETYPE
Prerequisites Living Vessel Dedication
The more you try to force your body to stay yours, the
more it warps to channel the energy flowing through you.
Whether you grow horns to match the wild hunt fey within
you, develop a claw like that of the treachery demon sharing
your soul, or feel a tentacle rip out of you from the outer
being that imprinted itself on your psyche, the entity within
you refuses to be contained. You gain an unarmed attack of
your choice with its type determined by your entity. It deals
1d6 damage of a damage type appropriate for the unarmed
attack (such as bludgeoning for the tentacle). This unarmed
attack is in the brawling weapon group and has the agile,
finesse, and magical traits.
TAP VITALITY [one-action]
FEAT 6
ARCHETYPE
CONCENTRATE
HEALING
NECROMANCY
POSITIVE
Prerequisites Living Vessel Dedication
Frequency once per hour
You tap into the entity’s life force to heal your wounds,
though at the cost of the entity’s personality bleeding into
your own. You recover a number of Hit Points equal to four
times your level. Each time you use Tap Vitality, you begin to
bleed more and more of the entity’s personality and instincts
into your own until the next time you spend an hour or more
assuaging the entity, bringing your mind back under your
own control.
Special This action has the tradition trait appropriate
to your entity, typically divine for a demon, occult for an
aberration or outer entity, or primal for a fey.
140
140
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
21551686
21551686
21551686
3568
435681
435681
