paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
21551559
21551559
21551559
3555
435554
435554
Introduction
The
Archivist’s
Training
Manual
Psychic Class
Thaumaturge
Class
Psychic
Archetype
Thaumaturge
Archetype
The Stolen
Casefiles
Spell &
Item Lists,
Glossary &
Index
Dark
Archive
KEY TERMS
You’ll see the following key terms in many psychic
class features.
Amp: Amps are special thoughtforms that modify
the properties of your psi cantrips. You can apply an
amp only to a psi cantrip, which is called the amped
cantrip. Applying an amp to a psi cantrip costs 1
Focus Point and is part of the actions needed to Cast
the Spell. The singular focus required to amp a psi
cantrip means that unless otherwise noted, you can
apply only one amp to a given psi cantrip, and you
can’t apply both an amp and a metamagic ability
to a cantrip at the same time. If both an amp and
the amped cantrip deal damage of the same type,
combine their damage for the purpose of resistances
and weaknesses. Feats with the amp trait provide
different amps you can apply to psi cantrips in place
of their normal amps. If an amp has its own effect, its
level is the same as the amped cantrip’s.
Amp Heightened: Many amps have heightened
entries similar to spells. Add the amp’s heightened
effects when you cast the cantrip at that level or
higher. These are in addition to any heightened
effects of the cantrip, though some adjust the
cantrip’s normal heightened entry (typically in the
case of damage increases).
Mindshift: An action with this trait can always be
altered to use the raw power of your mind. When
you take this action, you can choose to replace any
damage it deals with mental damage, give it the
mental trait, and replace any save it requires with
a Will save. The action loses any traits matching
damage types it no longer deals.
Psyche: Your psyche must be unleashed to use
abilities that have the psyche trait, and they end
automatically when your unleashed psyche subsides.
Emotional Acceptance (Cha, page 15): Throwing
yourself headlong into your emotions is what lets you
access your power.
Gathered Lore (Int, page 15): Tutors taught you specific
axioms and lessons to help you harness your mind.
Precise Discipline (Int, page 16): Meticulously aligning
your thoughts brings your mental power into reality.
Wandering Reverie (Cha, page 16): Your imagination
fuels your magic through instinct and free association.
CONSCIOUS MIND
Whatever the subconscious source of a psychic’s power,
all find that a specific external manifestation of their
magic comes most easily to them. This conscious outward
expression adds several additional spells to your spell
repertoire and grants you three psi cantrips. Two of these
cantrips are common spells, though you gain an extra
benefit with them that other spellcasters don’t get, and
the last is unique to your conscious mind. You also get
two more unique psi cantrips at higher levels. Choose a
conscious mind from the options starting on page 16, or
options from other sources to which you have access.
The following options are presented in this book.
The Distant Grasp (page 16): Manipulate physical
objects with telekinesis.
The Infinite Eye (page 18): Observe the world and
weaponize your knowledge.
The Oscillating Wave (page 19): Redistribute thermal
energy to create blazing heat and bone-chilling cold.
The Silent Whisper (page 20): Tap into the thoughts of
those around you to soothe or influence.
The Tangible Dream (page 21): Weave your imagination
into creations of force and light.
The Unbound Step (page 23): Bend and traverse space
with teleportation and phasing.
PSYCHIC FEATS
2ND
At 2nd level and every even-numbered level, you gain a
psychic class feat.
SKILL FEATS
2ND
At 2nd level and every 2 levels thereafter, you gain a skill
feat. You must be trained or better in the corresponding
skill to select a skill feat.
GENERAL FEATS
3RD
At 3rd level and every 4 levels thereafter, you gain a
general feat.
SIGNATURE SPELLS
3RD
You’ve learned to cast some of your spells more flexibly.
For each spell level you have access to, choose one spell
of that level to be a signature spell. You don’t need to
learn heightened versions of signature spells separately;
instead, you can heighten these spells freely. If you’ve
learned a signature spell at a higher level than its
minimum, you can also cast all its lower-level versions
without learning those separately. If you swap out a
signature spell, you can choose a replacement signature
spell of the same spell level at which you learned the
previous spell. You can also retrain specifically to change
a signature spell to a different spell of that level without
swapping any spells; this takes as much time as retraining
a spell normally does.
SKILL INCREASES
3RD
At 3rd level and every 2 levels thereafter, you gain a
skill increase. You can use this increase to either become
trained in one skill you’re untrained in, or become an
expert in one skill in which you’re already trained.
At 7th level, you can use skill increases to become a
master in a skill in which you’re already an expert, and
at 15th level, you can use them to become legendary in
a skill in which you’re already a master.
1313
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
21551559
21551559
21551559
3555
435554
435554
