paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
21551708
21551708
21551708
35 03
435703
435703
These curses mostly follow the rules from pages 116–
117 of the Pathfinder Gamemastery Guide, but they
also include a tempted version of the curse, which
usually grants greater power... at a steeper price. A PC
can activate the tempted version of the curse as a free
action, which has the concentrate trait. While active, the
tempted version of the curse affects the target instead of
the ongoing effect. The tempted version is active until
the target next makes their daily preparations, at which
time the curse returns to its ongoing effect and the PC
can attempt a new saving throw to remove the curse.
Activating the tempted version increases the save DC of
the curse by 1. This increase is permanent and cumulative
for each time the target activates the tempted version.
THIEF’S BURDEN
CURSE 1
RARE
CURSE
MAGICAL
TRANSMUTATION
This ward placed on valuables aims to bog down thieves and
prevent them from fleeing.
Saving Throw DC 15 Fortitude; Effect This curse causes stolen
items to weigh you down. While the curse is in effect, you
treat any stolen items you carry as 1 Bulk heavier. This
increase in Bulk remains in effect until the curse is lifted or
the item is returned to its owner.
Tempted Curse Your pockets weigh you down as you dream
of filling them with riches. You are encumbered, but you
double your total maximum carrying capacity.
UNRAVELING SKIN
CURSE 5
RARE
CURSE
MAGICAL
NECROMANCY
Often used to protect ancient tomes, this curse causes your
skin to shed like weathered paper, cracking and bleeding at
the slightest touch.
Saving Throw DC 20 Fortitude; Effect Seeping wounds cover
your body as this curse makes your skin brittle. Any time
you would gain the wounded condition, increase the value
by 1. Any time you take bleed damage, increase the amount
of damage by 1.
Tempted Curse Your skin falls from your body and exposes your
raw flesh beneath, but the curse holds your flesh together as
its magic increases. You gain resistance to persistent bleed
damage equal to half your level and are doomed 1.
BOASTFUL PRINCE’S SCOURGE
CURSE 7
RARE
CURSE
MAGICAL
POLYMORPH
TRANSMUTATION
Used as a punishment against the vain or the arrogant, this
curse slowly transforms you into a frog in note just body, but
mind as well.
Saving Throw DC 23 Will; Effect Your features slowly morph
into that of a frog’s as you grow a prominent vocal sac. You
gain the amphibious trait and can breathe both air and water.
You are stupefied 1 as long as you are under the effect of this
curse, and you can’t reduce your stupefied value below 1.
Tempted Curse You transform fully, as animal form, giving you
the specific abilities of a frog. The duration of this casting
is until you make your daily preparations, and you can’t
Dismiss the spell. While you are under the effect of animal
form due to this curse, you have all the usual limitations of
animal form, including the fact that you can’t speak (though
you can still understand any languages you know).
SINFUL TONGUE
CURSE 7
RARE
CURSE
ENCHANTMENT
MAGICAL
MENTAL
This curse is typically used as punishment by good clergy.
The curse causes you to envision your wrongdoings
whenever you attempt to lie or deceive, a burden that can be
cured only by confessing your past transgressions.
Saving Throw DC 23 Will; Effect (misfortune) The weight of
guilt distracts you, making it hard for you to deceive people.
Whenever you attempt a Deception check, roll the check
twice and take the worse result.
Tempted Curse You begin to confess your sins, beginning from
youthful indiscretions and ending with the present day.
While you confess, all creatures within 30 feet must succeed
at a DC 23 Will save or gain the fascinated condition as they
listen. You must spend at least 2 actions per round, which
have the concentrate trait, listing your wrongdoings. This is
an auditory, enchantment, emotion, and mental effect. Once
you stop confessing your sins, or after 10 minutes if you
haven’t finished confessing your sins, the effect ends, and
you can’t confess again until your next daily preparations.
Your conscience is clearer having confessed, and you take
only a –2 status penalty to Deception checks.
SWARMING WORDS
CURSE 9
RARE
CONJURATION
CURSE
MAGICAL
Placed upon those who use magic to cause harm, this curse
causes a shower of bugs to fall from your lips whenever you
speak, foiling your spellcasting.
Saving Throw DC 26 Fortitude; Effect The crawling within
your mouth never stops as cockroaches, ants, and other
insects nest in your body. Whenever you attempt to Cast a
Spell with a verbal component or otherwise use an activity
that has the auditory trait, you must attempt a DC 5 flat
check. On a failure, the insects counteract your activity as
they crowd your mouth and muffle the sound.
TEMPTING CURSES
There is a cruel logic to most curses, which torment their victims in ways that speak to their misdeeds. Each curse
becomes a cautionary tale of the price of bad behavior returned threefold. The thief’s pockets sag under the weight
of stolen goods. The stench of death follows the grave robber. However, not all curses start with a punishment; some
present a tempting offer instead, promising power in exchange for an ever-tightening hold, eventually making the
curse irresistible.
162
162
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
21551708
21551708
21551708
35 03
435703
435703
