paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
21551701
21551701
21551701
35696
435696
435696
The Wood Pile
Incident Location: “The Cradle,” [redacted], Garund
Incident Type: Nexus
Reporting Archivist: Guyani Kellu
I’ve never had quite as fitful or fruitful a respite as my sleep
a fortnight ago. I had traveled from my estate in Kibwe in
search of a small conrasu enclave known as the Cradle.
I’d heard the Cradle was a small group that repaired and
upgraded the exoskeletons that house our cosmic brethren.
What I wanted from the enclave was confirmation of the so-
called “Wood Pile,”a large pile of conrasu exoskeleton scrap.
Though many believe it to be a simple refuse pile, conrasus
are sparks of planar consciousness, and just as a flower can
absorb iron in the soil to turn burnt red, so have many of
these cast-offs absorbed what I refer to as “Aeonic Essence.”
I wasn’t prepared for where it took me. (Can those who
explore the unknown ever truly be prepared?) The enclave
was surprisingly close to [redacted], but the route was
deeply inconvenient. I traveled through foothills and deep
forest and tunnels, finally arriving at an idyllic forest with
giant trees stretching their arms to the sky.
I saw even fewer conrasus when I arrived than I expected.
That said, I was greeted by an affable young conrasu named
Wane. Wane’s exoskeleton at first seemed to be a rolling
wooden ball, but when they needed to reach something, a
wooden arm would telescope out to grab it and legs extended
underneath them the few times they required height.
Wane described the Cradle to me as a place where
conrasus could come to evolve their minds and bodies. They
gave me the tour, showing me a few stations where conrasus
worked on sculpting and shaping other conrasu bodies.
By the time I got around to asking where the Wood Pile
was, Wane extended an arm to my right
and showed me we were already there.
The Wood Pile had an enormous pile of
vines, logs, and discarded wooden limbs.
It towered to half the height of the trees.
While I felt a certain sense of awe, I
didn’t detect a strong magical aura;
I expected a bonfire of planar energy
but found only a trickling stream.
That’s when I fell asleep.
I shouldn’t say fell asleep, because
that isn’t quite right—I walked over
to the Wood Pile’s base and somehow
decided to lay down on it. Midday naps
are not something I engage in and I
didn’t feel tired even moments before. The
compulsion was subtle yet undeniably powerful.
I slept.
I woke up and it was nighttime. The Cradle was buzzing
with activity. The silhouettes of conrasus of all shapes and
compositions swarmed around. I tried to call out and get
someone’s attention but soon realized no one noticed me. I
saw the silhouettes ducking, leaping, and rolling away from
invisible dangers I couldn’t see.
Then I saw my silhouette. It was walking quite innocently
away from me. Suddenly, it dove to the side and rolled up
to its feet. It looked behind, then ran.
I woke up again. It appeared to be shortly after I had
fallen asleep this time. I looked in my hand and discovered
there was light blue coin in it. None of the conrasus at the
Cradle could tell me anything about it but all insisted I
take it with me as a souvenir, so I did.
I thought little of it until on my way back. I was walking
along a river when something burst from the water. Before I
could move, I saw a flash of my silhouette diving to the side and
before I had even thought, I was mid-dive. I rolled and rose to
my feet. I looked back and saw a ravenous zinba snake spring
from the water. Not wanting to be a snack, I ran!
It appears the coin was consumed in that encounter, but
I’ll happily trade it for my life.
CONRASU COIN
ITEM 3+
UNCOMMON
CONSUMABLE
MAGICAL
TALISMAN
Usage affixed to armor; Bulk —
Activate [free-action] envision; Trigger varies, see entry
These wooden discs sometimes form spontaneously at the
Wood Pile, a secret conrasu location suffused with extraplanar
energy. A conrasu coin can be activated to call upon the power
of a specific type of aeon.
Type arbiter; Level 3; Price 7 gp; Trigger You attempt a
Diplomacy check to Make an Impression.
This coin has small wings like an arbiter, the messenger and
diplomat aeon. When you activate the coin, you gain
a +2 circumstance bonus on the Diplomacy check,
which increases to a +3 circumstance bonus to Make
an Impression on a lawful creature.
Type bythos; Level 10; Price 200 gp; Trigger You’re
targeted with an attack but the opponent hasn’t
rolled yet.
This cog-like coin bears an hourglass on one
side and the four-armed silhouette of a
bythos—aeons that steward over time—on
the other. When activated, you catch a
glimpse of your body moving on one
of its potential timelines in response
to danger and you follow those
movements to dodge. You gain a +2
circumstance bonus to AC against the
attack, and after resolving the attack,
you can Stride up to 10 feet without
triggering reactions. If you have the
Nimble Roll feat and the attack misses,
you can Stride up to 20 feet instead.
Wane & Coin
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
21551701
21551701
21551701
35696
435696
435696
