paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
21551692
21551692
21551692
3568
435687
435687
It’s difficult to cast this ritual unless the target is willing
or restrained. If the creature is unwilling to accept the ritual,
it can attempt a Will save to negate the effect. The effects
of the ritual depend on the results of your Occultism check.
Critical Success The ritual removes all memories of the cult’s
activity, practices, and secrets from the target’s memory.
The target remembers only what an average citizen of the
larger society would know, which is typically nothing or
a few rumors with very little detail. The spell is hard to
detect: a detect magic spell or similar effect must be a
higher level than oblivious expulsion to detect it.
You can Dismiss the spell. While casting the spell, you
can choose to give the secondary casters the ability to
Dismiss it. You can also choose to set a key phrase or event
that causes the spell to be Dismissed. When the target
witnesses this phrase or event, the spell immediately ends.
Success As critical success, except the spell isn’t harder to
detect with detect magic.
Failure The ritual fails.
Critical Failure The ritual fails, and the target is temporarily
immune for 1 month.
RECALL PAST LIFE
RITUAL 4
RARE
NECROMANCY
Cast 3 days; Cost 100 gp in special wine and symbolic herbs;
Secondary Casters 2
Primary Check Occultism (master) or Religion (master);
Secondary Checks Crafting
Target the secondary caster who doesn’t perform the
Crafting check
Duration 1 day
You and the secondary casters spend 2 days drawing sigils
on one another. At the end of the second day, the secondary
caster responsible for the Crafting check carefully mixes the
wine with the herbs and a small amount of saliva or blood
from the target. The target then drinks the concoction,
entering a state of metaphorical death and rebirth, their body
becoming comatose for the final day of the ritual. During this
time, you and the other secondary caster bathe the body
in dirt, symbolizing a grave, and sprinkle the remainder of
the wine around the body. If done properly, swaddled baby
orchids grow around the area, enveloping the body in a bed
of flowers.
On the final hour, the target returns to life, waking up
temporarily possessed by an incarnation from one of their
past lives. Though they retain the memories from their
current life, their demeanor and personality are different for
the remaining duration of the ritual, and they also remember
vivid details from their past life. Unfortunately, it’s impossible
to choose a particular past self or to know whether a given
former incarnation has good or bad intentions.
Critical Success The target’s personality reverts to a previous
incarnation, determined by the GM. Normally they keep
their abilities, but in rare cases, the GM might determine
that the past incarnation has a different set of abilities
based on their previous life. The lingering knowledge of
the past incarnation is powerful and sticks with the target,
allowing them to retrain one of their skills increases into
a skill in which the past incarnation was particularly
talented; the list of possible skills depends on the nature
of the past incarnation and is determined by the GM.
Success As critical success, except there’s no lingering
knowledge, and the target isn’t able to retrain a skill
increase.
Failure Nothing happens, though the target’s unconscious
state is disturbing, and they wake up fatigued as well as
likely hungry and thirsty.
Critical Failure The sigils are drawn improperly, or the wine
was tainted. The swaddled baby orchids that grow around
the body scream at the moment when the target would’ve
awakened. The target dies and immediately animates as
a malevolent zombie that carries the rot with them and
seeks to destroy their former allies. Use the statistics for a
husk zombie (Book of the Dead 170), or another zombie as
appropriate for the target’s ancestry.
SUPREME CONNECTION
RITUAL 7
UNCOMMON
DIVINATION
Cast 1 day; Cost rare perfume worth 250 gp; Secondary
Casters 2
Primary Check Occultism (master) or Religion (master);
Secondary Checks Performance
Duration up to 10 minutes
In a show of power, you call forth a powerful entity in front
of a crowd of onlookers, forcing the entity to manifest and
answer your questions. The being appears as a twisted ball
of vines and branches that springs forth from a nearby patch
of dirt or up from between cobblestones or bricks. The ball of
vines is relatively formless, giving no indication of the being
that controls it. However, when you make a request, it twists
into a rough face to answer your request.
You can ask up to seven questions that could be answered
with “yes” or “no,” although the entity can give you any
one working answer it wants, including vague answers like
“likely” or “unknown.” The entity is likely to know answers
related to its nature and priorities. Depending on the entity
you call, it might attempt to deceive you and likely has its
own agenda. The entity can only respond when surrounded
by the energy of a crowd.
Once it has answered your questions, the vines freeze in
place, contorted in pain, a reminder of where the powerful
creature touched this world.
Critical Success The entity is in a good mood or is more
honest than most. It won’t attempt to deceive you, though
it still might not know the answers. When it’s important to
provide clarity, the entity will answer your questions with
up to five words, such as “if you leave immediately” or “that
was true once.” The words of the entity ring with truth, and
the crowd takes the statements as gospel. You gain a +4
circumstance bonus to Diplomacy checks made to influence
the crowd and to any Deception checks to Lie to the crowd
by directly incorporating the entity’s answers.
146
146
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
21551692
21551692
21551692
3568
435687
435687
