paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
21551569
21551569
21551569
3556
435564
435564
Introduction
The
Archivist’s
Training
Manual
Psychic Class
Thaumaturge
Class
Psychic
Archetype
Thaumaturge
Archetype
The Stolen
Casefiles
Spell &
Item Lists,
Glossary &
Index
Dark
Archive
THE UNBOUND STEP
The mind can flit from thought to thought; why too
shouldn’t you? You focus on motion in a higher order of
spatial dimensions, not just the typical three, allowing for
versatile abilities that alter positioning.
Granted Spells 1st: thoughtful gift (Advanced Player’s Guide
226); 2nd: enlarge; 3rd: rally point (page 106); 4th: dimension
door; 5th: strange geometry (Advanced Player’s Guide 226);
6th: collective transposition; 7th: momentary recovery (page
106); 8th: maze; 9th: bilocation (page 104)
Standard Psi Cantrips phase bolt (page 106) and warp step
(page 107)
Unique Psi Cantrips surface: distortion lens; deeper: ghostly
shift; deepest: tesseract tunnel
Phase Bolt
Your phase bolt temporarily sends the target’s cover out of
phase if it hits. On a success, reduce the target’s circumstance
bonus to AC (if any) by 1 until the beginning of your next
turn. Your phase bolt also gains the following amp.
Amp Your bolt leaves phase completely, becoming invisible
and intangible until it’s already embedded in the target—
giving the impression it simply teleported itself into place.
The target is flat-footed against the attack. Additionally, the
bolt ignores an amount of Hardness or resistance to piercing
damage equal to half the spell’s level. On a critical success,
the target can’t be affected by teleportation effects until the
start of your next turn.
Amp Heightened (+1) The bolt’s damage increases by 2d4
instead of 1d4.
Warp Step
You warp space more compactly, granting you a +10-foot
status to your Speed instead of a +5-foot status bonus when
you warp step. The spell also gains the following amp.
Amp Space contracts with hardly a thought, letting you Cast
the Spell as a single action.
Amp Heightened (4th) You twist space so completely you don’t
need to travel the interposing distance. You can choose to
instead teleport to a space within your line of sight and line
of effect with a range equal to your double your Speed (after
applying the status bonus from warp step). This grants the
spell the teleportation trait.
DISTORTION LENS
CANTRIP 1
UNCOMMON
CANTRIP
CONJURATION
PSYCHIC
Cast [one-action] verbal
Range 30 feet; Area one 5-foot square
Duration sustained up to 1 minute
You create a magical lens that distorts space as best suits you.
You create the lens in a space in range, even suspended in midair.
If your or an ally’s ranged attack passes through the lens, the
attack gains an additional 10 feet of range; if an enemy’s ranged
attack would pass through the lens, it requires an additional 10
feet of range to move through, though the enemy knows before
using its ability whether the interference puts the target out
of range. An ally whose space overlaps the lens can increase the
range of its ranged attacks, but an enemy whose space overlaps
the lens doesn’t reduce the range of its ranged attacks.
The first time each round you Sustain the Spell, you can
choose to relocate it to another square within range. The lens
disappears if you cast distortion lens again.
Heightened (+3) The lens increases or decreases the range of
abilities by an additional 5 feet.
Amp The lens can interfere with creatures as well as attacks.
Once during a Medium or smaller ally’s move action, the ally
can move into and out of the lens’s square without that square
counting against the total distance moved. Conversely, the
lens is difficult terrain for your enemies.
GHOSTLY SHIFT
CANTRIP 3
UNCOMMON
CANTRIP
CONJURATION
PSYCHIC
Cast [one-action] verbal
Range 30 feet; Targets 1 creature
Duration sustained up to 1 minute
Your body becomes insubstantial as you partially phase out.
You gain resistance 2 to all damage (except force).
Heightened (+2) The resistance increases by 1.
Amp Your insubstantiality is complete enough that you can pass
through other creatures, causing painful interference effects
when you do so. Once each round when you Stride, Burrow,
Swim, or Fly, you can pass through one creature’s space during
that action without needing to attempt a check to Tumble
Through, though you can’t end your turn in its space. When
you pass through a creature’s space in this way, you deal 2d6
force damage to that creature, with a basic Fortitude save.
Amp Heightened (+2) Increase the damage dealt by phasing
through a creature by 1d6.
TESSERACT TUNNEL
CANTRIP 5
UNCOMMON
CANTRIP
CONJURATION
PSYCHIC
TELEPORTATION
Cast [two-actions] somatic, verbal
Duration sustained up to 1 minute
You race from point to point, tearing open a tunnel in space.
You create a portal in your current space and then Stride,
creating another portal in the space you end your Stride. Until
the beginning of your next turn, any creature that enters the
first portal can immediately transport itself to the exit portal
as part of its move action, which adds the teleportation trait to
its movement.
You can have only one tesseract tunnel open at a time; creating
another causes the first to immediately close. You can use
tesseract tunnel while Burrowing, Climbing, Flying, or Swimming
instead of Striding if you have the corresponding movement type.
Amp Physical movement is no longer necessary to connect two
points in space. When you cast tesseract tunnel, you simply
create a tunnel that ends in a square within a range equal to
your Speed; you can choose to immediately teleport to the
space at the far end of the tunnel. Furthermore, the tunnel
can be traversed in both directions, instead of only from
entrance to exit. Finally, the spell’s duration changes to 1
minute. You can Dismiss the spell.
23
23
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
21551569
21551569
21551569
3556
435564
435564
