paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
21551706
21551706
21551706
35 0
435701
435701
BOOK OF LOST DAYS
ITEM 15
UNIQUE
CURSED
ENCHANTMENT
MAGICAL
Usage held in 2 hands; Bulk 1
This massive tome’s yellowed pages curl at the edges, and the
letters on its face and spine are too worn to be read. When you
open the book, it always opens to a page that seems to perfectly
answer the question you had in mind, but reading more than a
few lines causes your head to swim alarmingly.
Activate
1
hour
(envision,
Interact);
Requirements You aren’t drained; Effect
You open the book while trying to
learn information about any topic.
The Book of Lost Days permits you
to view another’s memory, which
contains information about that
subject commensurate to rolling
a total of 40 to Recall Knowledge
about the topic, with additional
context provided on a success or critical success.
The price for this knowledge is the memory of a day in
your past, and the vitality of a day in your future. You lose
the memory of that day completely, and the total of all the
knowledge you learned on that date is added to the book’s
repository of information. The book, not you, chooses which
memories are taken, preferring days with concentrated
emotional resonance, and thus tends to steal significant life
moments. This loss affects only your memories; it has no
effect on your level, class, feats, or other character choices.
Your natural lifespan is also shortened by 1 day. The loss
of this life energy causes you to be drained 2. You can’t
reduce the drained condition for 2 days, after which you
can recover normally from the condition.
Creatures have occasionally managed to use the Book of
Lost Days not to gain others’ knowledge but to wipe their
minds clean of painful memories or deadly secrets. Their
memories aren’t destroyed but merely stored in the book,
where someone else might later retrieve them.
CALAMITY GLASS
ITEM 11
CURSED
DIVINATION
MAGICAL
SCRYING
Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk L
This mirror appears to give warnings about the future, but
subtle and malevolent hands designed the silver-framed glass
to lure heroes into bringing doom upon those they hope to save.
Activate 1 minute (envision, Interact); Frequency once per
week; Effect You activate the calamity glass and obtain a
vision related to a likely action or event within the next
48 hours. The calamity glass decides what vision to show,
though if you think about a specific event, the vision is
typically at least tangentially related.
No matter what, the mirror shows only tragedies. The
mirror’s visions are accurate but misleading, as they depict
tragedies that could be averted but in so doing might lead
to greater suffering.
For example, a calamity glass might show a family
starving as the result of harbor officials turning away
a boatload of improperly documented grain. Without
intervention, this future will come to pass.
What the mirror didn’t show is the grain was
improperly labeled and carelessly stored,
resulting in its contamination with poisonous
mold capable of killing hundreds. Purifying and
then distributing the grain would avert both the
calamity glass’s vision and the greater suffering
its curse attempted to create.
GIFT OF THE POISONED HEART
ITEM 16
RARE
CONSUMABLE
CURSED
EVIL
MAGICAL
NECROMANCY
Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk –
Activate 1 minute (command, Interact)
Those who fail to see the curse view this object as a priceless
gift, capable of restoring life to the deceased, but deep in the
heart of this diamond lies a single flaw: a fissured occlusion
of sickly, tainted red. To activate the diamond, place it on the
relatively intact body of a creature that died within the past
year. The stone shatters, restoring the recipient to life with
the effects of a successful resurrect ritual, except there is no
limit to the level of the creature that may be revived.
This gift of life comes with a terrible cost: the recipient
believes you—and anyone else who aided in the resurrection—
deliberately caused their death and revived them only in
furtherance of some nefarious scheme. Having a proxy activate
the gift of the poisoned heart is of no use, as the item’s magic
sniffs out all coconspirators and uses your attempt to avoid
the drawback to feed the resurrected creature’s paranoia.
No amount of information or persuasion can alleviate this
mistrust, as the cursed creature twists the facts endlessly
to fit their delusion. Only magic such as remove curse can
neutralize this effect, and the subject resists any attempt to
alter their beliefs by magic.
GOLDEN GOOSE
ITEM 11
CURSED
EVIL
MAGICAL
TRANSMUTATION
Usage held in 2 hands; Bulk L
This life-sized, hollow, golden goose statuette has an open,
fanged mouth and an unsettling aura of hunger. Fiends
sometimes present it as a gift to mortals whose greed makes
them susceptible to temptation. While the golden goose can
be used without malice, those who possess such a thing often
find its glittering lure erodes their morals over time.
CURSED ITEMS
Cursed items are difficult to make and even harder to destroy. These items seem useful, but they always have some
drawback. They often fuse to users, making them difficult to remove. You can find more information about cursed items
on page 90 of the Pathfinder Gamemastery Guide.
160
160
Book of Lost Days
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
21551706
21551706
21551706
35 0
435701
435701
