paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
21551551
21551551
21551551
355 6
435546
435546
Introduction
The
Archivist’s
Training
Manual
The Stolen
Casefiles
Spell &
Item Lists,
Glossary &
Index
Dark
Archive
My future and fellow Archivists,
The Dark Archive is no more, except for me. When the
Pathfinder Society announced that our faction was to be
dissolved, absorbed into its other departments, I grabbed
the files I could and left before they could stop me. These
pages are all that remain of our faction’s records, and I am
all that remains of our membership.
This world of ours is strange, isn’t it? I muse on this
idea more often than I care to admit, vital though it may
be to our work. The most common description of the
Dark Archive is that we “investigate the paranormal” and
that’s... true, but it’s a description by negation. If we are
to turn our gaze to the “paranormal”, first we must ask:
what is normal?
We know a staggering number of things about our world.
We know of its general size and diversity of terrain, as well
as a vast majority of the peoples and creatures that inhabit
it. We know of the void that hangs above it, and that other
worlds, some with peoples and creatures of their own, lie
across that void, or even on other planes of existence. Beyond
even this, consider all the endeavors that have expanded the
normal even further. Consider the fields of alchemy and
the burgeoning craft of clockwork engineering. Consider
the magic that we have split into schools, the meticulous
cataloging of its sources that we have uncovered and
explored. This is all within the boundaries of the normal.
I apologize for being long-winded; I wanted to provide
enough description to, hopefully, plant in you the same
question that drives each of us, that defines our work,
that first brought me, far too many years ago, to the Dark
Archive’s doorstep: what could there possibly be left to find?
This is what we mean by “paranormal.” Though some
might recoil in fear from such unknowns, my hope is that
they excite you. In these casefiles, I’ve done my best to
compile every lead we collected in the course of our efforts
to part the strands of the unknown that keep us from
uncovering the truth as we gaze into the darkness.
The Pathfinder Society’s mandate of our faction’s
dissolution saddens me not on principle, but timing. The
Dark Archive exists to explain the unexplained; my fellow
archivists and I scoured Golarion for testimony, evidence,
and rumors of anything that defied reason, adding it to
our records until solved, at which point it would join the
rest of the knowledge in the Grand Archive. There’s a
world that truly no longer needs a Dark Archive, a world
that has untangled all the threads—but that’s not yet our
world. Our work must continue. We can’t fight what we
don’t understand, can’t protect others from it.
After so much discovery, some seem to think that surely,
there can’t be much left to find. I disagree. With everything
we already know, I counter that anything we’ve yet to
understand could be more subtle and dangerous, more
bizarre and wondrous, than anything encountered thus
far. Each new impossible addition to the normal expands
the potential for the paranormal that remains. When it
comes to the unknown, I rule nothing out—and neither
should you. In darkness lies enlightenment, as we used
to say. Let’s get you up to speed.
First, you’ll find a small bound notebook—this is the
Archivist’s Training Manual, containing the learnings and
wisdom of countless archivists. This is my personal copy,
so I would appreciate it if you treat it with care. Inside
are our findings as to the best tools for uncovering the
paranormal. Those of you with innate abilities may find
our investigations into psychic talents particularly useful.
However, for the otherwise mundane (much like myself),
these pages will teach you how to turn our discoveries to
your thaumaturgic advantage. With the right tools and
insight, anything is possible.
Beyond the manual lie the remnants of our casefiles,
the only ones I could abscond with before my access to
the Pathfinder Society’s records was revoked altogether.
You might notice that eight of them have more exhaustive
notes than the rest; these subjects are what remain of my
personal caseload. Some, I had been investigating for
years, but I have reason to believe that the group itself, as
a whole, is more important than the sum of its parts. The
files have to be connected, in some way. I know it.
I don’t expect these connections to be clear; I myself
have yet to link any of them definitively. Though it’s been
a while since I explained such paths of thought to other
archivists, even at my best, I’m not sure I could describe
it. I can feel the web that weaves between them, even if I
know not how. As I prod at one thread, another tremors
with the impact. Like with all mysteries, every piece
unveiled reveals new questions at its edges.
I know too well how overwhelming this tide can feel.
All archivists know it. All I can tell you is that it passes,
as all things do. Hold fast to your investigations, and to
each other. This work shouldn’t be done alone; I know
this better than most. I’ve done as much as I can on my
own, but an isolated perspective can reveal only so much.
I miss the days of collaborative investigation, the nights of
fruitless brainstorm, the theories shouted out of desperate
whimsy that turned inexplicably true. This, to me, is the
Dark Archive. We need no motto, logo, or funding, so
long as we have archivists. If there are people, somewhere,
anywhere, who believe that every question has an answer
worth finding, then our faction persists.
I may be the Lone Archivist, but I have no intention of
being the last. To that end: may the darkness bring you
enlightenment, as it always does.
Until we meet,
—K.H.W.
Welcome to the Dark Archive
5
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
21551551
21551551
21551551
355 6
435546
435546
