paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
21551710
21551710
21551710
35 05
435705
435705
Each of these bargained contracts offers specific benefits
and drawbacks. While negotiation is part of these
bargains, the entities that offer such deals rarely recognize
the spirit of the agreement—only the written deal is final.
Upon close review, the wording often matches the original
proposal, leaving the mortal to wonder if the bargaining
was just for show.
A bargained contract is a magic item that
has the contract trait. The item has
no physical substance and can’t be
dispelled or altered. Nonetheless,
it comes with a pair of tokens
indicating
the
contract
has
been struck, one held by each
end of the deal. A bargained
contract can only be destroyed
if both tokens are destroyed.
If discarded, lost, or stolen,
a token tends to find its way
back to the being to whom it
belongs. Holding the token
isn’t necessary to receive the
benefits of the contract except
where specifically stated that
the token is part of the activation or
effect. A bargained contract is automatically
invested and counts toward a character’s limit of 10
invested items; part of the cost is that the contract draws
from the holder’s investiture. Entities that offer bargained
contracts can enter into any number without restriction.
Bargained contracts don’t cost money because they
are always part of a contract roleplayed out during the
story and priced in things more meaningful than coin.
Nonetheless, the GM should consider contracts as a story
reward in much the same way as they would other types
of treasure. For instance, if the GM is looking to give out
two 9th-level items, they might have one of those items
be a key to the stomach. In other words, the lack of cost
just means it can’t be bought or sold in stores, not that it
doesn’t count as part of the PCs’ overall treasure.
BOTTOMLESS PURSE
ITEM 8
RARE
CONTRACT
INVESTED
MAGICAL
With a handshake, you traded future wealth for a bottomless
purse of gems and other valuables. Using the purse, you can
always sell items for their normal sell value during downtime,
even if you aren’t anywhere near a settlement. You just put
them into the purse, and within a day, the proper sale price
appears in coins and gems. Once per day, from any distance,
the entity that holds your bargained contract automatically
sells a common consumable item in your possession, giving
you back only half the normal amount for a sold item.
Activate [two-actions] envision, command; Frequency once per day;
Effect You deposit up to 30 gp of gems and coins in a
separate pouch of the bottomless purse while thinking of
a common consumable item costing that amount of money.
You then upend the pouch. The item you envisioned comes
tumbling out into your hand.
CRYOLITE EYE
ITEM 6
RARE
CONTRACT
INVESTED
MAGICAL
You tore your eye from the socket
and offered it to whatever spirit
would take it. In return, you
received a glass eye in its place.
This eye allows you to see as normal,
and when you succeed at a Perception
check against an illusion, you get a
critical success instead. Once per day,
from any distance, the entity that
holds your bargained contract can
overwhelm your cryolite eye with
magical energy, causing images to
float over your vision that inflict the
dazzled condition on you for 1 minute.
Activate [two-actions] command; Frequency once
per day; Effect You look through the glass eye sealing
your bargained contract. The contract casts see invisibility
affecting you.
HAND-HEWED FACE
ITEM 7
RARE
CONTRACT
INVESTED
MAGICAL
At the crossroads under a new moon, you traded your face
for one that you can mold as though it were clay, sealed with
a ribbon worn around your neck to hide the seam. Your true
appearance changes to that of a generic member of your
ancestry. You can shape your facial features with your hands
and thus don’t need a disguise kit to Impersonate, and you
don’t take circumstance penalties to Impersonate someone
due to the difference in your facial features. Once per day, from
any distance, the entity that holds your bargained contract
can change their appearance to match your appearance
from before you sealed the contract, or the appearance you
are currently using through Impersonate. When they do,
your face transforms to your new true appearance, that of a
generic member of your ancestry, and you become stunned 3
by the sudden backlash.
Activate [two-actions] Interact; Requirements You have used
Impersonate and molded your face into a different face;
Effect You peel your current face from your skin, revealing
BARGAINED CONTRACTS
Anyone can have a taste of power—if they’re willing to pay the price for it. These bargained contracts are readily
offered to those who know how to ask. However, fey, spirits of nature, hags, and the otherwise supernaturally inclined
don’t deal in currency as simple as gold.
164
164
Key to the Stomach
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
21551710
21551710
21551710
35 05
435705
435705
