paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
21551723
21551723
21551723
35
8
435718
435718
The Sacral King
Incident Location: Tower of the Forgotten and
surrounding districts, Goka, Tian Xia
Incident Type: Keystone
Reporting Archivist: Krayne
I hate you. I want you to know this, because it took me three
months of trekking over every wretched swamp in Wanshou to
confirm your theory.
Moving on. I went to Goka to recuperate and I heard of
a strange little detail that seems up your alley. There’s an
old man wandering around the Oldport District, a beggar
who claims to be the reincarnation of the Eternal Emperor
of Lung Wa. So what, you’re asking? Well, he’s got half the
district convinced he might be right, or at least going along
with the joke and humoring him. His name is Hao Qian, and
no one seems to know where he came from. About 12 years
ago, Qian stood in front of the temple and announced he was
the reincarnation of the Eternal Emperor, that he’d hidden
his past too long, and henceforth he would conduct the sacred
rites with the dignity due to an emperor.
Lots of people laughed, but ever since, Qian’s been doing
exactly that. These days, he does tours of the temples to perform
the proper rites and sacrifices, he holds audiences with anyone
who wants to see him, and he periodically issues proclamations
or decrees—I think his last one was to declare an embargo on
Po Lian goods until they acknowledge his sovereignty.
I went to see him, and I’ve got to say, the man’s convincing.
He speaks with a perfect court accent, the kind you don’t hear
often, and he’s got a grasp on imperial etiquette that suggests
at the very least he knew somebody at court. Some local tailor
made a set of (cheap) imperial robes for him, and Qian’s
talked a printer into making some “official”Lung Wa paper
currency, which Qian will sign in exchange for actual money.
Part of me thinks Qian has stumbled onto the perfect
scam, but he’s the most ungodly difficult person to snoop on I
have ever met. When I initially tried, I nearly got run over by
a wagon on three separate occasions. Second time, I went over
the rooftops, stepped on a rotten board, and broke my ankle.
Third time, I nearly got hit by a gods-cursed lightning bolt!
I never saw him do anything but I got a definite impression
that continuing to shadow Qian would be bad for my health—
it was like the streets themselves were looking out for him.
Maybe it’s a scam and Qian just also happens to be a
sorcerer, or I just got really unlucky. Maybe there’s something
more here, some connection between the ceremonies Qian
conducts and the areas of the city he frequents—maybe
even the whole territory of what used to be Lung
Wa. After all, millions of people worshipped the
Eternal Emperor for several centuries, and now,
no emperor. Where does all that power go?
SACRAL LORD
FEAT 4
RARE
CHAMPION
ORACLE
Prerequisites trained in Occultism or Religion
By right of ritual or sheer stubbornness, you have claimed
rulership of the land. Claim a defined territory, such as a small
section of forest or river, or a district of a larger city. Within its
borders, you can cast detect magic, guidance, and sigil as innate
divine cantrips, and you gain a +1 circumstance bonus to Make
an Impression on creatures that have the celestial, fiend, fey,
monitor, or spirit traits.
Special You and your land are linked. Changes to one mirror
themselves on the other—if you’re depressed, gray rain and
clammy mist might set in. These effects have no immediate
mechanical impact, but they might give clues about problems
afflicting the land.
SACRAL MONARCH
FEAT 14
CHAMPION
ORACLE
Prerequisites Sacral Lord, master in Occultism or Religion
You have come into your full powers and are truly a monarch
of your realm, by your own definition at least. While in your
territory, you can cast banishment and inevitable disaster
(Secrets of Magic 111) as innate divine spells, each once per day.
Sacral Gnome
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
21551723
21551723
21551723
35
8
435718
435718
