paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
21551562
21551562
21551562
3555
435557
435557
you roll an Occultism check for Aid as you recall a lesson to
help them. Most lessons take the form of short axioms, parables,
or sayings, meaning that conveying them to your ally usually
grants your Aid reaction the auditory and linguistic traits.
PRECISE DISCIPLINE
Determine intended outcome. Align thoughts. Identify
and resolve distractions. Manifest. Intentional focus is the
key to unleashing your abilities, whether that’s because
your power naturally tends to precise, discrete effects, or
because you’ve adopted strict discipline to ensure your
mind can change the world only when you intend it to.
Your thought components are calculations you make to
determine the forces you need to call upon. Perhaps you
mentally weigh the mass of an object against the force of
gravity to levitate it or you might determine exactly how
much energy is needed for an object to combust. Calculation
components tend to impart ordered visual and auditory
effects to your spell manifestation, such as regular tessellations
of light, mathematical spirals, or harmonic tones.
Key Ability Your key ability score is Intelligence.
Psyche Action Calculate Threats
CALCULATE THREATS [one-action]
MENTAL
PSYCHE
PSYCHIC
Your subconscious automatically calculates vectors and forces
when your mind is unleashed, showing you the likely path of
incoming attacks to avoid. You gain a +2 circumstance bonus
to AC and Reflex saves until the beginning of your next turn.
WANDERING REVERIE
The subconscious is by definition buried below the surface.
Thus, only by stripping away the clamor and interference
of everyday thought can you bring this more fundamental
part of your mind to bear. Whether through sleep,
self-hypnosis, or special exercises to empty your mind,
you’ve found a way to access a deeper, more chaotic state
of free association that better channels your psychic power.
Your thought components come from your imagination,
images, and sensations your mind freely associates. You
might have a passing daydream of small creatures bringing
you an object as you telekinetically attract it or you may
blink to find you’ve teleported to your desired location. Spell
manifestations from imagination components have surreal
or indistinct qualities, and the exact details fade quickly from
observers’ memory, as sensations from a dream.
Key Ability Your key ability score is Charisma.
Psyche Action Fade into Daydreams
FADE INTO DAYDREAMS [one-action]
ILLUSION
PSYCHE
PSYCHIC
Your flights of imagination spill into the real world, causing you
to become indistinct, hazy, or cloaked in figments. You become
concealed until the start of your next turn. This concealment
can’t be used to Hide, as normal for concealing effects that
leave your location obvious.
Conscious Mind
Specific spells you learn come from your conscious
mind, which shapes the raw psychic power from your
subconscious into the forms and phenomena that you
intentionally cast. You select your conscious mind at 1st
level, and it determines the following.
Granted Spells You automatically add the spells listed here to
your spell repertoire, in addition to those you gain through
psychic spellcasting. At 1st level, you gain a 1st-level spell,
and you learn the other spells on the list as soon as you gain
the ability to cast psychic spells of that level, learning the
2nd-level spell at 3rd level, the 3rd-level spell at 5th level,
and so on.
Standard Psi Cantrips These are two common cantrips you
automatically gain at 1st level. While these are the same
cantrips used by other spellcasters, you cast them as psi
cantrips, enabling you to amp them for greater effect. Your
mastery of psychic magic also grants you a passive benefit
that applies every time you cast these cantrips, even when
you haven’t amped them. These benefits apply only with
cantrips you gain from your conscious mind; you would
cast a cantrip you gained with your psychic spellcasting
class feature, for example, as normal even if it appears in a
different conscious mind.
Unique Psi Cantrips These psi cantrips are unique to your
conscious mind. You automatically gain the surface psi
cantrip at 1st level, automatically gain the deeper psi cantrip
at 6th level, and automatically gain the deepest psi cantrip
at 10th level.
THE DISTANT GRASP
Motion characterizes the physical—a boulder falls,
creatures move, the world turns. You believe the truest
form of mind over matter is therefore to move things as
well, wielding telekinesis as an arm that can grasp the
furthest and finest of objects.
Granted Spells 1st: kinetic ram (page 105); 2nd: telekinetic
maneuver; 3rd: levitate; 4th: fly; 5th: telekinetic haul; 6th:
poltergeist’s fury (page 106); 7th: telekinetic bombardment
(page 107); 8th: falling sky (page 105); 9th: implosion
Standard Psi Cantrips mage hand and telekinetic projectile
Unique Psi Cantrips surface: telekinetic rend; deeper: vector
screen; deepest: dancing blade
Mage Hand
Your mage hand can carry up to 1 Bulk instead of only
light Bulk. If the spell is heightened to 3rd level or higher,
its maximum Bulk is 2. If the spell is heightened to 7th
level or higher, its maximum Bulk is 3. It also gains the
following amp.
Amp You create a multitude of telekinetic hands that grip onto
a creature and move it about. Target a creature of Medium
size or smaller with the amped spell instead of an object.
You attempt to Shove the target in a direction of your
choice, rolling a spell attack roll against its Fortitude DC
instead of an Athletics check. The creature takes a –10-foot
1616
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
21551562
21551562
21551562
3555
435557
435557
