paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
21551707
21551707
21551707
35 0
435702
435702
Introduction
The
Archivist’s
Training
Manual
The Stolen
Casefiles
Cryptids
Secret
Societies
Deviant
Abilities
Mirrors and
Imposters
Cults
Curses and
Pacts
Pacts Witch
Patron
Cursed Items
Tempting
Curses
Bargained
Contracts
Pactbinder
Archetype
Curse
Maelstrom
Archetype
Wishes in
Krasnoprudny
Temporal
Anomalies
Mindscapes
Spell &
Item Lists,
Glossary &
Index
Dark
Archive
Activate Interact; Frequency once per day; Effect You feed the
goose the warm, still-bloody heart of any sapient, non-evil
creature who died within the past hour. The golden goose’s
eyes flare red as it chews the heart into pulp. Once the heart
is destroyed, the goose lays a golden egg worth 50 gp, or 100
gp if you murdered the creature for no reason other than to
feed the goose.
After 12 such eggs are laid, the next time you activate the
golden goose, it transmutes your heart to gold. This effect
functions as flesh to stone, with a DC 30 Fortitude save
to resist. If you become petrified, you turn to solid,
transparent stone. Your heart becomes a golden
egg worth 100 gp, which can be retrieved
only by shattering your body. Whether or
not you turn to stone, the golden goose
dissipates with a honk into sulfurous smoke.
MISTRANSLATOR’S DRAFT
ITEM 9
CONSUMABLE
CURSED
DIVINATION
MAGICAL
POTION
Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk L
Activate [one-action] Interact
A pickled lizard’s tongue, tied into a
knot, floats in this oily potion. When you
drink it, you can speak and understand
all spoken (but not written) languages for
1 hour. However, if you attempt to translate
any spoken language, your translation is always
erroneous in a way likely to cause substantial confusion or
anger, typically reducing the listener’s attitude toward you by
one step. You aren’t aware of your error, and any attempt to
correct the mistake only compounds it.
RING OF SNEERING CHARITY
ITEM 7
CURSED
ENCHANTMENT
INVESTED
MAGICAL
Usage worn ring; Bulk –
This gold ring seems to offer good fortune to the wearer when
they are charitable to those in need, but its curse was created
to tear societies apart by inflaming class resentments and
discrediting good works of true charity.
Upon donning the ring, you must attempt a secret DC
25 Will save to avoid activating its magic. If you succeed,
the ring’s curse remains dormant, and it appears to be an
exhausted item with no magic left. If you fail, the curse
awakens, and the ring fuses to you.
You are compelled to spend 10% of your wealth—and 10% of
any future wealth you obtain—on charity. However, your acts
of charity are insensitive and so insulting that they earn the
recipients’ enmity. For example, upon learning someone lost a
child, you might toss money at them “to buy a new one.” You
can’t understand why your gifts aren’t met with gratitude and
resent the unappreciative recipients, and you firmly believe
you should be able to call upon them for favors. You consider
yourself an ideal philanthropist, and you constantly try to
ingratiate yourself with other charitable organizations and
individuals by offering to guide their donations to be more
like your own.
ROSE OF LOVES LOST
ITEM 10
CONSUMABLE
CURSED
ENCHANTMENT
EVIL
MAGICAL
Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk L
Activate [one-action] Interact
No thorns are visible on this ruby-red crystal rose, which seems
to grant a boon to a loved one, but it draws three beads of blood
when first bestowed upon an unwitting recipient. Hags delight
in using the rose’s curse to ruin young lovers, but it can be found
anywhere—even buried innocently in a treasure hoard.
You activate the rose of loves lost by giving it to someone
toward whom you feel romantic attraction. This item functions
only if you feel genuine attraction and desire, and it doesn’t
function if you know the item’s curse. If the target accepts
the gift, they must succeed at a DC 27 Will save with the
effects of charm, except the duration is unlimited. Every
24 hours, the victim attempts another Will save to break
the spell. If they fail three consecutive Will saves, they
become doomed 1, as the rose inflicts a lethal wasting disease
upon the recipient. This value can’t decrease while the curse
continues. Instead, it worsens every 3 days the victim
fails to break the rose’s spell, until the victim either
dies or shakes off the enchantment. A
successful saving throw or remove curse
ends the charm and enables the victim to
begin decreasing their doomed value.
TABLET OF CHAINED SOULS
ITEM 8
CURSED
MAGICAL
NECROMANCY
Usage held in 2 hands; Bulk L
Half-formed, unreadable runes drift across this weathered
stone tablet, which resembles a tombstone too eroded to be
legible. Created by a long-dead order of scholars dedicated to
Pharasma, the tablet of chained souls can be a powerful tool in
laying uneasy spirits to rest, but its magic exacts a heavy cost.
Activate [three-actions] envision, Interact; Effect You present the tablet
to a ghost, or lay it on a haunted site. The tablet’s words
resolve into a cryptic but accurate clue about the unfinished
business that keeps this spirit from rest. Upon reading the
tablet’s words, you are subject to a geas that requires you to
right that wrong and lay the ghost to rest. If you die without
completing the task, you become a ghost, cursed to remain
until another recovers the tablet and discharges your duty.
TALETELLER’S RING
ITEM 9
CURSED
ENCHANTMENT
INVESTED
MAGICAL
Usage worn ring; Bulk –
Smiling faces are inscribed about this silver band. You
become a fluent weaver of fictions, gaining a +2 item bonus
to Deception checks to Lie, Deception DCs against Sense
Motive, and Performance checks for storytelling. Whenever
you’re under suspicion or being questioned by an authority
figure, you find yourself compulsively spinning absurd, tall
tales that are so unconvincing that they make you look guilty
even when you’re innocent. The ring’s bonuses vanish, and
any listener can quickly determine you’re lying. Nevertheless,
you’re completely unable to be honest in such situations.
161
161
Golden Goose
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
21551707
21551707
21551707
35 0
435702
435702
