paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
21551744
21551744
21551744
35 39
435739
435739
CONFINED IN A MINDSCAPE
Disappearances can be attributed to mindscapes, as was
explicitly the case in five files we’ve run across and no
doubt several more unsolved cases. Two of those cases
show a creator trapped in their own mind (and with
companions in one case), and the other three were
malicious imprisonments.
These imprisonments sort into two categories: ones
meant to conceal the fact it’s a prison and ones engineered
specifically to anguish the prisoner. A hidden prison might
look and feel pleasant—the captive may even be happy—
useful to capture someone who’s a danger but not due to
malice. Though no less a prison, it may be more just than
a grimy cell or the gallows. This form is also typical of
self-exile into a mindscape.
The torturous version comes from great malice, an ire
sharpened and crafted into a painful jail, saved for the
most loathed enemies or the cruelest psychics.
We’ve seen many instances of involuntary self-
imprisonment in mindscapes, and with both varieties of
confinement. The archivists involved in one case in southern
Garund reported a youth within his own mindscape was
made a victim of fears so specific to him the imagery
didn’t look like anything particularly frightening to them.
Certainly, it was a punishment rooted in his own anxieties.
A term in a mindscape can be quite long. The greatest
ones endure indefinitely, outlasting their architect and
potentially excluding someone from the world for eons.
The trapped being’s body can die and waste away, leaving
only psychic residue. In the mindscape, this looks—and
smells—like a true corpse. A timeless mindscape, in which
time doesn’t pass, avoids this problem, though eternal
imprisonment is rarely considered a boon by the prisoner.
We were quite fortunate that Venture-Captain Yuul’s
encounter with a mindscape didn’t trap her eternally.
This mindscape, an unending one named the Monastic
Archive, proved its danger by sucking Yuul into memories
of her youth, and only good fortune and cunning by her
fellow Pathfinders secured her freedom. It has become
the mindscape most studied by the Pathfinder Society.
(Frustratingly, these records don’t always get reproduced
and sent to the Dark Archive as they should.) This type
of triggered trap doesn’t typify mindscapes, but nothing
typifies them. They simply can’t be taken for granted any
more than the whims of a person’s mind can be.
BENEVOLENT PURPOSES
Most intentions we’ve mentioned so far are neutral or
malicious. Positive uses are rare, likely due to the expense
and time involved. (Sad to say, experience teaches us most
endeavors people willingly put effort into go toward
harming others.) If mindscapes were more common, I’ve
no doubt they’d come in useful for talking therapy, to
illustrate feelings in a safe realm. Archivist Kanvarati and
others speak glowingly of the calm and self-reflection
they’ve found in their explorations. I personally found
satisfaction and a thrill of creativity in being able to
change my environment (recall the moth?).
Communication through mindscapes also has exciting
potential, surpassing language in the same way a good
piece of art can. The apkallus—which, in case the reader
is unfamiliar, are falcon-headed, winged historians of
Axis—prefer to communicate mentally and mindscapes
make a great tool. I’m keen to meet these beings, though
Archivist Grispinn found them quite didactic and fond
of explaining verbally, in great detail, what was evident
from the scene occurring in the mindscape.
UNENDING VISTAS
We’ve largely kept this discussion to the more common
varieties of mindscapes, but again, the potential seems
limitless. Mass mindscapes call upon the thoughts of a
great many minds to create a sort of shared hallucination.
There is no one author of such a mindscape nor are there
the limits of such an author! In particular, the thoughtforms
of people tend to behave with more nuance, detail, and
knowledge. The drawback here is consistency, as not all
the imaginations stoking the mindscape agree. The same
(imaginary) person might have a vastly different attitude
depending on whose influence is waxing at the time.
A reader acquainted with Archivist Senthene might
wonder about the “pervasive mindscape” hypothesis,
which holds that everything is a mindscape and everyone
and everything an invention of some strange being. If
mindscapes exist, the theory goes, then it’s reasonable to
assume our reality is a mindscape from a high enough
vantage point. A reach to be sure. Is it possible, though?
With what we’ve seen, we’d be surprised but not shocked.
EXTERNALIZED THOUGHTFORMS
We mentioned mental creations of mindscapes escaping
into the greater reality. Of course they do; we’ve come to
expect no less by this point. Creatures born of pure thought
are what we term thoughtforms or thoughtform creatures.
You may think, “what about tulpas?”­—a question I tire
of before it’s even asked these days. Suffice to say, tulpas
can spawn in this way but aren’t the only thoughtform
creatures. Tulpas are defined by a certain sapience and
psychic ability. Most thoughtform creatures are feral
things—emotions or tossed-off thoughts made manifest.
If you’d care to imagine your most careless thoughts, the
ones you think better of uttering, coming to life, you’ll
have some idea what you could involuntarily create.
Once free, these things tend to lose their connection
to the mindscape. If the mindscape is eliminated, the
creature persists autonomously. They must be hunted
down. Archivists excel at this task, of course, as much as
anyone can. Fortunately, the base nature of the creatures
makes them predictable and easy to trick. Even a mighty
thoughtform wields its power clumsily. Tulpas, again, are
another matter. They can be nearly as savvy as a person
born of flesh and aren’t to be taken lightly.
198
198
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
21551744
21551744
21551744
35 39
435739
435739
