paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
21551617
21551617
21551617
356
435612
435612
Introduction
The
Archivist’s
Training
Manual
The Stolen
Casefiles
Cryptids
Aftermath
Feats
Cryptid
Adjustments
Cryptid Gear
Cryptid Class
Feats
The Beast of
Birchfrost
Secret
Societies
Deviant
Abilities
Mirrors and
Imposters
Cults
Curses and
Pacts
Temporal
Anomalies
Mindscapes
Spell &
Item Lists,
Glossary &
Index
Dark
Archive
Birchfrost Beast, the mate has started to transform to take
on that role. Already its snout is starting to elongate, and
its hooves adapt to dig into the ground. A PC can identify
this transformation with a successful DC 18 Nature or
Society check. On a critical success, they also realize this
transformation comes from the urban legends about
the beast. If the PCs manage to subdue and capture the
Birchfrost Beast alive, the transformation is more tenuous
as the legends of the indomitable beast strain against the
creature’s defeat and seek a new claimant.
As the mate and whelp awaken, they’re disoriented. The
PCs have a short window of opportunity to decide what
to do with the creatures before the disorientation turns to
territorial defense. Below are common plans the PCs might
choose. The listed skill checks all have a DC of 18. If a PC
critically fails, the mate immediately attacks to defend the
nest and the whelp joins in. If they present another plan, do
your best to determine the appropriate skills, either using
DC 18 if the plan seems reasonable, or a higher or lower
DC if the plan is especially clever or implausible.
Alter the Creature’s Story: The PCs might already be
aware of the Birchfrost Beast’s rumored nature from a
successful Recall Knowledge check, though it’s highly
unlikely. However, seeing the transformation in process
makes it much easier. They can attempt a Society check and
on a success realize the mate has begun transforming into
the creature of legend. With this success, they realize they
can change the Birchfrost Beast’s story to more appropriate
behavior, such as avoiding local Birchfrost trappers. To do
so, a PC must succeed at a Diplomacy, Performance, or
Society check as they tell a new version of the tale. On
a success, the PCs see the mate change to match the new
tale, such as relaxing if the new story says the Birchfrost
Beast is docile. Ultimately, they will need to spread their
tale throughout the settlement to ensure it endures.
Drive the Creature from the Area: If the PCs opt to drive
the Birchfrost Beast out of the area, they must first identify
an appropriate alternate habitat with a successful Nature
check. On a success, a PC can determine there’s safe area of
forest half a day’s walk outside of town that makes for poor
hunting and is rarely visited by any townsfolk as a result.
After determining where they want to drive the mate and
whelp, they must succeed at an Athletics, Intimidation, or
Nature check as they herd the creatures to their new home.
In their new home, the boars can’t be caught in the story
of the Birchfrost Beast, but in this case the story continues,
awaiting a new beast to take the mantle.
Take the Creature as a Companion: If a PC is interested
in taking one of the creatures as a companion, they can
attempt to form an initial bond with a successful Nature
check. The mate and whelp are both unfriendly to the PCs,
and the DC is increased from 18 to 23. A character with
wild empathy can attempt Diplomacy as normal for the
ability and the DC for the Diplomacy check is only 18. A
success on this check only indicates the mate and whelp are
willing to accompany the PC, as fully training the creature
is beyond the scope of this adventure. By traveling with the
PCs they escape the legend, just as in the previous plan, but
the mantle remains.
Combat: If a PC critically fails a skill check, the moment
of hesitation breaks to combat. The mate aggressively
defends the nest, trying to drive the PCs out by charging
and Shoving the opponent closest to her nest. The whelp is
an ambitious youngster that attempts to pick off weakened
or isolated PCs.
THE MATE
CREATURE 3
Rumored boar (page 61, Pathfinder Bestiary 43)
Initiative Perception +9; darkvision 60 feet, low-light vision,
scent (imprecise) 30 feet
THE WHELP
CREATURE 2
Boar (Pathfinder Bestiary 43)
Initiative Perception +8
HAMPERING WEB
HAZARD 1
Pathfinder Gamemastery Guide 77
Stealth DC 18 (expert)
Conclusion
After ensuring the new Birchfrost Beast won’t harm the
town, the PCs can return. If they bring news of the trappers
or accompanied them back to town, Tola upholds her end
of the promise and gives them her finest pelt, a splendid
beaver skin worth 20 gp.
If the PCs return with the Birchfrost Beast, either with
the body of one of the creatures or a living companion,
this definitive proof turns them into local celebrities for
the next month. If they stay in Birchfrost, they receive
inquiries to see the Beast, tell the tale, and provide pointers
to other would-be cryptid hunters. If they don’t return
with proof, most of the town chalks their stories up to the
exaggerations of wandering adventurers.
If the PCs didn’t find the lair, or if they found it and let
the Birchfrost Beast’s mate and whelp remain there, what
happens next depends on if they returned with the Beast’s
body. With definitive proof, reports of the Birchfrost
Beast’s demise cause the transformation to slow. While the
tale still has its power, the accepted belief that the Beast is
dead means there’s no more requirement for a replacement.
While rumors might pick up again if someone goes missing,
they also might die off. The PCs may be able to add their
own inventions to the tale to avoid another tragedy, or
may even work to aggressively squash the tale and remind
the town the Birchfrost Beast was slain, creating an end
for the tale and causing the need for a beast to disappear.
Even if the PCs learned of the creatures’ true nature, they
still might opt to keep the tale alive. Even if the Birchfrost
Beast, its mate, and litter are dead, encouraging the tale will
eventually cause another creature in the area to transform
to match the rumors. The long-term fate of the Birchfrost
Beast is truly in the PCs’ hands.
7171
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
21551617
21551617
21551617
356
435612
435612
