paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
21551661
21551661
21551661
35656
435656
435656
Sounds of Violence
Incident Location: Nanzhu, Quain, Tian Xia
Incident Type: Siren
Reporting Archivist: Di Renjie, Senior Detective
It’s Inspector Di Renjie of Quain reporting. I know
it’s been a while since my last correspondence to
you, and I apologize in advance for the absence
of pleasantries. Something dangerous has found its
way to Quain, and I believe our field teams lack
sufficient resources to contain it. The incident in
question occurred roughly three weeks ago and was
brought to the Archive’s attention by a local contact
in the magistrate who reported spontaneous acts of
mass violence that decimated the
population of a small agricultural town
west of Nanzhu.
I charged a small response team
to join me in the investigation, arriving
two days after the magistrate’s
report. Upon arrival the village appeared
abandoned, as though a great battle
had been fought. Buildings were reduced
to rubble, bodies littered the streets, and the
foul smell of decay lingered on the air. We
discovered dozens of corpses in various degrees
of mutilation, but not all were created by conventional
weaponry. My team noted many of the victims’ wounds
appeared to be caused by humanoid bites. Most of the
dead showed no signs of defensive wounds, almost as
though they were active participants in the carnage.
The team searched what buildings remained and
discovered a single survivor, an elderly woman named
Qing Shan, beneath the floorboards of the village
temple to Qi Zhong. According to the witness, a drifter
wearing the attire of a cattle herder came into town
carrying an ornate wind instrument crafted from the
horn of an ox. She claims the drifter sent nearly
everyone in the village into a state of animalistic rage
with a single blow of the horn.
As if summoned by her words, a low, growling sound
rang out. Upon hearing it, she cried out for everyone
to cover their ears. I managed to heed her advice,
though not before experiencing an intense pressure
in my ears. Some of my newer trainees were not so
quick. They cast down their weapons, howled with
rage, and charged forward with inhuman speed.
As they set into us with their bare teeth, I couldn’t
render them unconscious with my martial arts alone
and was forced to turn my blade against my own
agents. In the melee, I glimpsed the drifter Qing
Shan described. He stood upon a hilltop, playing his
horn with bloody fingers, but I was unable to pursue.
My remaining team will relocate Qing Shan to a
secure location to conduct a detailed study of how
she was able to resist the power of this object. I
believe the wielder of the instrument might be taunting
the Archive and other similar groups, causing the
massacre to draw us into the countryside and
showing off the horn’s ability to incite violent urges.
I fear such an object could be used to destabilize
major cities.
My official recommendation is for the Archive to
send specialists to locate this cattle herder and
secure the horn—clearly a highly volatile object of vile
magical power.
HORN OF THE AOYIN
ITEM 13
RARE
CURSED ENCHANTMENT
MAGICAL
Usage held in 2 hands; Bulk 1
This musical instrument is crafted from the horn of an
aoyin—a large, cannibalistic beast whose form resembles
an ox with a white body, four horns, and hair as coarse as
straw—and carved with fell
symbols. If the horn of the
aoyin’s owner doesn’t use
the instrument’s activation
on sapient creatures at least
once a day, the horn of the
aoyin activates at some point
of its own choosing on the
owner, and the owner critically
fails with no saving throw.
Activate [two-actions] Interact (auditory, emotion, enchantment,
incapacitation, magical, mental); Requirements You’re
trained in Performance; Frequency once per hour; Effect
You blow the horn, creating a low growling sound.
Creatures other than you within 60 feet must attempt a DC
30 Will save. Those who fail become overwhelmed with an
animalistic rage and the urge to consume flesh for 1 round,
or 1 minute on a critical failure. They indiscriminately
attack the nearest target unaffected by the magic of the
horn unless there are no such targets, at which point
they set on each other. While affected, they gain a jaws
unarmed attack that deals 1d8 piercing damage, deal an
additional 2 damage with unarmed attacks, and lose the
ability to use any weaponry. They also gain a +2 status
bonus to saving throws against mental effects and pain,
can detect bleeding creatures and open wounds as an
imprecise sense with a range of 30 feet, and gain a +10-
foot status bonus to their Speed. Lastly, they take a –1
penalty to AC and are unable to use concentrate actions
other than Seeking. Creatures who critically succeed are
temporarily immune for 24 hours.
Craft Requirements A horn of the aoyin can be crafted only
from a single aoyin horn. Crafting this object must be
undertaken using tools soaked in the wielder’s blood.
Horn of the Aoyin
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
21551661
21551661
21551661
35656
435656
435656
