paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
21551655
21551655
21551655
35650
435650
435650
Introduction
The
Archivist’s
Training
Manual
The Stolen
Casefiles
Cryptids
Secret
Societies
Deviant
Abilities
Deviant
Abilities
Deviant
Spells
A Song of
Making and
Unmaking
Mirrors and
Imposters
Cults
Curses and
Pacts
Temporal
Anomalies
Mindscapes
Spell &
Item Lists,
Glossary &
Index
Dark
Archive
To help with this goal, Yllaldo constructed an enormous
keep near the agricultural town of Tapláche, located on
Xopatl’s southern border. He created a sprawling, maze-
like network of tunnels beneath the keep and placed the
jawbone within a magically sealed chamber hidden among
the depths. Yllaldo remained at the keep for centuries,
guarding it from intruders and using the keep as a watch
point against any threats from the nation of Nalmeras to
the south. Once Yllaldo passed away near the end of the
Age of Darkness, a number of Xopatl’s citizens moved into
what they called Yllaldo Castle. The castle would change
hands several times over the following centuries, with
the most recent residents of the keep being an order of
monks who call themselves the Order of Yllaldo and took
residence in 4608 ar.
The Order of Yllaldo has been trying their best to
maintain the castle while committing to regular patrols
of the tunnels beneath the keep. The depths of the keep
are home to countless monsters and other terrors that
took residence over the millennia of the keep’s existence.
A recent patrol attempted to clear out a bulette that had
taken residence in a cave. The battle was unsuccessful and
the monks fled from the creature. As the bulette returned
to its den in a cave beneath the keep, it collapsed one of
the walls to the sealed chamber containing Nolimarthos’s
jawbone, exposing its resonance to the world once more.
While the note reverberating from the jawbone had
become severely weakened during its containment, it still
had significant power. This power echoed throughout
the chamber, bouncing off the chamber’s magical wards
countless times over millennia. This caused the wards
to weaken over time, allowing for the wall’s accidental
destruction. Now free, the note rang out from beneath
the keep, its power changed. Rather than causing outright
destruction, it granted power to beings near the keep.
Local farmers, travelers, animals, and more soon found
themselves transformed by the resonance and gaining a
number of abilities. These abilities manifested in different
ways, with some creatures gaining control over the
elements or others gaining enhanced physical abilities.
Most became overwhelmed with this power, however, and
simply perished, destroyed by the power of the resonance.
Unclear as to what has caused the development of these
abilities, but recognizing it began after the encounter
with the bulette, the Order of Yllaldo activated a beacon
left by the Dark Archive, calling for specialists to aid in
righting the situation.
Getting Started
The somnambulist bridge ferries the PCs to Yllaldo
Castle, in the magic-saturated Arcadian nation of Xopatl.
As they approach the rose-pink stones, head monk of the
order, Edibaro Jolínarez (LN male human caretaker),
strides out to the meet them. Edibaro takes a moment to
explain the situation to the PCs before taking them to the
tunnels beneath the keep.
As the adventure begins, read or paraphrase
the following.
A muscular man with simple robes opens his tattooed arms
in greeting. “Ah, welcome, heroes! I am glad to see you have
come to aid our humble order in our time of need. I am Edibaro
Jolínarez, head monk of the Order of Yllaldo, ever in your
service.” Edibaro bows slightly.
“As you may have heard, there have been strange goings‑on
in and around Yllaldo Castle of late. I’ve learned of locals
waking with awesome and nightmarish abilities, but becoming
overwhelmed with their mysterious powers, often hurting
themselves or others in the process. While I can’t explain the
reason for these, I do believe I know when they began. Our
order routinely scours the network of tunnels and chambers
beneath the keep to clear out any creatures that might have
taken up residence. During one of these undertakings, we
ran into a powerful bulette that caused a sizable amount of
destruction. We magically sealed off the area in hopes of
returning later to finish the task, but the first transformations
and awakenings of abilities began shortly afterward. We
believe that something occurred during that engagement with
the bulette that might be the cause for all of this.
“Unfortunately, many of our order are now bedridden,
injured as others transformed or sickened by their own, and I’m
afraid our numbers are too small to safely return beneath the
keep to investigate. We assumed a group of investigators such
as yourself could take the lead and assist us with the matter.
Hopefully we can put an end to this whole matter altogether.”
Before heading into the tunnels, the PCs might have
a few questions for Edibaro. The following are a few
possible questions and Edibaro’s responses.
What are these transformations? What abilities are
people gaining? “It’s hard to say. We’ve seen everything
from extreme strength to astral projection. When these
abilities awaken, the person sometimes undergoes a
ABOUT THIS ADVENTURE
Recommended Level: Team of four 6th-level
characters.
A Song of Making and Unmaking takes place in
Yllaldo Castle, a keep near the town of Tapláche, in
the Arcadian nation of Xopatl. A strange artifact is
causing people to spontaneously manifest unique
abilities and powers. Rather than a blessing, these
abilities have led to chaos or loss of life as they
often consume those who awaken them. The PCs
venture into the depths of Yllaldo Castle with a
contingent of monks to investigate the matter, but
when the artifact grants the group abilities, only the
PCs survive the awakening. The PCs will have to use
their new powers to explore the tunnels and defeat
the new guardian of the artifact if they are to put a
stop to the demonic song once and for all.
109
109
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
21551655
21551655
21551655
35650
435650
435650
