paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
21551752
21551752
21551752
35
435747
435747
Sleepwalker (Archetype)
Many think of mental realms and mindscapes as rare and
elaborate constructions, forgetting that everyone creates
their own mental realm when they sleep, one where
even the strangest occurrences seem perfectly normal.
Anything is possible inside these dreamscapes, but few
sapient creatures have the will and insight to take control
and truly explore their unconscious mind.
Sleepwalkers dedicate themselves to unlocking the
secrets of the sleeping mind, taking control of their
dreams and walking through the slumbering vistas of
others. Some are nefarious manipulators, whispering
to the slumbering for personal gain. Others use their
powers for good, seeking evildoers and those who
corrupt dreams to nightmares. As their power grows,
a sleepwalker’s appearance gradually becomes slightly
indistinct, as though they were blurred around the
edges, and those who encounter them find it difficult to
recall exact details about their appearance.
SLEEPWALKER DEDICATION
FEAT 4
ARCHETYPE
DEDICATION
Prerequisites expert in Occultism
You’ve learned to manipulate states of consciousness, beginning
with your own. You can send yourself into a half-awake,
daydreaming state and gain the Daydream Trance action.
Daydream Trance [one-action] (enchantment, mental, occult) You
fall into a half-sleeping trance. This lasts for 1 minute or
until you fall unconscious, whichever comes first. You
can voluntarily end your trance by taking a single action,
which has a concentrate trait, and succeeding at a Will save
against your own class DC or spell DC, whichever is higher.
Once your trance ends, you can’t enter a Daydream Trance
again for 1 minute. While you’re in your trance, you gain the
following effects:
•	 You gain a +1 status bonus to Will saves. This bonus
increases to +2 against mental effects. If you’re
legendary in Occultism, the bonus against mental
effects increases to +3.
•	 You take a –1 penalty to Perception checks and
initiative rolls.
Special You can’t select another dedication feat until you
have gained two other feats from the sleepwalker archetype.
INFILTRATE DREAM
FEAT 6
ARCHETYPE
ENCHANTMENT
MENTAL
OCCULT
Prerequisites Sleepwalker Dedication
Entering a dream is as natural to you as stepping through a
doorway. If you’re adjacent to a sleeping creature, you can enter
a lucid dreamlike state, a process taking 10 minutes, to mentally
walk into their dreamscape. While in the target’s dream, you
witness its contents, plots, and emotional experiences as an
observer, though nothing within the dream can perceive or
interact with you. Your target becomes temporarily immune
to Infiltrate Dream for 1 week. You can’t enter the dreams of a
creature that doesn’t have a conscious mind or doesn’t dream.
While within the dream, you can attempt an Occultism
check against the target’s Will DC to interpret symbolism and
learn information about a single topic. If the target has no
knowledge of the topic, you learn they don’t know about the
topic unless your result is a critical failure.
Critical Success You learn a piece of information directly
relevant to the topic unless the target would want to hide
it. If so, you learn something related to the topic but not a
direct answer.
Success You receive a hint or clue about the topic. This clue
will not be inaccurate, but it’s cryptic, vague, or may be
understandable only with additional information.
Critical Failure The dreams mislead you, and you learn an
erroneous piece of information.
VISION OF FORESIGHT [one-action]
FEAT 6
ARCHETYPE
DIVINATION
FORTUNE
OCCULT
Prerequisites Sleepwalker Dedication
Requirements You’re in a Daydream Trance
You use your daydreams to predict the success of actions,
rapidly envisioning the possibilities. Once before the end of
your next turn, you can call upon these predictions before you
roll a saving throw or skill check. You can roll the saving throw
or skill check twice and take the better result.
DREAM MAGIC
FEAT 8
ARCHETYPE
Prerequisites Sleepwalker Dedication
You learn dream-related magic to aid your studies. Choose
dream message or sleep upon taking this feat; you learn this
spell as a 4th-level innate occult spell. If you choose sleep,
you can cast the spell only while in a Daydream Trance. You
become trained in occult spell attack rolls and spell DCs, and
your spellcasting ability for these spells is Wisdom.
Special You can take this feat twice, gaining the spell you
didn’t select initially the second time.
WAKING DREAM
FEAT 8
ARCHETYPE
Prerequisites Sleepwalker Dedication
While in your trance, you can blur the line between dreams
and reality for others. You gain the waking dream focus spell,
which you can use only while you’re in a Daydream Trance.
You gain a pool of Focus Points with 1 Focus Point and you can
Refocus by taking a nap for 10 minutes. You become trained
in occult spell attack rolls and spell DCs, and your spellcasting
ability for these spells is Wisdom.
ONEIRIC INFLUENCE
FEAT 12
ARCHETYPE
ENCHANTMENT
INCAPACITATION
MENTAL
OCCULT
Prerequisites Infiltrate Dream
While Infiltrating a Dream, you can also implant a suggestion in
the target’s mind. The target must attempt a Will save against
your class DC or spell DC, whichever is higher, to resist your
modification, which has the effects of a subconscious suggestion
spell, but even on a critical success, the target doesn’t realize
206
206
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
21551752
21551752
21551752
35
435747
435747
