paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
21551553
21551553
21551553
355 8
435548
435548
MIOS
Mios was once a simple coach driver in
Ustalav. When they were bitten by a
werewolf, Mios thought their fate was
sealed. After trying every superstition
they knew, they somehow remained
human on the next full moon. They
resolved then and there to protect innocents
from the creatures lurking in the dark, lantern in hand.
THALEON
An impulsive artist from Rahadoum—
where religion is forbidden—Thaleon
was empathic even as a young elf.
When a sandstorm assailed his
home, his emotions awakened latent
psychic magic. Now, he wanders, each
feeling or experience a new shade of color
on his mental canvas.
Introduction
The
Archivist’s
Training
Manual
Psychic Class
Thaumaturge
Class
Psychic
Archetype
Thaumaturge
Archetype
The Stolen
Casefiles
Spell &
Item Lists,
Glossary &
Index
Dark
Archive
THE ARCHIVIST’S
TRAINING MANUAL
CLASSES AND MULTICLASS ARCHETYPES
Two new classes, the psychic and the thaumaturge, dive into the paranormal. The psychic manifests occult
magic from the depths of their mind, while the thaumaturge masters esoteric secrets and mystic implements.
This chapter introduces both classes, as well as their multiclass archetypes for those who wish to dabble.
The Dark Archive has a use for all manner of agents, from
bookish scholars to athletic soldiers, upstanding priests to
clever specialists. Each necessary, each skilled. Yet we deal
with the unknown, and two agents touch the unknown
most directly: the psychic and the thaumaturge.
This is perhaps more literally true with the psychic.
While we know much of magic, the psychic’s power
comes not from generations of ancient blood or the
grace of a being beyond existence, but from nothing
more than their own mortal mind. I wonder whether
all that separates the novice psychic, straining to lift a
feather, from the master who restructures reality with
a thought is not actually their raw power, but that the
master simply believes (or realizes) that fewer limits
apply to them.
Where the psychic may embody the unknown, the
thaumaturge opposes it. Never have I seen archivists go
so quickly from first contact with an unknown beast, to
identifying what folk wisdom or bit of relic will repel it,
to putting it down with swift efficiency. Yet, for all they
oppose of the paranormal, they’re wise enough to use it
themselves. Thaumaturges sprinkle grave dirt or monster
blood on their weapons or use a broken talisman to link
cause and effect because they know that in many cases,
the best way to oppose the unknown is by wielding the
unknown itself.
Working together, a psychic and a thaumaturge have all
the tools to succeed in the Archive’s work. The psychic’s
magic is well suited to perceive and defend against
the formless entities we so often encounter, reaching
into these beings’ minds or shaping force around their
discorporated forms. The thaumaturge’s broad knowledge
and mastery of rumors, trinkets, and superstitions makes
them practically an archive unto themself, with a tool
for any occasion. When dispatched as a team, a psychic
and a thaumaturge complement each other well: the
physical skill-at-arms of a thaumaturge covering for the
more cerebral psychic, and the psychic’s self-sufficient
magic always at reach even when a thaumaturge has long
expended their last talisman.
It is my hope that this training manual gives you all the
information you need to decide which path suits you best
as you begin your journey to catalog—and if necessary,
oppose—the unknown.
7
PSYCHIC
PAGE 8
Guided by the personal combination
of their subconscious and conscious
mind, a psychic calls forth occult magic
with but a thought. The psychic focuses
more on the moment than on daily spell
slots, wielding unique, versatile cantrips
and unleashing their mind to use strange and
powerful abilities.
THAUMATURGE
PAGE 30
The thaumaturge has seen every
monster and knows every secret.
Supplementing their skill at arms and
ability to strike a monster’s weakness
with
myriad
supernatural
trinkets
and mystic implements that can fill a
wide range of roles, the thaumaturge is a
versatile agent who can contribute to any team facing
the unknown.
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
21551553
21551553
21551553
355 8
435548
435548
