paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
21551695
21551695
21551695
35690
435690
435690
Introduction
The
Archivist’s
Training
Manual
The Stolen
Casefiles
Cryptids
Secret
Societies
Deviant
Abilities
Mirrors and
Imposters
Cults
Living Vessel
Archetype
Apocryphal
Domain
Spells
Cult Rituals
The Verdure
of Iblydos
Curses and
Pacts
Temporal
Anomalies
Mindscapes
Spell &
Item Lists,
Glossary &
Index
Dark
Archive
locate a man named Hyacinth (LN male human sailor)
before sailing to Verdure’s island. The few anglers and
dockworkers who notice the newcomers greet them with
nods. Hyacinth approaches the PCs jovially. His attire is
striking, comprised of layered lavender and blue fabric, a
crown of flowers and crystals, and a necklace bearing a
glittering magenta stone. With a grin, Hyacinth explains
to the PCs that their boat is almost ready to depart for
Verdure’s commune. He calls it the Womb of the World,
claiming it to be an incredibly beautiful place where the
Womb’s followers work together to feed off the land and
give back where they can, as Ludovica’s writings preach.
Hyacinth leads the PCs to the Floodmarket nearby,
where the tide has receded enough to leave space for
simple pop-up stalls. In the market, yawning cats push
their luck to be fed, while merchants and customers barter
over produce and fish, undaunted by the early hour. A few
wandering eyes sneak curious looks at the PCs, wondering
if these tourists would be interested in their wares. Upon
recognizing Hyacinth’s clothing, their eyes change from
curiosity to the jealousy and admiration one would show
a high-profile celebrity, realizing the newcomers are about
to board a ship to Verdure. As the PCs follow Hyacinth,
a nervous young woman, Adelphie (NG female human
fishmonger), hurriedly catches up to them. She whispers
to the PCs, carefully out of Hyacinth’s earshot.
“Please, I know you’re going to Verdure. I have not seen or
heard from my sister, Corella, for months now. Members usually
return home regularly to see their loved ones. I’m worried for
her safety, and I just need someone to make sure she’s all right.”
Adelphie disappears as quickly as she appeared, and
before long, Hyacinth leads the PCs to the small boat
that awaits them at the docks. The boat rocks gently as
Hyacinth pushes it off, leading the group to the island
hidden in the dawn’s mists. He tells the PCs that Mother
is excited they have decided to join the group for the
ritual tonight. The ritual ensures a bountiful harvest
for those living in the Womb, as well as other Iblydan
residents in need. The Verdurans do much charity work
for the harbor and want to practice what Ludovica writes
through Mother’s preaching by giving to those who are
less fortunate. As Hyacinth speaks, the PCs notice that his
voice is slightly slurred. Though they may at first suspect
that Hyacinth is drunk, a PC who succeeds at a DC 24
Perception check to Seek notices that Hyacinth’s breath
smells like flowers, not alcohol. A PC who succeeds at a
DC 20 Medicine check determines that his slurred voice is
the result of sleep deprivation, and that he has taken some
kind of drug that is both boosting his mood and helping
him stay awake; on a critical success, they also notice
that the drug makes him somewhat more gullible. If the
PCs ask him about the effect, he calls it “one of Verdure’s
blessings” and assures them that they’ll have the chance to
partake in the blessing after they reach the island.
If the PCs succeed at a DC 19 Diplomacy check to Make
an Impression on Hyacinth, he opens up to them further. He
tells the PCs that he has been a part of the Womb for a few
months, though a new Mother was recently anointed after
the passing of her predecessor. He reveals how, despite the
Womb’s highly selective initiation, he was accepted by the
previous Mother even though he once was a thief who had
to scrounge for food to survive. Now his life’s mission is to
one day ascend through love, light, and helping others.
MERFOLK WARNING
The small boat sails past a few merfolk gathered by a
small isle who warily watch the boat go by, though
they dare not approach the land dwellers. The PCs see
magenta gemstone necklaces dangling against their
chests, glimmering against the light. Hyacinth explains
that sometimes these merfolk swim by the Womb to
trade. The crystals that they carry are a favorite among
the followers, and Mitera makes sure every one of them is
decorated with a piece of the stone at all times.
A PC who inspects the stone on Hyacinth and succeeds
at a DC 20 Perception check realizes that it glows
differently from the ones that the merfolk carry. The PCs
can try to interact with the merfolk from a distance and
catch their attention by succeeding at a DC 26 Diplomacy
check to Make an Impression or a DC 24 Deception check
to covertly signal the merfolk. If anyone succeeds, one
of the merfolk cautiously swims over to the boat while
ABOUT THIS ADVENTURE
Recommended Level: Team of four 8th-level
characters.
The Verdure of Iblydos takes place in the
eponymous island nation, an ancient civilization
whose people have traditionally venerated hero‑gods
but who have begun to seek new paths since the
Age of Lost Omens brought with it the shattering
of countless prophecies. In this adventure, the
PCs investigate troubling signs that Verdure, a
charitable religious group devoted to benevolent
ideals in the service of a hero-god, has turned into a
life-controlling cult under a new leader. Ultimately,
the PCs discover the rot at the cult’s heart and put
an end to the leader’s attempts to gather power for
herself by ritually sacrificing her devoted followers.
Content Note: This adventure contains themes
of emotional abuse, gaslighting, and other forms
of manipulation used by cults, such as sleep
deprivation and love bombing. It also features drug
use and some elements of body horror. Before you
begin, understand that player consent (including
that of the Game Master) is vital to a safe and fun
play experience for everyone. You should talk with
your players before beginning the adventure and
modify descriptions or scenarios as appropriate.
149
149
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
21551695
21551695
21551695
35690
435690
435690
