paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
21551581
21551581
21551581
355 6
435576
435576
Introduction
The
Archivist’s
Training
Manual
Psychic Class
Thaumaturge
Class
Psychic
Archetype
Thaumaturge
Archetype
The Stolen
Casefiles
Spell &
Item Lists,
Glossary &
Index
Dark
Archive
INTENSIFY VULNERABILITY [one-action]
CONCENTRATE
DIVINATION
ESOTERICA
MAGICAL
THAUMATURGE
Prerequisites Exploit Vulnerability
Frequency once per round
Requirements You’re benefiting from Exploit Vulnerability,
you can see the subject, and you haven’t used Exploit
Vulnerability this round.
You present your implement and esoterica again, intensifying
their effects on the target in a way unique to your implement.
You gain the intensified vulnerability benefit from one of the
implements you’re holding, which lasts until the beginning of
your next turn.
THAUMATURGIC EXPERTISE
9TH
You’ve learned deeper secrets of the supernatural, and
your abilities are harder to resist. Your proficiency rank
for your thaumaturge class DC increases to expert.
You also gain an additional skill increase, which you
can apply only to Arcana, Nature, Occultism, or Religion.
VIGILANT SENSES
9TH
Through your adventures, you’ve developed keen
awareness and attention to detail. Your proficiency rank
for Perception increases to master.
MEDIUM ARMOR EXPERTISE
11TH
You’ve learned to defend yourself better against attacks.
Your proficiency ranks for light armor, medium armor,
and unarmored defense increase to expert.
SECOND ADEPT
11TH
You’ve improved your link to your second implement.
You gain the adept benefit of your second implement.
GREATER RESOLVE
13TH
Your unbelievable training grants you mental resiliency.
Your proficiency rank for Will saves increases to legendary.
When you roll a critical failure on a Will save, you get
a failure instead. When you roll a failure on a Will save
against a damaging effect, you take half damage.
WEAPON MASTERY
13TH
You fully understand your weapons. Your proficiency
ranks for simple and martial weapons increase to master.
GREATER WEAPON SPECIALIZATION
15TH
Your damage from weapon specialization increases to 4
with weapons and unarmed attacks in which you’re an
expert, 6 if you’re a master, and 8 if you’re legendary.
JUGGERNAUT
15TH
Your body is accustomed to physical hardship and
resistant to a wide range of ailments. Your proficiency
rank for Fortitude saves increases to master. When you
roll a success on a Fortitude save, you get a critical
success instead.
THIRD IMPLEMENT
15TH
As you come closer to the culmination of your journey,
you gain your final implement, completing your set of
three. It must be a different type of implement than your
first and second implements. You gain the initiate benefit
and intensify vulnerability benefit of your new implement.
IMPLEMENT PARAGON
17TH
You have unlocked the last secrets of an implement. Choose
one of your implements that already gained the adept
benefit; you gain the paragon benefit for that implement.
THAUMATURGIC MASTERY
17TH
You’ve become a master in paranormal phenomena, and
your esoterica grow in power. Your proficiency rank for
your thaumaturge class DC increases to master.
You also gain an additional skill increase, which you
can apply only to Arcana, Nature, Occultism, or Religion.
MEDIUM ARMOR MASTERY
19TH
Your skill with light and medium armor improves,
increasing your ability to avoid blows. Your proficiency
ranks for light and medium armor, as well as for unarmed
defense, increase to master.
UNLIMITED ESOTERICA
19TH
Your understanding of your esoterica becomes so complete
that you can access your mystic tools without even
thinking. You can use Exploit Vulnerability or Intensify
Vulnerability as a free action, rather than a single action,
though still with a frequency of only once per round.
CARDS AND ASTROLOGY
The thaumaturge class draws inspiration from
symbolism pertaining to both real-world and fantasy
beliefs about divination via cards or reading the
stars. The class references the following Golarion-
specific divination deck and zodiacs.
The Harrow is a divination deck similar to tarot
on Earth, but with six suits of nine cards each. The
suits each have a symbological correspondence with
one of the six ability scores. For example, the suit of
hammers has a connotation of strength, and the suit
of books is related to learning and intelligence.
The Cosmic Caravan is an astrological zodiac
especially common among Varisians but used
throughout various regions in the Inner Sea,
imagining the 13 different signs as members of a
traveling caravan as well as locations and people
encountered on the journey.
The Dragon Empires Zodiac is popular across the
continent of Tian Xia, particularly with the oracles of
Po Li, who use it to help craft laws. It contains 12 signs,
comprising the five types of imperial dragon as well as
other creatures and archetypes of import in Tian Xia.
35
35
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
21551581
21551581
21551581
355 6
435576
435576
