paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
21551587
21551587
21551587
3558
435582
435582
Introduction
The
Archivist’s
Training
Manual
Psychic Class
Thaumaturge
Class
Psychic
Archetype
Thaumaturge
Archetype
The Stolen
Casefiles
Spell &
Item Lists,
Glossary &
Index
Dark
Archive
The initiate benefit’s circumstance bonus to Recall
Knowledge from holding your tome increases from +1
to +2. When you succeed at the Recall Knowledge check
granted by the tome’s adept benefit, the bonus applies to all
attack rolls you make before the start of your next turn, not
just your next one. Lastly, when you gain temporary skill
proficiencies, both are legendary.
WAND
Wand implements are short, lightweight batons, usually
made of wood but often incorporating other materials. Due
to their association with spellcasters, wand implements are
connected to magic and its practice, as well as the direction
and manipulation of energy. Wand implements are associated
with the astrological signs of the thrush and the sky dragon.
Initiate Benefit
Your wand slowly collects ambient magic, which you can
project at a foe in a barely controlled display of charged
energy. When you gain this implement, choose whether
your wand is attuned to cold, electricity, or fire. You gain
the Fling Magic activity.
FLING MAGIC [two-actions]
CONCENTRATE
EVOCATION
MAGICAL
MANIPULATE
THAUMATURGE
Requirements You are holding your wand implement.
You fling magical energy at a target within 60 feet, dealing
damage equal to 1d4 + your Charisma modifier to the target, with
a basic Reflex save against your class DC. The damage is of the
type you selected when you gained your wand implement. At 3rd
level and every 2 levels thereafter, the damage increases by 1d4.
You can expend more energy than usual to boost the effect
of Fling Magic, dealing d6s of damage instead of d4s. After you
do so, the wand takes 1d4 rounds to recharge, during which
you can’t boost the wand’s damage but can continue to Fling
Magic normally. If you critically hit with a Strike, your wand
recharges immediately as it draws in power from the clash.
Special This activity has the trait corresponding to the
damage type you selected.
Adept Benefit
7th
You gain versatility and additional benefits when you
fire your wand. The range of Fling Magic increases to
120 feet. Choose a second damage type from the list;
whenever you Fling Magic, you can select between either
of the two damage types you have chosen. Fling Magic
has an additional effect if the target fails its save and takes
damage, depending on the type.
•	 Cold: The target becomes chilled, taking a –10-foot
status penalty to its Speeds for 1 round.
•	 Electricity: The target is shocked, becoming
flat‑footed until the end of your next turn.
•	 Fire: The target catches flame, taking 1d10 persistent
fire damage (or 2d10 on a critical failure). If you
have the wand paragon benefit, this increases to 2d10
persistent fire damage (or 4d10 on a critical failure).
Intensify Vulnerability
9th
Your empowered wand surges with ever-more-powerful
magic. When you Fling Magic to damage the target of
your Exploit Vulnerability, you deal additional damage to
the creature equal to 1 + the number of damage dice.
Paragon Benefit
17th
Your mastery of your wand grants you increased versatility,
range, and area. The range of Fling Magic increases to 180
feet. You gain the ability to choose between all three damage
types (cold, electricity, and fire) each time you use Fling
Magic. When you Fling Magic, you can choose to target a
single creature or to affect all creatures in a 20-foot burst.
WEAPON
Weapon
implements
are
the
most
direct
and
confrontational,
representing
battle,
struggle,
and
potentially violence. You can choose only a one-handed
weapon as an implement, which allows you to channel
energies into your weapon as well as hold your other
implements once you gain them. Weapon implements
are associated with the harrow suit of hammers and the
astrological signs of the rider and the swordswoman.
Initiate Benefit
Your weapon trembles slightly in your hand, seeking out
your foe’s weakness to it and interrupting their actions.
You gain the Implement’s Interruption reaction.
At 5th level, when you gain thaumaturgic weapon
expertise, your instinctive knowledge of your weapon
implement also grants you the weapon’s critical
specialization effect.
IMPLEMENT’S INTERRUPTION [reaction]
EVOCATION
MAGICAL
THAUMATURGE
Trigger The target of your Exploit Vulnerability uses a
concentrate, manipulate, or move action, or leaves a square
during a move action it’s using.
Requirements You’re holding your weapon implement and are
benefiting from Exploit Vulnerability against a creature. The
creature must be within your reach if you’re wielding a melee
weapon, or within 10 feet if you’re wielding a ranged weapon.
Your weapon senses a moment of weakness and guides your
hand to strike down a foe. Make a Strike against the triggering
creature with your weapon implement. If your attack is a
critical hit, you disrupt the triggering action. This Strike doesn’t
count toward your multiple attack penalty, and your multiple
attack penalty doesn’t apply to this Strike.
Adept Benefit
7th
When your implement lashes out at your foe, even a
close miss brings the weapon close enough to do harm.
When you use Implement’s Interruption and fail (but
don’t critically fail) the Strike, you deal 1 damage of
the weapon’s normal type, possibly applying any bonus
damage due to the target’s weakness.
4141
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
21551587
21551587
21551587
3558
435582
435582
