paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
21551664
21551664
21551664
35659
435659
435659
matches that of the clones encountered during the return
of the runelords in Varisia. If the runelords (and likely
other Thassilonians) knew how to copy themselves,
certainly syrinxes could develop the same skill. A small
village of clones doesn’t seem like a major threat, but what
was its purpose? Who were the original pair this village
was copied from? And do these copies only look like the
originals, or might they also mimic skills, faculties, and
magic? A terrifying thought in the case of the runelords.
Two beings of such power, clashing together.
ACCIDENTAL ARRIVALS
Of course, not all such artificial
duplicates are intentional. Magic goes
awry and common spells suddenly and
spontaneously
manifest
duplicates.
How widespread is this? Why does
it happen? There must be answers!
The spells range in power from the
relatively simple mirror image that
many new adventurers master to more
powerful effects, such as replicate and
mirror’s misfortune. In some number of
cases, when the spell ends, the illusion
created remains, a corporeal twin.
Our mission to the Mana Wastes to
disassemble a Catastrophe Rune led
to one such arrival, but other reports
say they have spawned from bungled
attempts to counter or dispel magic or
arisen when the caster is killed in the
very process of sustaining their spell. Some claim the
progenitor and duplicate must act even more in tandem
than expected with such magic, must be in the presence
of some reflective surface, or must be separated (is this
more common with the mislead spell?).
Archivist Irabie—the actual Irabie, who became
obsessed with these investigations after her return—
hypothesized the calendar could factor into this. Known
instances all happened on “mirrored” or “doubled”
dates: the 11th or 22nd of a month, or some other
palindromic number, such as Rova 17, 4719, when we
confirmed two instances in Garund and Avistan. I knew,
I simply knew her hunch had to be right, it explained
everything. Indeed, upon subsequent research, she was
able to confirm another such duplication event involving
a mountain priest in Shenmen, on the 12th of Sarenith
in 4716, or 7216 in the Imperial Calendar.
Unexpected duplicates seem to vary in their outlooks.
Some hate their creators for making them act as decoys
to allow their creator to escape unharmed. Others try
to carry on as their progenitor would have (especially
if their progenitor dies). Yet others simply try to
establish their own life, even going so far as changing
their appearance (how they dress, tattoos, facial hair) to
distinguish themselves.
IMPOSTORS, KNOWN AND SUSPECTED
False faces can lurk behind any warm smile. Forget reported
fey abductions and other humdrum. (The Vidric envoy
hasn’t been replaced by a mirror-risen reflection in New
Stetven, Archivist Hathshi. She’s acting strangely because
she’s having an affair. Not everyone!) Many reports of
duplicates seem to center on locations. If barriers between
our world and the Shadow Plane/First World/Ethereal
Plane is thinner at some spots, could there be locations
where the Echoing Pale exerts a stronger influence?
•	 Solitary students at the Seven Veils
Academy in Quantium find their way to
a basement study room with a crystalline
pool. Rumors claim if they cast a simple
mirror image spell in there, their images
take on more independent forms, letting
them form their own study group. But
sometimes students emerge... different.
They seem fixated on solving all their
problems. Sometimes it’s as simple as
revealing misdeeds that are troubling
their conscience (though this frequently
causes new problems), but sometimes it’s
more dire. One ambitious boy became
the top student by the simple method of
murdering his rival. Effective, but hardly
best practice. Schoolmaster Denungar
Neev won’t allow us to investigate, and
the school’s focus on illusion magic means
they’re well used to spotting subterfuge.
•	 Haseong’s Twin Orchids Theater is
known for the elaborate dramas it stages. Claims
its actors are the finest in Tian Xia. Some are so
dedicated they never shed their role and go so far as
to start resembling their subjects even after they step
off the stage. It might just be method acting, but such
a simple explanation defies the queen’s decision to
forbid the staging of the new play The Sail and the
Sky—wildly popular at other theaters—or any other
dramas or pieces featuring herself or other members
of the Nuri dynasty. This has caused much dismay in
the city, so the queen clearly fears what these “actors”
could be capable of.
•	 More ominous is the Fellowship of Guile’s Guise,
a collective of fell gnomes based in Jalmeray that
use their illusion magic to stave off the Bleaching.
They take the face and place of an innocent, random
(investigate this) victim and delight in seeing how
long they can maintain their impersonation and how
far they can push its bounds before people realize
the truth. Their victims return—or are returned—to
find their lives in shambles. Based on location, we
assumed many of this fellowship were worshippers of
Sivanah, but recent rumors indicating some members
are taking money for specific impersonations hint at
a Norgorberite influence.
118
118
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
21551664
21551664
21551664
35659
435659
435659
