paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
21551677
21551677
21551677
356
435672
435672
Introduction
The
Archivist’s
Training
Manual
The Stolen
Casefiles
Cryptids
Secret
Societies
Deviant
Abilities
Mirrors and
Imposters
Reflection
Versatile
Heritage
Hazards of
Perception
Alter Ego
Archetype
Lady of the
Harvest
Cults
Curses and
Pacts
Temporal
Anomalies
Mindscapes
Spell &
Item Lists,
Glossary &
Index
Dark
Archive
Hazard: Another manifestation of the house’s strange
energy waits in this narrow kitchen.
CONSTRICTING HALL
HAZARD 8
Page 124
Stealth +21 (expert)
SECOND FLOOR
This floor is largely the same as the first, and in an
equal state of decay, but the ceilings are 15 feet high to
accommodate the towering hall of mirrors (area B7).
B1. SECOND FLOOR LANDING
This marble-floored landing wraps around the grand staircase.
Pseudo-classical statuettes of human figures top the pedestals
in both western corners, each draped in decorative robes, but a
layer of grime covers them.
The stairs are old and rotten. Anyone climbing them must
succeed at a DC 22 Acrobatics check to tread lightly. They
should make this check halfway up the stairs or higher.
On a failure, a creature breaks through the stairs and
falls to the floor below, taking 1d6 slashing damage from
splintering wood in addition to any falling damage. The
space on the stairs where the creature stood is then broken.
Opposite the grand staircase is the Hall of Mirrors (area
B7). The first time the PCs pass through B1 and into B7,
read the read-aloud text, but don’t run the encounters.
The hazard doesn’t activate, and the blood painter doesn’t
reveal himself until the PCs have experienced the full
extent of the curse by exploring the whole house.
Clue: A PC who succeeds at a DC 23 Perception check
notices a smear of blood across the base of the statuette in
the northwest corner.
B2. MASTER BEDROOM
MODERATE 7
This master bedroom would’ve had a spectacular view of the
garden through the tall bay windows, if the garden had ever
been finished. Instead, it looks out on a tangle of overgrown
weeds and blackberry brambles. A four-poster bed occupies the
center of the room, carved in spectacular filigree. To the side, a
tall standing mirror sits in one corner, leaning slightly backward,
sporting a heavy layer of dust across its surface. A door to the
east leads into a disused but grand master bathroom.
HAUNTED HOUSE
Strange energies in the manor, combined with the deaths
that occurred, create a variety of unnatural effects.
Additionally, Ogkrix has left a mess in a number of
rooms as he cased the house. The following events can
occur in any area and, instead of being connected to a
certain location, are triggered by the PCs’ actions. Each
event describes a trigger to let you know when to run
that event. At your discretion, feel free to add or subtract
other floating events or run them at different times to
create the appropriate atmosphere for your game.
Event #1: Lost Souls
Low 7
Trigger: This event occurs the first time the PCs use
healing magic. If they do so in the middle of a combat
encounter with other creatures or a complex hazard, the
presence of the other spirits gives the ghosts pause; in that
case, the PCs hear ghostly moaning and the sounds of
ethereal construction in the ceiling right away, but wait
for 1d4 rounds to pass before the ghosts arrive so they
don’t overwhelm the PCs alongside the other encounter.
Creatures: During construction of the manor, three
workers died when a large portion of the ceiling collapsed.
Trapped in the house they gave their lives to create,
they rose as ghosts and descend through the ceiling of
whichever room the PCs currently occupy. Ending the
curse upon the mansion frees the ghosts.
ELITE GHOST COMMONERS (3)
CREATURE 5
Pathfinder Bestiary 6, 167
Initiative Stealth +14
Event #2: Ransacked
Trigger: This event triggers twice: when someone
Refocuses for the first time and after the PCs have cleared
five rooms. Once it triggers, the event only occurs after
exploring the next room.
This room has clearly been visited by some kind of
creature. Scratches and spatters of blood mark one of
the walls, a few feet off the ground and concentrated in
one area. Some of the scratches are deep enough to break
through the plaster, exposing the inner frame of the wall.
Several small objects have been knocked over in the
vicinity. The general sense is that someone has been here,
searched for something on the wall, and when they came
up empty, left a mess in their wake.
Event #3: Blood Painted
Trigger: This event occurs after the PCs have cleared
eight rooms, the next time they enter a new room.
A curtain in this room has been slathered in blood
in elaborate whirls, and a PC who succeeds at a DC 23
Perception check or DC 18 Art Lore check can tell that they
resemble brush strokes. In the center of the bloodstained
curtain, a hefty chunk of fabric has been ripped out, leaving
a gaping hole. The jagged edges suggest they were made
by claws, or perhaps teeth. Bits of frayed threads litter the
floor beneath, along with dried drops of blood.
A PC who succeeds at a DC 23 Occultism or
appropriate Lore check can tell a strange feeding ritual
done by some kind of monstrous creature made this
mess. If they critically succeed, they suspect it might be
a blood painter.
131
131
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
21551677
21551677
21551677
356
435672
435672
