paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
21551631
21551631
21551631
356 6
435626
435626
Introduction
The
Archivist’s
Training
Manual
The Stolen
Casefiles
Cryptids
Secret
Societies
Occult Skill
Feats
Secret
Society
Member
Secret
Society Gear
Secret
Society
Membership
Services
Shaking
the Helping
Hand
Deviant
Abilities
Mirrors and
Imposters
Cults
Curses and
Pacts
Temporal
Anomalies
Mindscapes
Spell &
Item Lists,
Glossary &
Index
Dark
Archive
there’s the false witness, a professional in the art of
fraudulent testimony.
Some false witnesses are truly freelance, willing to
claim to have seen someone for the price of a round of
drinks. More respectable witnesses, however, tend to be
associated with thieves’ guilds, secret societies, and other
conspiracies. Such organizations can match a person in
need of an alibi with a witness
with no apparent connection
to them, and they often
have large enough numbers
that no one witness appears
before law enforcement often
enough to arouse suspicion. The
most expensive and professional
false witnesses use memory charms
or similar techniques to render their
testimony foolproof. Typically, a false
witness charges per incident, providing a false alibi and,
if necessary, hiring other witnesses to back themselves up
and thus foul an investigation.
False witnesses generally know better than to ask
questions, but depending on their background, might refuse
to protect—and might even turn in—someone involved in
a particularly heinous crime. A tavern keeper might have
no qualms about covering for burglars and footpads but
will gladly send a child murderer to the gallows.
•	 Disreputable false witnesses fall into two main
types: people considered unreliable to a typical
investigator—barflies, beggars, petty criminals—and
poor actors, their perjury painfully transparent to any
court taking a cursory effort to cross-examine them.
•	 Ordinary false witnesses are usually on the edges
of the criminal community but can at least pass
themselves off as respectable: retired thieves, relatives
of criminals, or the like.
•	 Reputable false witnesses are upstanding members of
the community, though typically ones with secrets: a
merchant who acts as a fence on the side or a clerk
with gambling debts. This is the highest level that’s
ever available to characters without membership in
a secret society or similar conspiracy (such as a spy
network or thieves’ guild).
•	 Honorable false witnesses are pillars of society and
likely have no illicit connections save for their contact
with the society or conspiracy: well-to-do aristocrats
who were discussing business with the subject or
somber church deacons who report the subject prayed
all night for a loved one’s soul.
•	 Unimpeachable false witnesses provide signed
affidavits from impeccable sources like the High
Priest of Pharasma, the Chief Magistrate of the Royal
Court, or the king’s favorite aunt.
Detecting False Testimony: To defeat a false witness’s
testimony, an investigator must succeed at a check against
the DC listed in the table. The check used depends on the
investigation: Perception to Sense Motive versus spoken
testimony, Society to determine forgeries, and so on. A
false witness can sometimes stymie an investigation where
the lead investigator is sufficiently lower level than the
false witness, and they might be able to delay or befuddle
a more serious investigation.
POLITICAL FAVOR
For many, the allure of being
in a secret society is the chance
to place their hands on the
levers of power in government.
Members can rub elbows with the
great and good, introduce themselves
to politicians and powerbrokers, and
form bonds through shared allegiances
unavailable to the common rabble. They can
lean on those connections for a favor, some little trifle that
might matter a great deal to them.
Purchasing political favors typically requires membership
in a secret society that has significant political sway in the
region (such as the Esoteric Order of the Palatine Eye in
Ustalav). At the GM’s discretion, characters with similarly
deep connections (perhaps by virtue of having the royalty
background) might also be able to purchase political
favors. While the options below assume the favors are
being purchased with cash, in most secret societies, favors
are more likely to be traded for other favors or services
rendered. The granter of the favor isn’t necessarily a
member of a secret society, but anyone in high office is
invariably entangled in webs of favor and obligation.
The degree of the favor is based on how much effort
it requires of the decision-maker and how much risk to
which it exposes them. This can vary depending on the
NPC. A moderate favor that takes days or weeks of work
for a lord in high standing might be fulfilled with one
sentence from a monarch.
•	 Minor favors involve little risk and can be done in a
matter of minutes, or at most, a few hours. Examples
include signing a search warrant against a target of
no political importance or arranging the loan of some
horses from a military stable.
•	 Moderate favors require work from the politician
and the expenditure of at least some political capital,
such as having the government purchase a specific
building, or reassigning a meddlesome city watch
officer. Typically, only NPCs of 11th level or higher
can grant such favors. If an NPC is a specialist with
a higher level for some tasks, that higher level could
apply here, as determined by the GM.
•	 Major favors are serious, politically fraught, or
otherwise controversial: pardoning a notorious
criminal or granting a royal trade monopoly.
Typically, only NPCs of 17th level or higher can grant
such favors, with exceptions for specialists.
85
85
Third Eye Crown (Counterfeit)
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
21551631
21551631
21551631
356 6
435626
435626
