paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
21551646
21551646
21551646
356
435641
435641
BACKLASH
The same blood that lets one of the dragon-descended spit
out a gout of flame is precisely what keeps the inside of
their mouth from being singed in the furnace. Deviations,
unfortunately, lack these safeguards, their powers coming
from haphazard circumstance and interactions rather
than intentional design. A character using their deviation
always risks the chance of backlash.
Whenever you attempt to use a deviation, roll a DC 5
flat check. On a success, you use your deviation and the
DC for subsequent checks increases by 5, to a maximum
of 20; on a failure, you use your deviation and then suffer
a backlash effect, after which your flat check DC resets to
5. Backlash progresses from mild, to moderate, to severe.
When you have already taken mild backlash in a given
day, the next time you would take backlash, you take the
moderate backlash instead, and if you have already taken
moderate backlash, you take the severe backlash instead,
and your deviation can’t be used for the rest of the day—
attempting to use it simply brings pain. When you make
your daily preparations, your flat check DC returns to 5
and your next backlash returns to mild.
Any effects from backlash can’t be reduced, prevented,
or otherwise bypassed. Conditions and damage you take
from backlash can’t be reduced or prevented by resistance
or immunity, but still triggers any weakness you have to it.
AWAKENED POWERS
A deviant ability’s unstable nature means it can grow in
power at a later point, responding to a stressful moment or
continuing to evolve along a mysterious path. “Awakening”
lines in deviant feats represent possible paths the power’s
awakening can take. You don’t gain the awakening unless
you take a feat that grants you those benefits. You can gain
only one awakening for a given deviant feat.
UNIVERSAL FEATS
These feats are useful for any deviant ability user. If you’re
using the background approach, you can select these feats
regardless of your classification.
AWAKENED POWER
FEAT 4
RARE
DEVIANT
Your power spontaneously evolves or reconfigures itself. You gain
one awakening benefit for a deviant feat of 4th level or lower.
Special You can take this feat multiple times. Each time you
do, choose a different deviant feat of 4th level or lower, and gain
one of its awakening benefits.
GREATER AWAKENED POWER
FEAT 10
RARE
DEVIANT
Your power undergoes yet another awakening. You gain one
awakening benefit for a deviant feat of 10th level or lower.
Special You can take this feat multiple times. Each time you
do, choose a different deviant feat of 10th level or lower, and
gain one of its awakening benefits.
DRAGON
Deviant abilities often trace their origin to massive
concentrations of energy, such as being at ground zero of
a detonating magical artifact. These energies can linger
within an individual to grant them deviations falling under
the dragon classification—gouts of flame, electrical breath,
and the like—projecting and absorbing it to great effect.
When you gain a dragon-type deviation, choose a type of
damage, from cold, electricity, fire, or sonic. All abilities you
gain from this deviation deal this type of damage and add the
corresponding trait to the ability. You also use this damage
type for the damage and weakness from your backlash.
BLASTING BEAMS [one-action]
FEAT 2
RARE
ATTACK
DEVIANT
EVOCATION
MAGICAL
Requirements You have a free hand.
A directed beam of heat or an arc of lightning is one of the
simplest ways to project energy. You fire a blast or beam from
one hand. Make an attack roll against a creature within 30 feet.
If you succeed, the beam deals 1d6 damage for every 2 levels
you have to the target, or double damage on a critical success.
Awakening Your beams blast through targets. Instead of
making an attack roll to damage a single creature within 30
feet, you can use Blasting Beams as a 2-action activity to
damage all creatures in a 60-foot line, with a basic Reflex save.
Awakening You can choose to launch smaller, quicker
beams from your eyes instead. These deal d4s instead of d6s,
but the attack has the agile trait, and you don’t need a hand
free to make it, though your eyes must be uncovered.
CONSUME ENERGY [reaction]
FEAT 2
RARE
ABJURATION
DEVIANT
MAGICAL
Trigger An enemy within 60 feet uses an ability that has the
trait corresponding to your deviation damage type.
Your connection to energy is so much stronger than the
offending display in front of you, allowing you to claim it for
yourself. Attempt a counteract check against the triggering
effect as you draw it into your body. If you successfully
counteract the ability, you gain temporary Hit Points equal to
double the counteract level of the ability, which last for 1 minute.
Awakening The energy you consume helps empower your
abilities. The next ability from the dragon classification that
you use increases its range by 30 feet if it has a range, or
increases its area by 10 feet if it’s a cone or line. If you don’t
use this benefit within 1 minute, it fades.
Awakening You channel some of the seized energy into
your next attack. Choose one of your weapons or unarmed
attacks. Until the end of your next turn, Strikes with the
chosen weapon or unarmed attack deal an additional 1d6
damage of a type matching the energy you consumed.
STORMING BREATH [two-actions]
FEAT 6
RARE
DEVIANT
EVOCATION
MAGICAL
You spit out a freezing breath or sonic scream. You deal 4d6
damage, plus 1d6 damage for every level you have beyond 6th,
to all creatures in a 30-foot cone, with a basic Reflex save.
100
100
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
21551646
21551646
21551646
356
435641
435641
