paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
21551599
21551599
21551599
3559
435594
435594
Introduction
The
Archivist’s
Training
Manual
The Stolen
Casefiles
Cryptids
Aftermath
Feats
Cryptid
Adjustments
Cryptid Gear
Cryptid Class
Feats
The Beast of
Birchfrost
Secret
Societies
Deviant
Abilities
Mirrors and
Imposters
Cults
Curses and
Pacts
Temporal
Anomalies
Mindscapes
Spell &
Item Lists,
Glossary &
Index
Dark
Archive
Serpents, krakens, and devilfish may swallow us whole
and we stand helpless to do anything but pray. But
what’s truly frightening aren’t the monstrous beasts
that slither the undercurrents. Their motivations are
clear. It’s creatures we can’t even begin to comprehend
we should truly fear.
An expedition into arctic waters isn’t my first choice
of activity, but fishers from the Ironbound Archipelago
spoke of a peculiar phenomenon where a strange choral
singing could be heard in the distance. Setting out to
sea, we could follow the sound. Most who set out never
returned, and sometimes their vessels would arrive on
shore, devoid of any signs of life save the clothes lying on
deck, as if rashly discarded—reminiscent of the frequent
disappearances on Lake Ocota.
Archivist Vyi was speaking to the helmsman of our
vessel about some unrelated matter when we heard the
sound. The singing grew louder as we approached, until
our eyes caught the shining of multicolored lights below,
bouncing off shards of ice. Though clear for quite a ways
down, it was evident the lights were coming from much,
much deeper. It was at this point the helmsman began
shedding clothing, like a moth emerging from its cocoon.
It took two of us to hold him back as he struggled,
attempting desperately to dive into the water.
Sometime later, having managed to restrain the
derelict helmsman, we set up an observation platform
closer to the water, taking care to cover our ears—not
that we’d have liked them exposed in sub-zero anyway.
What we saw was chilling. Dozens of undressed bodies
floating aimlessly around the source of the lights: a
colossal jellyfish-like creature, extending nearly 100 feet
across, scattering beautiful, scant light in all directions.
Whatever this creature was, it seemed far more ancient
than we could understand. Gazing on its light gave me
an uncanny impression that in the course of its life it
swam amid the stars themselves.
Upon our observation of it, the singing stopped
abruptly. Though the creature made no movements
toward us, the bodies pivoted to face in our direction,
in unison. It was then we decided to pack up and move
out. I had Archivist Galan navigate the ship until the
helmsman returned to consciousness, seemingly no
longer under whatever affliction had overtaken him. He
reported very few memories of the occasion, simply that
“it was like a warm dream.”
FACSIMILE
Near Shokuro’s capital city of Mukinami, a woodcutter
walked into the forest, slept for one night, and returned
a rich man, sporting bags full of golden coins. He first
repaired his home with the money, then bought meat
for his son, then gifts for his wife. Every new moon, he
returned to the forest, slept for one night, then came
out with a bag of gold. It wasn’t long before he moved
from buying necessities to luxuries, and from luxuries
to excess. The wealth twisted him, until he no longer
resembled the humble woodcutter.
And then the typhoons hit. Powerful storms strong
enough to tear through every home. “No matter,”
thought the woodcutter, only to find his hoard of gold
had disappeared. He ran to the forest but to no avail.
His wellspring had run dry. When he returned home, he
found an angry mob of people, all complaining about the
gold he’d paid them disappearing. The mob tore through
his home and, in less than a day, he had even less than he
started with.
This is the stuff of folktale and myth, a straightforward
moral lesson about the importance of tempering one’s
greed. The kind of bedtime story my mother would
tell (though the Varisian version of the story involves
a high tide), half chiding. And we would’ve believed it
remained firmly in that realm were it not for the ruined
home in front of us. Interviews with aggrieved merchants
churned out equally bizarre stories of disappearing gold,
all stemming from the storms that ripped through the
area. We seemed to be at a standstill until we spoke
with the woodcutter’s son, who’d evidently followed his
father into the forest one night. He reported watching
as the woodcutter tossed a coin and a large amount of
meat scraps into a hole in the ground before returning
home. The youth reported, quite specifically, saying this
father’s hands “glistened strangely, as if he’d dipped
them in honey.”
We took that lead and began to search the forest.
The blood-swollen insects and spiked seed pods the
size of my thumb left me with some sympathy for the
woodcutter—I too would have leapt at any means to
make my living other than felling trees in that miserable
place every day. It wasn’t long before Archivist Langbris,
the younger one, discovered a patch of oddly uniform
gravel. When we dug in, below the surface was a strange
ooze of moderate size, from which we recoiled. However,
upon observation, we discovered the miraculous source
of the money: the ooze created materials, rather than
destroyed them. Rather, it copied anything put into it.
Except for meat. Any biological material put in was used
to fuel the duplication.
The copies are remarkably detailed, and the ooze can
even replicate complex objects, such as weapons. While
testing however, we found there’s one fatal flaw with
these copies: they dissolve in water.
THE WALKER
It’s the adjacency to normalcy, the almost-right that can
cause the mind the most distress. An animal in the night
rising up to stand on two legs, the improper gait of a
shadow, or stretched features that don’t quite fit. The
Walker stalks among us, deep in the hearts of our largest
cities. Most pay no heed to those they pass in the light of
day. It’s only at night when we see what isn’t quite right,
when our bodies are attuned to the paranormal.
53
53
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
21551599
21551599
21551599
3559
435594
435594
