paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
21551642
21551642
21551642
3563
435637
435637
certain child in one of the island communities was
reportedly able to speak with sharks, and possibly other
marine predators, and persuade them to leave certain
fishing boats at peace. I had absolutely no desire to
address a casefile concerning not only the open ocean,
but also anomalously empowered marine predators, but
thankfully, Archivist Krayne proceeded to travel to the
community in question herself.
When she arrived, she found that someone else had a
similar idea—a local pirate lord had attacked the fishing
village, killed a fair number of the local inhabitants,
and kidnapped the child with the goal of using him to
control an armada of sharks, for some reason. Krayne
stole a fishing boat and set out in pursuit, catching up
with them not far from the Island of Empty Eyes in
the northern archipelago. There followed some highly
vigorous negotiations, and despite throwing several
pirates overboard, Archivist Krayne was eventually
outmaneuvered. It was at this point that, if I can read
her rather horrendous script correctly, both pirates and
Archivist noticed that the child had gone oddly quiet,
was bleeding from the eyes, and was writing something
in crimson tears upon the deck.
Whereupon, Archivist Krayne reports, they were
attacked by a monster. I suspect that Krayne may have had
a few drinks when she wrote this report, but in any case,
she writes that a hundred-foot shark with three heads and
tentacles overturned the pirate vessel. Krayne was able
to escape by means of clinging to a spar, but most of the
pirates were either drowned or devoured. She lost track
of the child, codenamed “Abyss,” in the chaos—perhaps
the boy drowned, but equally likely is that he fled atop his
pet sea monster. Krayne herself eventually washed ashore
on the Island of Empty Eyes and was marooned among
the cyclopes for a few weeks prior to building a raft and
returning to civilization.
TRAVELER
This file comes from the Terwa Uplands along the western
coast of Garund, not that far from the Shackles, as a matter
of fact. The subject is, at present, a middle‑aged dwarven
artisan working in Cloudspire, whose peculiar ability is
a form of astral travel. When Traveler sleeps, his mind
separates from his body and goes onto oneiric journeys—
at least some of which lead to real, if impossibly distant
lands. Initially, we were able to confirm that Traveler has
visited Irrisen, Shenmen, and the Crown of the World,
among other places.
Until discovered by Archivist Messerzeinig, Traveler
was unaware that these journeys were anything except
particularly vivid and inspirational dreams. These dreams
the Mbe’ke dwarf then proceeded to translate into
masterful works of iron and bronze-crafting, covering
fine plates or decorative urns with imagery drawn
from Jadwiga ceremonial dress and Lung Wa imperial
calligraphy. Archivist Messerzeinig first realized that
something was amiss when they were purchasing a set of
trade goods in Cloudspire that had certain Tien symbols
on them that would not normally be found so far from
Tian Xia. This investigation led them to Traveler, and
thus to the revelation of Traveler’s bizarre dreams.
Under Messerzeinig’s tutelage, Traveler began to push
his abilities further, traveling more frequently and more
distantly. After a few years, Traveler was able to leave
Golarion entirely, describing “a world strewn all in red
dust,” or “a place where night and day are countries to
be visited, not times, and all dwell in the dusk-dawn.”
Traveler and Messerzeinig’s reports became increasingly
fascinating, glimpses of distant shores. Then, rather
suddenly, they went silent.
Archivist Krayne stopped by to investigate on her way
back from the Abyss case in the Shackles. Traveler and
Messerzeinig were discovered dead in Traveler’s shop.
No signs of violence on their bodies, but for a look of
profound terror on their faces. One wonders what
Traveler saw, and what he told Archivist Messerzeinig.
THE GLUTTON
This gentleman first came to our attention as a sideshow
act on the Isle of Kortos. A young Absalomian man of
Thuvian heritage, Glutton had discovered at an early age
a curious set of powers. First, he could eat anything that
he could fit into his mouth. On stage, he happily devoured
twigs, whole eggs (shell and all), rocks, bullets, live mice,
and at the conclusion of his act, he drank a flask-full of
alchemical acid, all without the least sign of injury or
discomfort. Secondly, he could consume far more than
his body should be able to contain, and never seemed
to run into limits of gut or gorge. Finally, though this
particular talent Glutton was cautious about advertising,
he could unhinge his jaw and tear his cheeks in a manner
something like a viper and swallow a small rosebush in
one gulp.
The cost of this power was an endless, unceasing
hunger. Glutton’s appetite could not be sated, and
though he ate as much as six people, he still continuously
complained of hunger—and indeed, showed certain signs
of malnourishment, especially in the gaunt, loose-skinned
aspect of his figure.
In his act, Glutton claimed to be a former soldier.
Possibly accurate? At the very least, he wore a genuine
Thuvian military uniform, though the sideshow did
slather on a great deal of unnecessary gold braid. He was
cashiered out when he was found to be impossible to
feed, and took up with the sideshow as a way of getting
at least close to the food that he needed.
About a year ago, Glutton was accused of a particularly
heinous crime. A child had vanished from a small village
on the western slope of the island. Glutton, perhaps out of
guilt, or perhaps simply sensing the way that the wind was
blowing, promptly vanished, causing rumors to spread
that he had eaten the child. We were planning to dispatch
96
96
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
21551642
21551642
21551642
3563
435637
435637
