paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
21551663
21551663
21551663
35658
435658
435658
Introduction
The
Archivist’s
Training
Manual
The Stolen
Casefiles
Cryptids
Secret
Societies
Deviant
Abilities
Mirrors and
Imposters
Reflection
Versatile
Heritage
Hazards of
Perception
Alter Ego
Archetype
Lady of the
Harvest
Cults
Curses and
Pacts
Temporal
Anomalies
Mindscapes
Spell &
Item Lists,
Glossary &
Index
Dark
Archive
its apparent similarities to the Shadow and Ethereal
Planes, it resisted our efforts. Spells that let us breach the
barriers between planes simply failed to work. So, if not
a transitive plane, it must instead be another dimension,
or even—like the Dreamlands and Dimension of Time—
inapproachable via normal means of planar travel.
Another reality. Yet, where spells fail, other ways to
cross the barrier seem far easier. Those circles of light
Irabie noted appear to correspond to mirrors in our
reality, each one a potential portal to this strange realm
that lurks behind the glass.
Another extant mystery: is this Echoing Pale, like
some planes, evil in and of itself? If mirror twins emerge
from this formless void, shouldn’t—like a mirror—they
be an opposite? Evil replacing good, vice versa. But we
know any twin that arrives via a darkside mirror is
malevolent, regardless of whether it’s replacing a good
or evil person. Could this behavior be related instead to
the magic that creates a darkside mirror? Or perhaps
beings from the Echoing Pale willing to use such a device
are simply the malefactors of their realm? If the Echoing
Pale is evil, does it have any influence on “reflections”
that don’t come through the darkside mirrors? Some
we’ve encountered appear to have good intentions, but
perhaps they’re simply better at hiding their nature.
Do different kinds of darkside mirrors operate
in different ways? If so, what distinguishes their
classifications, and how can we tell which are connected
to the Echoing Pale? Perhaps they all are connected. Are
the tales of inverted realms more like our own plane
recounted by victims who found themselves in the
places beyond the Echoing Pale? Perhaps the Echoing
Pale connects us to multiple realities in a way that could
help explain some of the other unsolved cases involving
echoes of events that seemed to have never happened
(see the Imbricated Courier Incident).
I suspect two groups could give us more insight: the
jadwiga of Irrisen and shadowcallers of Nidal. Sadly,
neither group is known for its cooperation. Remember
the Heldren Freeze? We know from those events the
jadwiga ice witches use mirrors to communicate and
scry. The shadowcallers in Pangolais’s Dusk Hall
sacrifice body parts to create their own nightglass,
the reflective stone that summons shadow duplicates,
similar to documented reflections. Sometimes when
such summoning goes wrong, the entire shadowcaller
instead ends up replaced with a duplicate. It’s long been
thought that nightglass tapped into the Shadow Plane,
but what if some critical error instead connected them
to the Echoing Pale? More importantly, what if there
are far more of these reflections than known in those
countries? And if they prove to be mirrored—good
versions of their progenitors—what could that mean?
Might there be a hidden group of good reflections hiding
in those societies, just waiting for some inspiration to
reveal themselves?
A FALSE AND FRIENDLY FACE
As if the denizens of the Echoing Pale weren’t enough
reason for concern, there are similar creatures and
constructs across Golarion. Every society has its
impostors—fey pranksters, rakshasas in Vudra, kuwa oni
in Tian Xia, Azlant’s veiled masters, dragons—but they
typically “create” a new person and use their span of
years to build power. It’s easy to be cautious around a new
face, but few are suspicious of old friends—we wouldn’t
have survived Jaha’s Aeon Orrery without relying on
Arakag Star-Eyes. How much more monstrous to replace
a person and take their life in every sense of the words
(yes, some impostors take advantage of a long absence or
imprisonment, but typically something willing to steal a
life doesn’t scruple about murder). And they’ve no need
to create relationships, as those come already made.
Perhaps none are more infamous than doppelgangers,
which toy with their victims mercilessly. For some, gold
is the aim, but others delight in destroying lives simply
because they can. More recently, we’ve heard disturbing
news of these solitary monsters finding common cause
to deal with an existential problem: something appears
to be locking them into their forms. Disease? Poison?
Curse? Or is someone putting a stop to them? If it’s
just doppelgangers, we don’t need to worry, but what
if it spreads to other shapechangers? Several druids
in the forest of Kyonin have expressed such concerns
after encountering afflicted doppelgangers in Galt and
the River Kingdoms. They don’t want to be trapped as
animals or, worse, an unmoving tree.
And then there are the creations of magicians and
artisans that come to life, whether intentional or not.
Many of these reflections hate the person whose form
they share, and they don’t just try to claim their life,
but undo it. Is this some influence of the Echoing Pale?
Or simple jealousy or anger? If the latter, it’s certainly
understandable. We don’t blame a wasp for stinging
after its nest has been kicked. Recall the trompe l’oeil—a
creature painted into existence to be a spy, guardian,
assassin. Imagine the masterpiece stepping forth for
the first time from its canvas to discover it was created
not as art, but as a tool. Or if it emerges spontaneously
thanks to the natural magic invoked by the perfection of
its creator’s work, discovering it was never meant to live
at all: no mindless golem, this living sculpture becomes
a flesh and blood twin of their subject. Surely that must
breed resentment.
Thankfully, we didn’t see any such animosity in a
strange small village we encountered in Arcadia. The
villagers there seemed ordinary enough, except they
numbered 20 women who looked just like one another
and 17 men who were similarly identical. A span of ages,
but clearly the same person. No children to be seen. Our
explorations led us to a cliffside laboratory of one of
the owl-headed syrinx, where we found several more of
these villagers immersed in strange goo. Their description
117
117
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
paizo.com #36961784, Kevin Athey <drizztdn@gmail.com>, Sep 4, 2022
21551663
21551663
21551663
35658
435658
435658
