i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> F b 23 2023
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Feb 23, 2023
24868540
4425052
Bestiary 2
42
42
Bodak
When a living, sentient humanoid is exposed to an extreme expression of
supernatural evil, the experience can irrevocably damn the victim, crushing their
mind and ripping out their soul in an appalling, unholy transformation that results
in a creature that’s anathema to life—the bodak.
The shreds of physicality that survive this absolute corruption serve only to
enhance the humanoid’s profoundly disturbing appearance. The bodak’s body
is horriﬁcally twisted, as though it’s locked in a convulsion of agony and terror.
Its desiccated and hairless ﬂesh bears an otherworldly, pearlescent sheen, strung
taut across a malformed skeleton that reduces its gait to a slow shamble. But
most disturbing of all are its eyes, set in a
drooping, melted visage with scant remains of
its former facial structure. These eyes, sunken
deep into their sockets, nevertheless glow with an
unholy light, stare with unremitting malevolence,
and constantly weep noxious vapor.
Fragmented memories of a prior existence ﬁltered
through a vengeful hatred of the living lead the bodak to
try to return to those places it once knew. If successful,
it assaults former friends, acquaintances, and loved
ones with its murderous gaze and an incomprehensible
torrent of gibberish laced with vile curses, accusations, and
threats—an assault that often leads to the victims rising as
newly formed bodaks themselves.
BODAK
CREATURE 8
UNCOMMON
CE
MEDIUM
UNDEAD
Perception +17; darkvision, lifesense 60 feet
Languages Abyssal, Common
Skills Acrobatics +18, Athletics +15, Intimidation +19, Stealth +18
Str +3, Dex +4, Con +1, Int −2, Wis +5, Cha +5
AC 27; Fort +13, Ref +16, Will +19
HP 160, negative healing; Immunities death eﬀects, disease, paralyzed,
poison, unconscious; Weaknesses good 10
Sunlight Vulnerability If exposed to direct sunlight, the bodak can’t use
actions with the death trait and it becomes slowed 1. The slowed value
increases by 1 each time the bodak ends its turn in sunlight. If the bodak
loses all its actions this way, it is destroyed.
Draining Glance Ǻȓ (aura, death, necromancy, occult, visual) Trigger A living
creature within 30 feet that the bodak can perceive with its lifesense
starts its turn; Eﬀect The target must attempt a DC 23 Fortitude save. If
it fails, the bodak regains 5 Hit Points and the target becomes drained 1.
Speed 20 feet
Melee Ȱɵ ﬁst +18 (agile, ﬁnesse), Damage 2d6+6 bludgeoning plus 1d6 negative
Bodak Spawn (necromancy, occult) Any humanoid who dies while drained or doomed by
a bodak rises as an autonomous bodak 24 hours after its death.
Death Gaze ʚʖ (death, necromancy, occult, visual) The bodak stares at a living creature
within 30 feet that it can sense with its lifesense. That creature must attempt a
DC 26 Fortitude save. If the target becomes drained, the bodak gains a number of
temporary Hit Points equal to 5 times the value of the drained condition the target
gained. Multiple exposures to this ability can increase a creature’s drained condition
to a maximum of 4. If the bodak is destroyed, any doomed condition a creature has
gained from Death Gaze are removed.
Critical Success The creature is unaﬀected.
Success The creature is drained 1.
Failure The creature is doomed 1 and drained 2.
Critical Failure The creature is doomed 1 and drained 4.
BODAK CREATION
The rarity of the events that create
bodaks ensure that most of these
abominations were humanoids slain
by another bodak’s gaze. Yet bodaks
can also be brought into being by
a rare version of the create undead
ritual. This horriﬁc ritual emulates an
encounter of absolute, supernatural
evil, and so the spell must begin
when the subject is alive and located
on one of the evil Outer Planes.
i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> F b 23 2023
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Feb 23, 2023
24868540
4425052
