i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> F b 23 2023
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Feb 23, 2023
24868786
4425298
Bestiary 2
288
288
NON-EVIL UNDEAD
Void zombies are unusual in that
their animating negative force is
provided by a living parasite that
survives within their corpses,
controlling their nervous systems
for defense and to hunt food. As
such, the soul of a person who
succumbs to an akata’s void death
is not bound to its rotting corpse at
all and travels on to judgment in the
Boneyard unimpeded. Nevertheless,
most worshippers of Pharasma
and crusaders against undeath
still consider void zombies to be
anathema and ﬁght to destroy them.
Void Zombie
A void zombie arises when a humanoid dies from an akata’s void death afﬂiction
(page 13). This walking corpse is animated by a larval akata attached to the
deceased creature’s brain, using a grotesque feeding tendril that emerges from the
corpse’s mouth to drink blood from its victims.
A void zombie typically exists for only a few months before it collapses and
the larval akata crawls free from the motionless shell. When it feels the natural
end of its unlife approaching, a void zombie ﬁnds a secluded place to vomit
forth the nearly mature akata larva, then withers away. The disgorged larva
metamorphizes into a full-grown akata several hours later, usually eating the
corpse as its ﬁrst meal.
The name “void zombie” is something of a misnomer; though still compelled by
necromantic energies, a void zombie is a host in the life cycle of a parasitic alien,
not a mindless, reanimated corpse (despite their similar appearances). The fact that
a typical void zombie shares the neutral alignment of the larval akata
within, rather than the intrinsically evil nature of other zombies,
has caused some scholars to push to reclassify them under other
names. Suggestions have included “void dead,” “akata spawn,”
or “bloodwalker,” but the visceral and compelling commonplace
name has proven difﬁcult to shed.
The driving force behind a void zombie’s violence rises from
the ravenous hunger of the alien parasite that serves as the channel
for its animating negative energies. Necromancers have tried often
to duplicate the void zombie, but without a larval akata hosted
within, the result is simply a zombie with missing jaws or, at best,
one that moves faster than normal. Others have compared a
captive void zombie to a captive yellow musk thrall (page 301)
in an attempt to discover a potential link between the two—
after all, both are animated bodies controlled by a parasitic
outside force. Strangely, a void zombie becomes particularly
violent when encountering a yellow musk thrall, making direct
comparisons of the two creatures particularly difﬁcult, or even
dangerous. The fact that a void zombie, unlike a yellow musk
thrall, is actually undead may hold some clues as to the source of
this strange behavior.
VOID ZOMBIE
CREATURE 1
RARE
N
MEDIUM
UNDEAD
Perception +3; darkvision
Skills Athletics +6
Str +3, Dex −2, Con +2, Int −5, Wis +0, Cha −2
AC 13; Fort +7, Ref +3, Will +5
HP 26, negative healing; Immunities death eﬀects, disease, paralyzed,
poison; Weaknesses salt water 5, slashing 2
Salt Water Vulnerability Salt water acts as an extremely strong acid on
the larval akata inside the void zombie. Full immersion in salt water deals
4d6 acid damage per round. On any round in which the void zombie takes
damage due to its salt water weakness, the larval akata retreats to the depths
of the void zombie’s body, causing the void zombie to become slowed 1 until
the end of its next turn.
Speed 25 feet
Melee Ȱɵ ﬁst +8, Damage 1d6+3 bludgeoning
Melee Ȱɵ feeding tendril +6 (agile), Damage 1d4+3 piercing plus Feed on Blood
Feed on Blood Ȱɵ Requirements The void zombie’s previous action was a successful
feeding tendril Strike against the target creature; Eﬀect The void zombie uses its
feeding tendril to drain blood from the creature struck. The void zombie regains 4 Hit
Points, and the creature is drained 1 until it receives healing of any kind or amount.
i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> F b 23 2023
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Feb 23, 2023
24868786
4425298
