i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> F b 23 2023
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Feb 23, 2023
24868772
4425284
Bestiary 2
274
274
BUILDING A VRYKOLAKAS
Like vampires (Bestiary 318–321),
vrykolakas can infect victims with
their twisted form of vampirism,
transforming practically any living
monster into one of these undead
horrors. You can build a new
vrykolakas from the ground up
using the standard monster creation
rules, which were used to create
the vrykolakas spawn, vrykolakas
master, and vrykolakas ancient, or
you can use the guidelines presented
under Creating a Vrykolakas to
turn an existing creature (even a
player character!) into a vrykolakas,
adjusting the monster as you see ﬁt.
In either case, speciﬁc vrykolakas
abilities like negative healing, Feral
Corruption, and Drink Blood work
the same.
Vampire, Vrykolakas
Wicked and vengeful souls denied even the most basic burial rites can rise again as
vrykolakas, blood-drinking and plague-bearing reanimated corpses. They spread
suffering and death among all who cross their paths, punishing all who remind
them of those who failed to properly lay their bodies and souls to rest.
CREATING A VRYKOLAKAS
You can turn an existing living creature into a vrykolakas using the following steps.
Increase the creature’s level by 1 and change its statistics as follows.
•	 It gains the undead and vampire traits, and it becomes evil.
•	 Increase AC, attack modiﬁers, DCs, saving throws, and skill modiﬁers by 1.
•	 Increase Speed by 10 feet or to 40 feet, whichever results in a higher Speed.
•	 Increase damage with Strikes and other offensive abilities by 1. If an ability
can be used only a small number of times (such as a dragon’s Breath Weapon),
increase the damage by 2 instead.
BASIC VRYKOLAKAS AbILITIES
If the base creature becoming a vrykolakas has any abilities that speciﬁcally come
from it being a living creature, it loses them. It also loses any traits that represented
its life as a living creature, such as human and humanoid. You might also need to
adjust abilities that conﬂict with the vrykolakas’ theme. All vrykolakas gain the
following abilities.
Darkvision
Swift Tracker The vrykolakas moves at full Speed while Tracking.
Negative Healing
Immunities death eﬀects, disease, paralyzed, poison, sleep
Feral Corruption Ȳ˓ (curse, divine, incapacitation, mental, necromancy, possession)
Trigger The vrykolakas is reduced to 0 Hit Points, and an animal is within 100 feet;
Eﬀect Unlike most other undead, a vrykolakas isn’t destroyed when it reaches 0
HP. Instead, it attempts to cast its spirit into an animal within 100 feet, which must
attempt a Will save (use a high DC for the vrykolakas’s level from the Spell DC and
Spell Attack Roll table on page 66 of the Gamemastery Guide). On a failure, the animal
is possessed. This has the eﬀects of the possession spell, but it lasts a number of
days equal to the vrykolakas’s level. This possession can’t be counteracted with magic
(though remove curse works against it normally).
If the animal succeeds at its save, the vrykolakas can attempt to possess a diﬀerent
animal within 100 feet. If at any point an animal critically succeeds at its save or no
animal is within 100 feet, the vrykolakas fails to possess anything and is destroyed.
A vrykolakas possessing an animal seeks out its burial site (see Burial Site Bound
below) immediately, burying itself there. While the vrykolakas is in this state of recovery,
its animal host is paralyzed, and beheading it destroys the vrykolakas and kills its host.
Removing the curse destroys the vrykolakas and returns the animal to normal. After
1d4 days, if the vrykolakas hasn’t been destroyed, the animal dies and the vrykolakas
rises in a new body that’s identical to its previous one, formed from the animal’s remains.
Vrykolakas Vulnerabilities Vrykolakas all have the following vulnerabilities.
•	 Burial Site Bound A vrykolakas is bound to the place of its death or interment. It
must return to this location once per week and bury itself in the earth for 24 hours,
during which time it is paralyzed and can be beheaded. If it is unable to return to
this site, it is reduced to 0 Hit Points and attempts to use Feral Corruption; if this
host animal can’t return to the burial site before the possession eﬀect ends, the
vrykolakas is destroyed and the animal host returns to normal.
•	 Vulnerable to Decapitation A vrykolakas that is beheaded can’t use its Feral
Possession, and a beheaded corpse cannot rise as a vrykolakas.
Climb Speed A vrykolakas gains a climb Speed equal to one-half its land Speed.
Claws If the base creature had hands, it gains an unarmed claw Strike that deals slashing
damage and has the agile trait. Use the moderate damage for the creature’s level on
the Strike Damage table found on page 65 of the Gamemastery Guide.
i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> F b 23 2023
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Feb 23, 2023
24868772
4425284
