i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> F b 23 2023
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Feb 23, 2023
24868753
4425265
S-T
S-T
255
255
Introduction
A-C
D
E-G
H-K
L-N
O-R
S-T
U-Z
Appendix
STYGIRA GEMS
The gem a stygira carries does not
need to be particularly valuable,
but some stygiras prefer to use
more expensive gems as an
aﬀectation. More powerful stygiras
have developed methods of using
particularly expensive gems to
enhance their gem gaze ability,
allowing some to charm those they
gaze upon, light them on ﬁre, or even
aﬄict them with crippling poison.
Stygira
Withered hermits wrapped in tattered rags, these scarred, eyeless creatures
command strange secrets of the earth and interpret the fateful energies of the
subterranean depths. In some regions, stygiras are worshipped as seers or even
gods, although they lack the ability to grant spells to clerics and are often not aware
of their worshippers at all. In other areas, they have strange ties to the ancient
empires of the cyclopes, often dwelling in the oversized ruins those creatures left
behind long ago. To many stygiras, gemstones harvested from ancient cyclopean
mosaics have even greater magical properties than other crystals.
Although technically blind, stygiras do have vestigial eyes hidden beneath the
stony, scarred ﬂesh of their faces. Capable of sensing bright lights even through
their scars, stygiras are sickened and distracted by these ﬂashing glimpses, so
they keep to their caves during the day and
wander into the world above only after
nightfall. Far from benevolent, they seek out
unwary travelers or explorers to capture and
reduce them down to the base chemicals and
supernatural humors the stygiras require to
infuse gemstones with the capacity to give
them sight and magical power.
STYGIRA
CREATURE 7
LE
MEDIUM
EARTH
FEY
Perception +17; gemsight
Languages Aklo, Cyclops, Jotun, Terran
Skills Athletics +15, Deception +15, Gem Lore +17, Nature
+17, Occultism +17
Str +4, Dex +4, Con +5, Int +4, Wis +6, Cha +2
Items gemstone (worth 25 gp)
Gemsight As long as the stygira holds a gemstone, they can
see through the gem with darkvision and the eﬀects of true
seeing. The stygira is blind when they are not holding a gem
in a hand.
AC 26; Fort +15, Ref +13, Will +19; +1 status to all saves vs. magic
HP 80; Immunities paralyzed, petriﬁed, visual; Weaknesses cold iron 5;
Resistances physical 10 (except adamantine)
Light Sickness A stygira in an area of bright light is sickened 1.
Speed 25 feet
Melee Ȱɵ claw +17 (agile); Damage 2d6+10 slashing plus stone curse
Occult Innate Spells DC 25; 4th clairvoyance, read omens, shape stone; 3rd
clairaudience, earthbind; 2nd augury, undetectable alignment; Cantrips (4th)
know direction, read aura
Gem Gaze Ȱɵ (emotion, fear, mental, primal) The stygira holds aloft a gem and
gazes into the mind of a creature within 30 feet, infusing the creature’s
thoughts with visions of the creature’s own dead body slowly petrifying.
The creature must succeed at a DC 25 Will save or become frightened 1
(frightened 2 on a critical failure).
Stone Curse (curse, primal, transmutation) Wounds dealt by the stygira’s
claws leave the ﬂesh bleached of color and turn the blood that runs from
them dark gray. Each time a creature is damaged by the stygira’s claw
Strike, it must succeed at a DC 25 Fortitude save or become permanently
slowed 1 (slowed 2 on a critical failure) as its ﬂesh stiﬀens like stone. If
a creature is reduced to 0 Hit Points from the stygira’s claw Strike and
fails the saving throw against stone curse, it is petriﬁed. A creature
that spends 8 hours in direct sunlight can attempt a new saving
throw to remove the eﬀects of stone curse, even if it has
been petriﬁed.
i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> F b 23 2023
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Feb 23, 2023
24868753
4425265
