i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> F b 23 2023
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Feb 23, 2023
24868808
4425320
Bestiary 2
310
310
Spriggan Kin to gnomes, spriggans tend to be evil and can
grow in size to resemble giants.
Suli Sulis are planar scions descended from jann.
Swarm A swarm is a mass or cloud of creatures that functions
as one monster. Its size entry gives the size of the entire
mass, though for most swarms the individual creatures
that make up that mass are Tiny. A swarm can occupy the
same space as other creatures, and must do so in order to
use its damaging action. A swarm typically has weakness
to eﬀects that deal damage over an area (like area spells
and splash weapons). Swarms are immune to the grappled,
prone, and restrained conditions.
Sylph Sylphs are planar scions descended from djinn.
Tane The Tane are powerful creatures created eons ago by the
Eldest of the First World. All of the Tane treat whatever
plane they happen to be on as their home plane.
Time Time creatures are natives of the Dimension of Time.
They do not age, and while some may be driven by
supernatural hungers, they do not need to eat or drink to
survive. They can survive the basic environmental eﬀects
of the Dimension of Time.
Troll Trolls are giant, brutish creatures and are well known for
their ability to regenerate.
Undead Once living, these creatures were infused after death
with negative energy and soul-corrupting evil magic. When
reduced to 0 Hit Points, an undead creature is destroyed.
Undead creatures are damaged by positive energy, are healed
by negative energy, and don’t beneﬁt from healing eﬀects.
Undine Undines are planar scions descended from marids.
Urdefhan Urdefhans are humanoids who have pacts with
daemons, have transparent skin, and drink blood.
Vampire Undead creatures who thirst for blood, vampires are
notoriously versatile and hard to destroy.
Velstrac A family of ﬁends from the Shadow Plane that are
associated with pain and agony. All velstracs possess some
form of disturbing gaze.
Water Creatures with this trait are primarily constituted of
water or have a magical connection to the element.
Wight A wight is an undead creature that drains life and
stands vigil over its burial site.
Werecreature These shapechanging creatures either are naturally
able to shift between animal, humanoid, and hybrid forms or
are aﬄicted with a curse that forces them to shift involuntarily.
Wraith A wraith is an incorporeal undead creature infused
with negative energy and driven by a hatred of all life.
Weapon Traits
The bonuses from these weapons traits are included in
creatures’ statistics, but the traits appear because they’re
relevant for the clumsy and enfeebled conditions.
Brutal A ranged attack with this trait uses its Strength
modifier instead of Dexterity on the attack roll.
Finesse This melee attack is Dexterity based. Even if
a weapon normally has the finesse trait, this trait is
omitted in the Strike entry if the monster is applying
its Strength.
Rituals
Some creatures from the Outer Planes can use special
rituals to call their kin or transport themselves to another
plane. These are the rituals used by various creatures in
this book.
ABYSSAL PACT
RITUAL 1
UNCOMMON
CONJURATION
Cast 1 day
Primary Check Religion (expert; you must be a demon)
You call in a favor from another demon whose level is no
more than double Abyssal pact’s spell level, two demons
whose levels are each at least 2 less than double the spell
level, or three demons whose levels are each at least 3 less
than double the spell level.
Critical Success You conjure the demon or demons. They
are eager to pursue the task, so they don’t ask for a favor.
Success You conjure the demon or demons. They are not
eager to pursue the task, so they require a favor in return.
Failure You don’t conjure any demons.
Critical Failure The demon or demons are angry that
you disturbed them. They appear before you, but they
immediately attack you.
ANGELIC MESSENGER
RITUAL 1
UNCOMMON
CONJURATION
Cast 1 day
Primary Check Religion (expert; you must be an angel)
You transport yourself to either a celestial plane or a world
on the Material Plane where worshippers of your patron
can be found. You must be of no higher level than double
angelic messenger’s spell level.
Critical Success As success, but if you’ve never visited that
plane or world before, you appear right in front of the
message’s intended recipient.
Success You arrive on the target plane or world at the
last location you visited on that plane or world, or to a
random location within 10d10 miles of your message’s
intended recipient if you’ve never visited that plane or
world before.
Failure You don’t travel.
Critical Failure You accidentally travel to the wrong plane,
possibly a dangerous plane.
i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> F b 23 2023
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Feb 23, 2023
24868808
4425320
