i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> F b 23 2023
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Feb 23, 2023
24868542
4425054
Bestiary 2
44
44
BROWNIE BARGAINS
As they are not a monolithic group
of fey and often have their own
proclivities, it’s sometimes hard to
predict what might attract a brownie
or ensure their aid. One of the more
commonly thought gifts is a saucer
of milk or cream, though brownies
seem to enjoy other edible treats.
Some farmers have reported success
in leaving shiny but inconsequential
knickknacks like buttons, polished
and painted stones, smoothed glass,
thimbles, or silver ﬂatware. The
whims of some brownies shift, so
someone who wants to retain the
services of a brownie should vary
the gifts they leave for these elusive
fey creatures.
Brownie
Brownies make their homes in the trunks of hollow trees, small earthy burrows,
and even under porches or within the crawl spaces of farmhouses. Often attired in
clothes that appear to be made of plants or leaves, brownies wear belts lined with
pouches and tools. Whatever language they choose to speak is often is riddled
with odd pronunciations and colloquialisms. Their manner of speaking might
call upon turns of phrase that are decades or even centuries out of vogue, for
example, or they might mix up their metaphors in strange ways. It almost seems
as if brownies adopt these quirky ways of speaking intentionally—certainly they
do not react favorably to corrections to their chatter. There’s often no swifter way
to annoy a brownie than to try to correct its grammar. Brownies stand barely 2
feet tall and weigh about 20 pounds.
When facing danger, brownies rarely engage in combat, preferring instead to
confound and confuse their attackers in order to buy enough time for escape.
Content with honest toil and the love of their kin, brownies maintain a paciﬁst
nature, harassing creatures only to run them off or punish them for an insult.
Despite this nature, all brownies carry a blade. They refer to their swords with a
hint of disgust, and jokingly call their blades their “ﬁnal trick,” reserving their use
for the direst of circumstances.
Honest to a fault, brownies take freely but always repay their debt through
work or leave something behind as an offering. They may eat an apple from
a farmer’s orchard but harvest the entire tree as repayment. A brownie might
eat an entire pie left on a windowsill, only to straighten up the kitchen or wash
the dishes. A brownie can share a home with a family for years and years while
avoiding detection. A family that is aware of a brownie in their midst usually ﬁnds
this a beneﬁcial relationship and leaves dishes of milk, pieces of fruit, trinkets, and
sometimes even wine as gifts. In exchange, the resident brownie keeps the home
clean, mends clothes, repairs tools, and shoos away vermin and small predators.
Bragging about having a brownie in the house is the best way to lose one.
Brownies distrust foxes and fear wolves, and they avoid farms with dogs.
BROWNIE
CREATURE 1
N
TINY
FEY
Perception +7; low-light vision
Languages Common, Elven, Gnomish, Sylvan
Skills Acrobatics +7, Crafting +5, Deception +6, Stealth +9
Str –2, Dex +4, Con +1, Int +2, Wis +4, Cha +3
Items shortsword
AC 16; Fort +4, Ref +9, Will +9
HP 25; Weaknesses cold iron 3
Speed 20 feet
Melee Ȱɵ shortsword +7 (agile, ﬁnesse), Damage 1d6
Primal Innate Spells DC 17; 4th dimension door (self only); 3rd mending; 1st
ventriloquism; Cantrips (4th) dancing lights, prestidigitation
Baﬄing Bluﬀ ʚʖ (emotion, enchantment, mental, primal) The brownie’s
antics can confuse and disorient a creature. When the brownie uses
Baﬄing Bluﬀ, it targets a single creature within 30 feet; that creature must
attempt a DC 17 Will save. The target is temporarily immune to Baﬄing Bluﬀ
for 1 minute.
Critical Success The target is unaﬀected.
Success The target is fooled momentarily and is ﬂat-footed against the
next melee Strike the brownie makes against it before the end of
the brownie’s next turn.
Failure The target is confused for 1 round.
Critical Failure The target is confused for 1 minute. It can
attempt a new save at the end of each of its turns to end the
confused condition.
i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> F b 23 2023
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Feb 23, 2023
24868542
4425054
