i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> F b 23 2023
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Feb 23, 2023
24868656
4425168
Bestiary 2
158
158
POTS OF GOLD
While it’s true that leprechauns
typically return items they steal,
they particularly love gold and often
hoard gold coins and treasures in
pots tucked away in hidden places.
It’s rumored that a person who ﬁnds
a gold coin in the forest and returns
it to the leprechaun who dropped it
will be granted a wish as a reward.
Unfortunately, this rumor is false—a
deception perpetrated by leprechauns
to trick others into bringing them even
more gold for their pots.
Leprechaun
Leprechauns are mostly jovial tricksters who prefer mischief over conﬂict. They
ﬁll their days with as much fun, wine, and food as possible. Mostly found in
forested regions, leprechauns respect nature and those who protect it.
Leprechauns do not attack on sight. Rather, they engage in conversation and
try to charm, cajole, or trick those they meet into doing favors for them or freely
giving over a treasured item, usually in return for illusory wealth or false promises
of wealth and success. These small tricksters are masters at discerning the desires of
those they meet—a knack that puts them in a powerful position when bargaining
for goods or favors. They aren’t above turning people against each other for their
own beneﬁt but generally not to an extent that causes harm.
In most cases, a leprechaun doesn’t keep a purloined possession for long. The
leprechaun most often returns such stolen prizes just in time to defuse tensions,
often as they point out the humor of the situation, hoping to share their amusement
and mirth with the victim. In cases where a leprechaun’s trick goes too far and
results in an incensed victim, the leprechaun quickly ﬂees the conﬂict rather
than engage in combat. This willingness to return stolen goods or to ﬂee from
battles fades as leprechauns grow older. Ancient leprechauns who have lived for
thousands of years often spiral into dark bitterness and increasingly use their
powers and illusions to lure those who offend them or fail to appreciate a
joke into danger... or even death.
LEPRECHAUN
CREATURE 2
CN
SMALL
FEY
Perception +11; low-light vision
Languages Common, Sylvan
Skills Acrobatics +8, Deception +9, Gold Lore +7, Nature +7,
Performance +9, Thievery +8
Str +1, Dex +4, Con +1, Int +3, Wis +3, Cha +4
AC 18; Fort +8, Ref +11, Will +10
HP 25
Speed 30 feet
Melee Ȱɵ club +7, Damage 1d6+3 bludgeoning
Primal Innate Spells DC 18, attack +10; 2nd illusory
creature, illusory object, invisibility (self only);
1st color spray, shillelagh, ventriloquism;
Cantrips (2nd) dancing lights, ghost
sound, mage hand, prestidigitation,
telekinetic projectile
Create
Object
ʚʖ
(conjuration,
manipulate, primal) Frequency three
times per day; Eﬀect The leprechaun
produces an item out of their hat,
from behind their jacket, from within
a hole in a tree stump, or from any other
unexpected location. This conjured item must be no more than 1 Bulk
and must be made of relatively commonplace material (such as cloth,
wood, stone, or even low-value metal like iron or lead). It can’t rely on
intricate artistry or complex moving parts, never fulﬁlls a
Cost or the like, and can’t be made of precious materials
or materials with a rarity of uncommon or higher. The
created object is temporary and lasts for 1 hour or
until the leprechaun creates a new item, whichever
comes ﬁrst.
Leprechaun Magic When a leprechaun uses their innate spells
to deceive, trick, or humiliate a creature, the spell DC
increases to 20 and the attack modiﬁer to +11.
i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> F b 23 2023
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Feb 23, 2023
24868656
4425168
