i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> F b 23 2023
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Feb 23, 2023
24868584
4425096
Bestiary 2
86
86
BRINE DRAGON SPELLCASTERS
Brine dragon spellcasters tend to
cast the following spells.
YOUNG
Primal Prepared Spells DC 26,
attack +20; 3rd haste, lightning
bolt, slow; 2nd animal messenger,
humanoid form, water breathing; 1st
create water, grease, negate aroma;
Cantrips (3rd) acid splash, detect
magic, prestidigitation, sigil, stabilize
ADULT
Primal Prepared Spells DC 33, attack
+26; as young brine dragon, plus 5th
cone of cold, control water, mariner’s
curse; 4th freedom of movement,
hallucinatory terrain, solid fog;
Cantrips (5th) acid splash, detect
magic, prestidigitation, sigil, stabilize
ANCIENT
Primal Prepared Spells DC 38, attack
+33; as adult brine dragon, plus 8th
dispel magic, horrid wilting; 7th energy
aegis, plane shift, regenerate; 6th
baleful polymorph, slow, true seeing;
Cantrips (8th) acid splash, detect
magic, prestidigitation, sigil, stabilize
Dragon, Primal
The strange and otherworldly primal dragons hail from realities adjacent to the
Material Plane—the four Elemental Planes and the Shadow Plane. These true
dragons have natures and powers that exemplify their plane of origin and an
afﬁnity for primal magic, unlike chromatic and metallic dragons, who favor
arcane or divine magic. Although they come from distant planes, primal dragons
can be found on the Material Plane in regions touched by or reminiscent of their
home plane. Although such encounters are rare, adventurers and travelers have
sometimes found a brine dragon dwelling near a salty inland sea, for example,
or a crystal dragon living in massive natural caverns deep in the Darklands.
Unlike chromatic and metallic dragons, primal dragons tend not to develop
shape-changing powers, and they are less interested in inﬁltrating settlements or
inﬂuencing others from the shadows.
PRIMAL DRAGON SPELLCASTERS
Each type of primal dragon features a note in the margins on spellcasting dragons of
that type. To make a primal dragon spellcaster, remove the dragon’s Draconic Frenzy
and Draconic Momentum abilities and give it the spells outlined in its sidebar. You
can swap out any number of these with other primal spells, provided you keep the
same number of spells for each level. You might also want to increase the dragon’s
Wisdom or Charisma modiﬁer by 1 or 2 to reﬂect their mastery of magic.
PRIMAL DRAGONS OF GOLARION
Golarion is not home to many primal dragons. Yet primal dragons do still come to
Golarion now and then, whether to escape persecution in their home plane, build
new lairs, torment and brutalize weaker creatures, or seek knowledge and resources
that are scarce or unavailable at home.
Brine dragons can be found along Golarion’s coastlines but are often frustrated
by piracy and other lawless elements. They tend to avoid heavily populated
coastal areas like the Shackles and instead choose remote islands in the oceans as
their homes, where they can rule small communities of their own curation. Cloud
dragons are even more isolated, and lacking any interest in politics, they prefer
to dwell in large mountain ranges like the Kodars or the Barrier Wall. Crystal
dragons’ vanity compels them to seek places that complement their natural
beauty, such as gem-studded caverns in the Darklands. Of all the primal dragons,
cantankerous magma dragons may be the ones most often found dwelling on
Golarion, where they are drawn to volcanic ranges like the Five Kings Mountains.
Umbral dragons hail not from an Elemental Plane but the Shadow Plane, and they
can be encountered anywhere the borders to that plane grow thin, particularly in
the sinister nation of Nidal.
BRINE DRAGON
Brine dragons are usually blue-green in color, with shiny scales, crests that help
them glide through the water, and sweeping neck frills. They care little for either
good or evil. As they are both opinionated and willing to impose their sense of order
on others, many brine dragons eventually seek to rule over a meticulously crafted
community. These communities are orderly and well-planned, with rigid standards
of courtesy and unchanging laws set down by the dragon themself. A settlement
seeded by a brine dragon can be made of members of almost any ancestry, but the
most common inhabitants are humans, merfolk, tengus, or sahuagin.
Depending on the dragon’s personality, their community members might view
their brine dragon ruler as anything from a benevolent force of order to a fearful
tyrant. Regardless, the typical brine dragon has little patience for kindness or
philanthropy, and the strength and health of their settlement as a whole are of
greater concern than individuals’ well-being. A notable exception to this dispassion
rises when an outside force encroaches on their lands. In these cases, the brine
dragon is quick to step in and aid in the defense of their community.
i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> F b 23 2023
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Feb 23, 2023
24868584
4425096
