i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> F b 23 2023
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Feb 23, 2023
24868776
4425288
Bestiary 2
278
278
AGENTS OF EMPTY DEATH
Vampiric mists are linked to the
will-o’-wisp, another notorious
swamp-dwelling, vaporous predator,
in that both of these entities are
often encountered in areas where
the Outer God Nhimbaloth has
brushed close to the world. Often,
the wounds on a corpse fed upon by
a vampiric mist bear Nhimbaloth’s
mark: a cluster of seven perfectly
spaced punctures through which the
victim’s blood has been drained.
Vampiric Mist
Though they’re often mistaken for vampires in gaseous form or an unusual type
of air elemental, vampiric mists are in fact strange aberrant life-forms. With an
amorphous body that consists as much of ﬂuid as it does of air, these creatures
dwell in swamps or moist underground regions where their vulnerability to heat
isn’t as much of a concern. Still, they prefer to lair near the fringes of such areas,
as a vampiric mist needs a constant supply of fresh blood for sustenance. While
blood drawn from animals is just as nutritious as blood from anything else, these
sadistic monsters vastly prefer the ﬂavor of blood drawn from thinking creatures.
Like will-o’-wisps, vampiric mists ﬁnd that fear ﬂavors the blood, though they
gain no particular advantage by feeding on the frightened.
Although somewhat intelligent, vampiric mists do not form societies. They
sometimes group into small gangs, but even then they show little interest in working
together. Vampiric mists spend most of their time seeking prey—a pursuit they
approach with great creativity. The mists’ propensity for taking on vague, skeletal
forms of the creatures whose blood they drink further adds to their mystique and
fuels rumors that they have connections to the undead. Indeed, many vampiric
mists enjoy using this common misconception
to their advantage, leading foes to apply foolish
tactics—such as tricking spellcasters
into attempting to use positive
energy against them as if they
were undead monsters.
VAMPIRIC MIST CREATURE 3
NE
MEDIUM
ABERRATION
Perception +9; darkvision, sense
blood (imprecise) 60 feet
Languages Aklo
Skills Acrobatics +10, Stealth +10
Str –5, Dex +5, Con +3, Int –1, Wis +2, Cha +0
Misty Form A vampiric mist’s body is composed of a semisolid red mist similar in
consistency to thick foam. This enables a vampiric mist to move through spaces as
narrow as 1 inch in diameter with no reduction to its Speed. However, a vampiric
mist can’t wear or interact with objects. It also can’t enter water or other ﬂuids, and
it’s treated as Tiny for the purpose of how wind aﬀects it.
Sense Blood A vampiric mist can sense creatures that have blood within 60 feet.
It can sense exposed blood within a mile.
AC 18; Fort +8, Ref +12, Will +9
HP 35; Immunities precision; Weaknesses ﬁre 5; Resistances
physical 5
Speed ﬂy 40 feet
Melee Ȱɵ misty tendril +10 (agile, ﬁnesse), Damage 2d6 slashing
damage plus 1d6 persistent bleed damage and blood siphon
Blood Siphon When a vampiric mist damages a creature with a misty tendril Strike,
the creature must attempt a DC 20 Fortitude save. If the Strike was a critical hit, the
outcome of the creature’s save is one degree worse than the result of the saving throw.
Any temporary Hit Points the vampiric mist gains from Blood Siphon fade after 1 hour.
Success The creature is unaﬀected.
Failure The creature is drained 1, and the vampiric mist gains 5 temporary
Hit Points.
Critical Failure The creature is drained 2.
The vampiric mist gains 10 temporary
Hit Points and takes on an intense red
until the end of its next turn. During this time,
it gains a +2 status bonus to AC and saves and is
quickened. It can use its extra action only to Strike.
i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> F b 23 2023
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Feb 23, 2023
24868776
4425288
