i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> F b 23 2023
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Feb 23, 2023
24868602
4425114
Bestiary 2
104
104
D’ziriak
These strange creatures are native to the Plane of Shadows, where their colorful
nature is in opposition to that realm’s overwhelmingly monochromatic palette.
Averaging 7 feet in height, d’ziriaks have four arms, two legs, and a termite-
like abdomen. The larger pair of arms, used for most tasks, have ﬁve‑ﬁngered
hands with sharp, insectile claws. The smaller pair of arms are reserved for ﬁne
manipulations and are not effective in combat.
D’ziriaks’ otherwise dull brown carapaces are decorated with numerous
runes glowing in bright colors. These tattoo-like runes indicate an individual’s
role in d’ziriak society, and set them apart from their home plane’s other native
inhabitants. The runes glow with natural bioluminescence, and d’ziriaks can make
them ﬂare brightly for an instant, at the expense of overstressing the biochemical
glands that create and maintain the runes for an extended time. The color and
shape of the runes are partially natural, but can be shaped and customized
carefully over time to ﬁt the individual’s station.
The D’ziriak language is a mix of buzzes and chitters, and is spoken by few
other creatures. D’ziriaks prefer to communicate with other species using telepathy
rather than endure the sound of their language being “butchered by ﬂeshy
throats.” D’ziriaks organize into hive cities led by a king and queen. These
hive cities consist of impressive spires, yet these towers are only the foremost
part of the settlement, with many more chambers reaching deep below for
residences, workshops, and fungus farms. D’ziriak settlements are lit inside
and out with alchemical and magical light sources, often in the shapes of
runes. These dimly glowing towers provide travelers with landmarks, and
perhaps promise safe havens, on the otherwise gloomy Shadow Plane.
D’ZIRIAK
CREATURE 3
N
MEDIUM
ABERRATION
SHADOW
Perception +10; darkvision
Languages D’ziriak, Shadowtongue; telepathy 100 feet
Skills Arcana +8, Athletics +6, Occultism +10, Stealth +10, Survival +8
Str +1, Dex +3, Con +1, Int +1, Wis +3, Cha +4
AC 19; Fort +6, Ref +12, Will +10
HP 45
Glow (aura, light) 20 feet. The colorful runes that decorate a d’ziriak’s
body create dim light. The natural bioluminescence is specially
adapted to the Shadow Plane, able to overcome magical darkness
as if it were magical light of the d’ziriak’s level.
Speed 25 feet
Melee Ȱɵ claw +12 (agile, ﬁnesse), Damage 1d10+4 piercing
Occult Innate Spells DC 19; 7th plane shift (self only, to Shadow
Plane only)
Dazzling Burst ʚʖ (light, visual) The d’ziriak causes its body
to ﬂare with intense colorful light. Non-d’ziriaks in a 20-foot
emanation must attempt a DC 20 Fortitude save. After using this
ability, the d’ziriak loses its glow for 24 hours; during this time it can’t use
Dazzling Burst again. A creature that attempts this save is immune to all
Dazzling Bursts for 1 minute.
Critical Success The creature is unaﬀected.
Success The creature is dazzled for 1 round.
Failure The creature is dazzled for 1 minute.
Critical Failure The creature is blinded for 1 round and dazzled for 1 minute.
Double Claw Ȱɵ Frequency once per round; Eﬀect The d’ziriak makes
two claw Strikes. If both hit the same creature, combine their
damage for the purpose of resistances and weaknesses. This
counts as two attacks for the d’ziriak’s multiple attack penalty,
and the penalty doesn’t increase until after both attacks.
LIGHT WEAVERS
The masters of the d’ziriaks’
light‑weaving craft are occult
practitioners, almost always sorcerers
of the aberrant bloodline. Light
weavers prefer spells that provide
light or create magical writing. In their
hive cities, light weavers create art,
lighting, signage, and magic wards.
They also use their light weaving for
entertainment and education.
i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> F b 23 2023
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Feb 23, 2023
24868602
4425114
