i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> F b 23 2023
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Feb 23, 2023
24868578
4425090
Bestiary 2
80
80
COMPSOGNATHUS FAMILIARS
Appropriate familiar abilities for
a compsognathus familiar include
climber, damage avoidance, fast
movement, kinspeech, manual
dexterity, scent, or speech. A
compsognathus familiar who can
talk tends to do so in a rapid voice,
with plenty of questions as a result
of its eager curiosity. Note that while
dinosaurs aren’t technically all the
same species, you should consider
allowing a compsognathus with
kinspeech the ability to speak to any
dinosaur rather than limiting it to
only fellow compsognathuses.
Dinosaur
Dinosaurs encompass a staggering range of creatures, from tiny but still
dangerous scavengers like the compsognathus to lumbering giants like the
ravenous spinosaurus to ornery herbivores like iguanodons. Often sought out
and partially domesticated to serve as exotic pets for eccentric aristocrats or
dangerous guardians for those eager to protect their holdings with frightening
but tamable creatures, dinosaurs are far from limited to lurking in primeval
“lost worlds.”
COMPSOGNATHUS
The compsognathus is a small bipedal dinosaur that moves in swift, darting
motions. Its bite injects a venom that causes numbness and weakness, a trait that
the animal uses to bring down larger prey, although it prefers to scavenge food or
snatch up insects and other smaller creatures for its meals. The compsognathus
is curious to a fault; most encounters that result in combat with these diminutive
dinosaurs result not from the creatures’ hunger but from frightened defensive
reactions when the dinosaurs’ inquisitive natures compel them to enter into
situations (such as wagons or bedrolls) that inadvertently put them at odds with
surprised adventurers.
A compsognathus measures 3 feet long from its head to the tip of its tail and
weighs 15 pounds. It is small enough to serve as a house pet or even as a familiar
for a spellcaster. In cases where magical links aren’t involved, however, those
encountering or keeping the creatures would be well-advised to treat them with
the same caution one might extend to a pet viper or other poisonous reptile, as
they are at best partly tame.
COMPSOGNATHUS
CREATURE –1
N
TINY
ANIMAL
DINOSAUR
Perception +5; low-light vision, scent (imprecise) 30 feet
Skills Acrobatics +6, Stealth +6
Str +0, Dex +3, Con +2, Int –4,
Wis +2, Cha –2
AC 15; Fort +4, Ref +7,
Will +4
HP 8
Speed 30 feet, swim 15
feet
Melee Ȱɵ jaws +7 (agile,
finesse),
Damage
1d6
piercing plus compsognathus
venom
Compsognathus Venom (poison)
Saving Throw DC 16 Fortitude;
Maximum Duration 4 rounds; Stage 1 1d6 poison damage and enfeebled 1
(1 round); Stage 2 1d8 poison damage and enfeebled 1 (1 round)
PACHYCEPHALOSAURUS
Pachycephalosauruses are normally peaceful herbivorous dinosaurs, but they grow
much more violent during their mating season, when they ﬁght one another to win
over mates and warn away interlopers. They also defend themselves vehemently
when potential predators stray too close to their herd. The pachycephalosaurus’s
skull has a distinctive dome-shaped crown surrounded by numerous blunt, bony
horns. This feature, combined with the dinosaur’s powerful, compact neck, allows
it to make battering-ram-like charges capable of inﬂicting great damage.
Some humanoid groups have successfully trained pachycephalosauruses for use
as mounts, but the creatures aren’t particularly well suited to the task.
Pachycephalosauruses grow to a length of 15 feet and weigh 1,400 pounds.
i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> F b 23 2023
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Feb 23, 2023
24868578
4425090
