i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> F b 23 2023
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Feb 23, 2023
24868675
4425187
L-N
L-N
177
177
Introduction
A-C
D
E-G
H-K
L-N
O-R
S-T
U-Z
Appendix
NATURAL WARNINGS
Regions haunted by bog mummies
lack small animals, insects, and
other wildlife. A character who is
Investigating, Searching, or Scouting
during exploration mode can attempt
a secret Nature check against the
bog mummy’s Stealth DC to notice
something sinister. A critical success
is enough to speciﬁcally suggest the
presence of undead in the area.
Mummy, Bog
The cultural practice of mummifying the dead is not the only way a body can
become preserved, nor is it the only route that gives rise to these disease-spreading
undead monstrosities.
Bog mummies (also called peat mummies or mire mummies) rarely, if ever,
leave their marshy realms. Less powerful than their more notorious artiﬁcially
preserved kin, bog mummies are preserved not by agents introduced during rituals
but by the natural elements present in the airless, acidic morass of a peat bog or
muddy swamp. While corpses preserved in this manner can certainly rise from
the mire as bog mummies as the result of a curse by fell powers or the directed
inﬂuence of a necromancer, the vast majority of them animate from a seething
need for vengeance or to pursue some dire agenda left unﬁnished at the time of
death—often because the creature was slain or otherwise betrayed. The nature of
this emotional tie to life and the emotional power of the deceased compel unlife
beyond death, while the preservative qualities of the bog within which the body
was disposed of does the rest.
Although most bog mummies are motivated by vengeance, many fulﬁll their
dark yearnings with general violence. Filled with wrath and hatred for the
living, they mercilessly attack any living creatures that dare to venture into
their dismal domains. Their agonized moans echo over their putrid homes,
driving away most natural life dwelling therein and often alerting travelers to
the potential danger that lies beneath the surface.
BOG MUMMY
CREATURE 5
LE
MEDIUM
MUMMY
UNDEAD
Perception +12; darkvision, tremorsense (imprecise) 30 feet
Languages Common, Necril
Skills Athletics +12, Stealth +11 (+13 while buried in a bog)
Str +5, Dex +2, Con +0, Int +0, Wis +1, Cha +0
AC 21; Fort +13, Ref +9, Will +14
HP 85, negative healing; Immunities death eﬀects, disease,
paralyzed, poison, unconscious; Weaknesses cold 5; Resistances
ﬁre 5
Breath of the Bog (aura, divine, enchantment, mental) 30 feet.
A creature that begins its turn within the area feels as if its
lungs were ﬁlling with water and must succeed at a DC 19 Fortitude save or
be unable to speak or breathe. The creature can still hold its breath and
can attempt a new saving throw at the end of its turn. A creature that
succeeds is temporarily immune to breath of the bog for 24 hours.
Rise Up Ǻȓ Trigger A creature walks on top of a bog mummy that lies
buried in the mud or peat below; Requirements Initiative has not
yet been rolled; Eﬀect The bog mummy automatically notices
the creature and Burrows before rolling initiative.
Speed 20 feet; burrow 15 feet
Melee Ȱɵ ﬁst +14, Damage 2d6+5 plus bog rot
Bog Rot (curse, disease, divine, necromancy, negative)
This aﬄiction can’t be reduced below stage 1, nor can
the damage from it be healed, until it’s successfully
treated with remove curse or a similar eﬀect;
the aﬄiction can then be removed as normal
for a disease. A creature killed by bog rot
melts into a noxious sludge and can’t be
resurrected except by a 7th‑level resurrect
ritual or similar magic; Saving Throw DC
21 Fortitude; Stage 1 carrier with no ill
eﬀect (1 minute); Stage 2 3d6 negative
damage and clumsy 1 (1 day)
i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> F b 23 2023
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Feb 23, 2023
24868675
4425187
