i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> F b 23 2023
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Feb 23, 2023
24868725
4425237
O-R
O-R
227
227
Introduction
A-C
D
E-G
H-K
L-N
O-R
S-T
U-Z
Appendix
EXCEPTIONS TO EVIL
While most undead are evil, revenants
are not—these unusual stalkers rise
not out of a sense of cruelty or hatred
of the living, but spontaneously from
the need for vengeance following
a deep betrayal. One can avoid a
revenant’s wrath by simply getting
out of its way—unless you happen to
be its reason for unlife!
Revenant
Revenants are obsessed, undead stalkers who arise from their own murders and
are driven by only one thing: revenge against their killers. The common wisdom
is that revenants arise only from individuals who have been utterly betrayed or
abandoned to die a grueling death, but even then such victims might not rise
from their graves. In other cases, revenants might even rise from what might
legitimately be considered an accident if the revenant doesn’t understand the full
circumstances of their demise. In such cases, it doesn’t matter that the “murderer”
may not have intended to kill, for revenants understands no pity and can never
forgive. Revenants have little memory of their lives other than anything they
might need to recall in order to achieve their goal of vengeance.
REVENANT
CREATURE 6
LN
MEDIUM
UNDEAD
Perception +14; darkvision, sense murderer
Languages any one spoken in life by their murderer (typically Common)
Skills Athletics +15, Intimidation +14
Str +5, Dex +3, Con +4, Int +0, Wis +3, Cha +2
Sense Murderer (divination, occult, scrying) A revenant knows the
direction of their murderer (as long as both are on the same plane), but
not the distance.
AC 23; Fort +14, Ref +13, Will +17
HP 115, negative healing; Immunities death eﬀects, disease,
paralyzed, poison, sleep; Resistances physical 5 (except slashing)
Self-Loathing (emotion, mental, visual) If a revenant sees their own
reﬂection or any object that was important to them in life, they
must attempt a DC 25 Will save.
Critical Success The revenant is unaﬀected and can no
longer be aﬀected by that reﬂection or object in this way.
Success The revenant is distracted by self-loathing and
becomes slowed 1 for 1 round.
Failure The revenant becomes fascinated by the source that triggered
their self-loathing and does everything they can to destroy it until the end of
the revenant’s next turn.
Critical Failure The revenant becomes immobilized as long as the source of their
self-loathing is apparent, until they’re attacked, or until they see their murderer.
Undying Vendetta (emotion, necromancy, occult) If the revenant’s murderer
dies, the revenant is immediately destroyed. A revenant that can’t sense their
murderer must attempt a DC 11 ﬂat check once every 24 hours to avoid becoming
immobilized and prone; they immediately rise again once they can sense their
murderer. A murderer who becomes undead does not trigger the revenant’s
destruction until the murderer is ﬁnally destroyed. The revenant gains a +2
status bonus to checks and DCs against their murderer.
Speed 25 feet
Melee Ȱɵ claw +17 (agile), Damage 2d8+5 slashing plus Grab
Baleful Shriek ʚʖ (auditory, emotion, fear, incapacitation, mental) The revenant
wails horribly. Each creature within a 60-foot burst must attempt a DC 23
Will save. Regardless of the outcome of their saving throw, aﬀected creatures
are then immune to Baleful Shriek for 1 hour. The revenant’s murderer never
improves their degree of success due to this ability’s incapacitation trait. The
revenant can’t use Baleful Shriek again for 1d4 rounds.
Critical Success The creature is unaﬀected.
Success The creature is frightened 2.
Failure The creature is frightened 2 and paralyzed for 1 round.
Critical Failure The creature is frightened 3 and paralyzed for
1d4 rounds.
Constrict Ȱɵ 2d6+5 bludgeoning, DC 24
i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> F b 23 2023
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Feb 23, 2023
24868725
4425237
