i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> F b 23 2023
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Feb 23, 2023
24868680
4425192
Bestiary 2
182
182
NEREID SHAWLS
A nereid’s shawl has Hardness 1
and 4 Hit Points (BT 2). If the shawl
is broken, it no longer grants the
amphibious trait. If it’s destroyed, it
melts away into water, and the nereid
who created it becomes doomed 1
and drained 1. These conditions
values increase by 1 every 2d6 hours
thereafter until it creates a new shawl.
Nereid
Nereids are aquatic fey with deep ties to water. They share some similarities with
naiads, but they are not guardians and do not bind themselves to a speciﬁc body
of water. Although they are primarily aquatic creatures, their unique ability to
imbue their vitality into a supernatural shawl allows them to travel on land as
well. A nereid must be careful when manifesting a shawl, however, as their life
essence is bound to it, so it can be stolen or destroyed to threaten the nereid.
Nereids prefer to exist in isolation. Left to their own devices, they avoid combat,
but when forced to ﬁght, their ability to transform the natural waters in their ﬂesh
into poison serves them as well as any weapon.
Often, ignorant sailors lump all water-dwelling fey into a single category of
“aquatic tempters,” regardless of the fey’s type or gender, using these creatures’
names interchangeably to represent the concept of a beautiful ﬁgure who exists to
lure mortals to a drowning death. Whereas naiads have more patience and
often seek to educate the ignorant regarding the harm that stereotypes can
cause, nereids and rusalkas have little patience for such methods. Rusalkas
are the primary source for the legends of fey preying upon sailors, and nereids
loathe them for that, as they prefer to live apart from humanity and enjoy the
beauty of the natural world in peace.
When a nereid learns of a rusalka’s increased activity, it often seeks
out the rusalka to route them—not so much out of an urge to protect
humanoids (in whom nereids traditionally have little interest), but to
prevent the rusalka from inadvertently riling up violent responses from
humanoids who can’t be bothered to note the difference between a
murderous fey and one who just wants to be left alone.
NEREID
CREATURE 10
CN
MEDIUM
AQUATIC
FEY
WATER
Perception +20; low-light vision
Languages Aquan, Common, Sylvan
Skills Athletics +12 (+18 to Swim), Deception +20, Diplomacy +22, Stealth +22
Str +0, Dex +7, Con +5, Int +3, Wis +5, Cha +7
AC 30; Fort +16, Ref +22, Will +18
HP 175; Immunities poison; Weaknesses cold iron 10
Watery Transparency
(primal,
transmutation,
water)
When
underwater, the nereid’s body is invisible. The nereid can dismiss or
resume this transparency as an action that has the concentrate trait.
Speed 25 feet, swim 50 feet
Melee Ȱɵ poisonous touch +23 (agile, ﬁnesse, magical), Damage 6d6 poison
Primal Innate Spells DC 29; 6th summon elemental (water elementals only); 5th
control water, elemental form (×3, water only) 4th suggestion
Drowning Touch ʚʖ (conjuration, incapacitation, primal, water) The nereid touches
a creature and causes water from its own body to ﬂow into the creature’s lungs. If
the creature cannot breathe water, it must attempt a DC 29 Fortitude save.
Success The creature is unaﬀected and is temporarily immune to Drowning Touch for
24 hours.
Failure The creature becomes sickened 3 as it chokes on the water.
Critical Failure The creature chokes on the water and runs out of air. It falls unconscious
and starts drowning (Pathﬁnder Core Rulebook 478). If the creature is above water, it
recovers from drowning as soon as it succeeds at a saving throw against suﬀocation.
Manifest Shawl ̂ˬ (conjuration, primal) The nereid divests themself of part of their
connection to the First World and imbues this essence into a ﬂowing shawl that enables
them to function on land. The nereid can Dismiss this eﬀect as long as they are touching
the shawl. As long as the shawl exists, the nereid gains the amphibious trait. A non-
nereid who carries the shawl also gains the amphibious trait. If a
nereid’s shawl is destroyed rather than Dismissed, the nereid can’t
Manifest a Shawl for 24 hours.
i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> F b 23 2023
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Feb 23, 2023
24868680
4425192
