i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> F b 23 2023
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Feb 23, 2023
24868807
4425319
309
309
Introduction
A-C
D
E-G
H-K
L-N
O-R
S-T
U-Z
Appendix
the fetchling ancestry. Fetchlings were once human,
but generations of life on the Shadow Plane have
transformed them.
Fey Creatures of the First World are called the fey.
Fiend Creatures that hail from or have a strong connection
to the evil-aligned planes are called ﬁends. Fiends can
survive the basic environmental eﬀects of planes in the
Outer Sphere.
Fire Creatures with this trait are primarily constituted of ﬁre
or have a magical connection to that element.
Fungus Fungal creatures have the fungus trait. They are
distinct from normal fungi.
Ghoul Ghouls are vile undead creatures that feast on ﬂesh.
Giant Giants are massive humanoid creatures.
Gnome A creature with this trait is a member of the gnome
ancestry. Gnomes are small people skilled at magic who
seek out new experiences and usually have low-light vision.
Golem Golems are a special type of construct. Golems are immune
to almost all magic, but most have a weakness to certain spells.
Gremlin Cruel and mischievous fey, gremlins have acclimated
to life on the Material Plane.
Grippli Gripplis are a family of froglike humanoids.
Human A creature with this trait is a member of the human
ancestry. Humans are a diverse array of people known for
their adaptability. An ability with this trait can be used or
selected only by humans.
Humanoid Humanoids reason and act much like humans. They
typically stand upright and have two arms and two legs.
Ifrit Ifrits are planar scions descended from efreet.
Incorporeal An incorporeal creature or object has no physical
form. It can pass through solid objects, including walls.
When inside an object, an incorporeal creature can’t perceive,
attack, or interact with anything outside the object, and if it
starts its turn in an object, it is slowed 1. Corporeal creatures
can pass through an incorporeal creature, but they can’t end
their movement in its space.
An incorporeal creature can’t attempt Strength-based checks
against physical creatures or objects—only against incorporeal
ones—unless those objects have the ghost touch property rune.
Likewise, a corporeal creature can’t attempt Strength-based
checks against incorporeal creatures or objects.
Incorporeal creatures usually have immunity to eﬀects
or conditions that require a physical body, like disease,
poison, and precision damage. They usually have resistance
against all damage (except force damage and damage from
Strikes with the ghost touch property rune), with double
the resistance against non-magical damage.
Inevitable These constructed aeons were created by the
axiomites. Each type of inevitable is dedicated to a speciﬁc
task. Most inevitables have weakness to chaotic damage.
Leshy Leshys are small, roughly humanoid plant creatures.
Magical Something with the magical trait is imbued with
magical energies not tied to a speciﬁc tradition of magic.
A magical item radiates a magic aura infused with its
dominant school of magic.
Some items or eﬀects are closely tied to a particular
tradition of magic. In these cases, the item has the arcane,
divine, occult, or primal trait instead of the magical trait.
Any of these traits indicate that the item is magical.
Mindless A mindless creature has either programmed or
rudimentary mental attributes. Most, if not all, of their mental
ability modiﬁers are –5. They are immune to all mental eﬀects.
Monitor Creatures that hail from or have a strong connection
to the neutrally aligned planes are called monitors. Monitors
can survive the basic environmental eﬀects of planes in the
Outer Sphere.
Morlock Morlocks are a family of pale, underground-dwelling
humanoids who, generations ago, were regular humans.
Mummy A mummy is an undead creature created from a
preserved corpse.
Mutant The monster has mutated or evolved, granting it
unusual beneﬁts, drawbacks, or both.
Negative Creatures with this trait are natives of the Negative
Energy Plane. They can survive the basic environmental
eﬀects of the Negative Energy Plane.
Oni Oni are a family of ﬁends who dwell on the Material Plane
and take monstrous forms based on humanoid shapes.
Ooze Oozes are creatures with simple anatomies. They tend
to have low mental ability scores and immunity to mental
eﬀects and precision damage.
Oread Oreads are planar scions descended from shaitans.
Petitioner Petitioners are mortal souls who have been judged
and then transformed into creatures native to other planes.
Petitioners can survive the basic environmental eﬀects of
their home plane.
Plant Vegetable creatures have the plant trait. They are
distinct from normal plants.
Positive Creatures with this trait are natives of the Positive
Energy Plane. They can survive the basic environmental
eﬀects of the Positive Energy Plane.
Protean A family of monitors spawned within the Maelstrom,
these creatures are guardians of disorder and are chaotic
neutral. They typically have darkvision, an amorphous
anatomy, and a weakness to lawful damage.
Psychopomp A family of monitors spawned within the
Boneyard to convey souls to the Outer Planes, most
psychopomps are true neutral. They typically have
darkvision, lifesense, and spirit touch, and they are immune
to death eﬀects.
Qlippoth A family of ﬁends hailing from the Abyss, most
qlippoth are chaotic evil. Their appearance aﬀects the
minds of non-qlippoth that view them.
Serpentfolk Serpentfolk are a family of serpentine humanoids.
Shadow Creatures with this trait are natives of the Shadow
Plane. They can survive the basic environmental eﬀects of
the Shadow Plane.
Skulk Skulks are a family of humanoids whose skin can shift
coloration to aid in stealth.
Sonic A creature with this trait has a magical connection to
powerful sound.
Soulbound These constructs are mentally augmented by a
fragment of a once-living creature’s soul.
Spirit Spirits are ephemeral creatures deﬁned by their spiritual
essence. They often lack a material form.
i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> F b 23 2023
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Feb 23, 2023
24868807
4425319
