i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> F b 23 2023
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Feb 23, 2023
24868670
4425182
Bestiary 2
172
172
INHUMAN MURDERERS
While it’s true that most mohrgs
seem to rise from the corpses of
humanoid killers, the capacity to
murder is not limited to humanoids.
Mohrgs of other sorts could certainly
exist—as long as they come from a
society that has the capacity not
only to judge and execute, but also to
harbor murder within their hearts.
Mohrg
The weight of murder wears heavy on the soul. With souls marked by a lifetime
of dealing death, these killers, whether mass murderers, bloodthirsty soldiers, or
sadistic executioners, sometimes do not let judgment and lawful execution stanch
their slaying sprees. When such individuals are brought to justice, they may rise
after death as mohrgs to continue their ruinous work.
Drawn to others of their kind, mohrgs prefer to hunt in small groups, occasionally
in partnership with weaker free-willed undead such as shadows and wights. They
seek out weak prey and revel in causing drawn-out suffering. Some mohrgs haunt
locations they favored in life, reenacting old crimes on new victims. They may even
skulk about in public, wearing rags, cloaks, or freshly harvested skins to hide their
nature. The most dangerous mohrgs are those who grow powerful enough to no
longer fear being struck down again and openly assault settlements in an attempt to
turn living towns into mass graves.
Since those slain by a mohrg rise soon thereafter as mohrg spawn, the murders of
a mohrg rarely go unnoticed for long, even when they take extra care to prey only
on a society’s dregs. Since mohrg spawn remain under a mohrg’s control, a canny
mohrg might order its spawn to remain in hiding to keep its presence secret until a
point where it feels conﬁdent unleashing its undead army upon a doomed settlement.
Mohrgs retain a twisted sentimentality for the crimes of their mortal life, seeking
out trinkets that remind them of favorite murders. When not out hunting,
mohrgs arrange their mementos into disturbing shrines. Often, these trinkets are
valuable objects, and might even provide important clues to ongoing mysteries.
MOHRG
CREATURE 8
CE
MEDIUM
UNDEAD
Perception +17; darkvision
Languages Common, Necril
Skills Acrobatics +16, Athletics +18, Intimidation +19, Society +15, Stealth +18
Str +6, Dex +4, Con +4, Int +1, Wis +3, Cha +5
AC 28; Fort +18, Ref +16, Will +13
HP 120, negative healing; Immunities death eﬀects, disease, paralyzed, poison,
unconscious; Resistances piercing 10, slashing 5
Mohrg Spawn (occult, necromancy) A living creature slain by a mohrg
that had a lower level than the mohrg rises as a mohrg spawn after
1d4 rounds, on its turn. This mohrg spawn is under the command
of the mohrg that created it. If the creator of the mohrg spawn
is destroyed, the mohrg spawn is destroyed as well, immediately
collapsing into a pile of decayed ﬂesh and bones.
Speed 25 feet
Melee Ȱɵ claw +20, Damage 2d10+9 slashing plus Grab
Melee Ȱɵ tongue +20 (agile), Eﬀect paralysis
Paralysis (occult, incapacitation, necromancy) A living creature hit by a mohrg’s tongue
Strike must succeed at a DC 26 Fortitude save or become paralyzed. The creature can
attempt a new save at the end of each of its turns, and the DC cumulatively decreases
by 1 on each attempt.
MOHRG SPAWN
When a creature returns after death as a mohrg spawn, its ﬂesh decays away save
for its entrails, and it grows a long, awful tongue. The creature gains the undead
trait and becomes chaotic evil, and it loses any abilities that come from it being a
living creature. It gains darkvision, negative healing, and the mohrg’s immunities
and resistances. If the creature had hands, it gains a claw Strike (an unarmed attack
that deals slashing damage). The creature also gains a tongue Strike, an agile attack
that causes paralysis, as the mohrg ability; the Fortitude save uses the DC for the
mohrg spawn’s level (Pathﬁnder Core Rulebook 503). Mohrg spawn cannot
create mohrg spawn of their own.
i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> F b 23 2023
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Feb 23, 2023
24868670
4425182
