i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> F b 23 2023
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Feb 23, 2023
24868750
4425262
Bestiary 2
252
252
REDEEMED SPRIGGANS
A spriggan’s nature is rooted
deeply in its inability to feel joy
and pleasure, and as such, non-evil
spriggans are rare. Yet they are not
unheard of. A spriggan who manages
to turn back on their inherent
nature loses their ability to assume
enormous size, and always becomes
a hated (if not feared) exile from
their clan. Such a spriggan never
fully transforms into a gnome, but
those who embrace redemption often
discover strange new powers waiting
for them to master, such as the
ability to draw upon the First World
to heal themselves and allies, or the
power to transform into actual fey
creatures for a short period of time.
Spriggan
When the gnomes ﬁrst emigrated from the First World so many eons ago, some
found the Material Plane so strange and terrifying that they lost their sense
of joy. Seeing only the threat of the new world and none of its wonders, these
gnomes grimly resolved to survive no matter what the cost. Their innate magic
responded to this goal by twisting them in mind and body over the course of
many generations, eventually transforming them into the creatures known today
as spriggans.
Love, happiness, and beauty have no meaning for nearly all spriggans, for
their minds have long since abandoned the capacity to understand and enjoy
such positivity in the world. Violence, malice, and distortion have expanded in
spriggan society to ﬁll the aching voids left behind by their ancient expunging of
positivity. Today, the best a spriggan can manage in place of positive emotions is
a muted satisfaction when they make another creature suffer.
Spriggans resemble muted, hairless gnomes with oversized, pointed ears and
an alien, feral appearance. Many of them are gaunt and haggard. Skin tones vary
across all different shades of blue, from a pale sky color to a deep midnight.
Unlike their more cheerful and optimistic kin, spriggans do not become afﬂicted
by the bleaching, a fact that many of their kind smugly hold up as proof that
their ancestors’ choice to abandon joy was the right one.
While spriggans can specialize in a wide range of skills, one feature they all
share is the capacity to transform into lumbering, hulking incarnations of their
normally small frames. By drawing upon the void left behind in their souls,
they reﬂect the anger and cruelty in their minds and physically transform into
giant versions of themselves akin to ogres in stature; however, this rage-induced
change takes a toll on their bodies. The longer a spriggan remains in giant form,
the more pain and agony they have waiting for them when, inevitably, they
revert to their true size. Yet this promise of pain does not deter a spriggan from
using their power to grow in size, for it’s only when they assume gargantuan
proportions that they can truly feel joy and satisfaction. That spriggans feel these
emotions only when they are bullying smaller creatures, ﬁghting enemies (or
even allies), or inﬂicting pain on victims speaks to the depths of their corruption.
SPRIGGAN BULLY
The typical spriggan is a bully who prefers to take live prisoners in ﬁghts, but
only to ensure that they have a large stock of living victims to torment, tease, and
abuse. They train to use weapons in nonlethal ways that inﬂict the maximum
amount of pain even as they guard against accidental death. When not bullying
prisoners or hunting for new victims, spriggan bullies enjoy drinking, watching
others ﬁght, and ﬁghting among themselves.
SPRIGGAN BULLY
CREATURE 3
CE
SMALL
GNOME
HUMANOID
SPRIGGAN
Perception +10; low-light vision
Languages Aklo, Common, Gnome
Skills Acrobatics +9, Athletics +8, Intimidation +10, Society +8, Stealth +11, Survival +10,
Thievery +9
Str +3, Dex +4, Con +2, Int +1, Wis +3, Cha +1
Items crossbow (10 bolts), morningstar
AC 19; Fort +9, Ref +11, Will +8
HP 48
Enraged Growth Ǻȓ (polymorph, primal, transmutation) Trigger The spriggan bully takes
damage; Eﬀect The spriggan bully grows to Large size, along with their equipment
(which returns to natural size if removed). The spriggan bully’s reach increases by 5
feet. They regain 5 Hit Points and gain a +2 status bonus to melee attacks and damage
rolls. This eﬀect continues until the end of the spriggan bully’s next turn, but on any
turn in which the spriggan bully deals damage to another creature and is not fatigued,
i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> F b 23 2023
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Feb 23, 2023
24868750
4425262
