i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> F b 23 2023
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Feb 23, 2023
24868632
4425144
Bestiary 2
134
134
GREMLIN MINIONS
Most know better than to employ
gremlins, so when the fey creatures
live side-by-side with others, it’s often
as parasites and unwelcome guests.
Imaginative and sinister folk who ﬁnd
themselves infested sometimes catch
the gremlins and release them in the
homes of their enemies.
Gremlin
The mischievous fey known as gremlins seem to come in endless varieties with
differing appearances. Preferring to destroy rather than to build, gremlins almost
never construct their own homes, instead infesting tunnels and abandoned buildings.
They augment these lairs with cruel traps, and sometimes trained animals (often
ones considered pests by humanoids). Gremlin lairs are generally near a city or
village (whether on the surface or in the Darklands) that provides them with a ready
source of food, trap-building materials, and, of course, victims for entertainment.
There is little difference in appearance between male and female gremlins, and
many observers wrongly assume that they are single-gender or genderless. Gremlins
are proliﬁc breeders, and a handful can quickly become a mob. Young gremlins are
raised communally—a necessity, as they exhibit the urge to cause mischief from
birth. They grow quickly and reach full size in a matter of weeks.
VEXGIT
These gremlins are covered head-to-toe by a crustacean-like exoskeleton that
clacks and rattles whenever a vexgit moves. They delight in sabotaging the
works of other creatures, often turning these works into dangerous traps. An
individual vexgit might jam a door lock, loosen the wheels on a carriage, or
remove nails from a boat hull. Buildings infested by vexgits become ﬁlled
with traps like portcullises descending suddenly, water pipes exploding
violently, and clock towers disgorging an avalanches of gears.
Aware of their own physical weakness, vexgits carry hammers and
other tools to leverage pieces apart or smash whatever they’re unable
to disassemble. Indeed, a hammer sized for a human becomes a
maul in the tiny hands of a vexgit.
Vexgit infestations range from one to a score. Larger
groups are often led by a more powerful vexgit with
additional skill in thievery or primal magic. Trained
giant rats, vipers, and rat swarms are common in
vexgit lairs.
VEXGIT
CREATURE 1
LE
TINY
FEY
GREMLIN
Perception +6; darkvision
Languages Undercommon
Skills Acrobatics +7, Athletics +6, Crafting +6 (+8 traps), Nature +6, Stealth +5 (see
clacking exoskeleton), Thievery +7
Str +1, Dex +4, Con +2, Int +1, Wis +1, Cha +0
Items maul
Clacking Exoskeleton A creature that can hear gains a +2 circumstance bonus
to its Perception DC against a vexgit’s attempts to Sneak.
AC 16; Fort +5, Ref +9, Will +6
HP 24; Weaknesses cold iron 2
Speed 20 feet, climb 20 feet
Melee Ȱɵ maul +8 (shove), Damage 1d12+1 bludgeoning plus
Destructive Smash
Melee Ȱɵ bite +11 (agile, ﬁnesse), Damage 1d6+1 piercing
Primal Innate Spells DC 17; 1st alarm; Cantrips (1st) prestidigitation
Destructive Smash A vexgit’s maul Strike against an object deals
ignores up to 5 of the object’s Hardness.
Gremlin Snare ̂ˬ (conjuration, primal) Frequency once per
hour; Eﬀect The vexgit creates a snare of their level or
lower that normally takes 1 minute to craft at no cost.
A single vexgit can maintain one gremlin snare at
a time—if they create a new snare, the previously
created one vanishes.
i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> F b 23 2023
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Feb 23, 2023
24868632
4425144
