i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> F b 23 2023
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Feb 23, 2023
24868682
4425194
Bestiary 2
184
184
NORN TRIUMVIRATES
Norns who visit the Material Plane
often do so in groups of three
known as triumvirates. The norns
of a triumvirate can communicate
with each other telepathically over
a planetary distance. Regardless of
their appearance on the First World,
when a norn becomes part of a
triumvirate on the Material Plane,
her apparent age shifts so that in
each group, there always appears to
be one young adult norn, one middle-
aged norn, and one elderly norn—a
Maiden, a Mother, and a Matriarch.
Norn
Ancient beyond imagining, norns are powerful fey women who hold in their
hands the physical manifestation of fate and destiny in the form of golden thread.
They watch over all life, intervening with reluctance when called upon—or with a
vengeance when the strands of fate are twisted and abused by lesser beings.
Norns’ relationship with the Eldest of the First World is complex. Many among
norns serve Magdh the Three, the triune Eldest who some norns believe to be the
ﬁrst norn triumvirate bound together into one entity, as Magdh has three bodies:
a Maiden, a Mother, and a Matriarch. Magdh claims to be watching the threads
of fate for some ominous prophesied cataclysm, and in addition to assisting in
her divinations, Magdh expects the norns who serve her to follow her cryptic
commands to help nudge the future away from the brink. However, norns are
powerful beings in their own right, themselves capable of granting divine power,
and many balk at serving the enigmatic demigod. These norns ﬁnd the other Eldest
even more alien and challenging to interact with, for they believe that while the
Eldest wield great power, even these powerful beings should not be granted leave
to meddle with fate as much as they desire.
While even the weakest of the Eldest could destroy an unafﬁliated norn with
ease, they tend to obey the proclamations and judgments of norns when they are
spoken. These norns, for their part, use their perceived neutrality judiciously. They
know better than to issue too many demands to the Eldest, lest the capricious
demigods grow frustrated and tired of norns’ interference. And so the balance of
power remains tenuous between unafﬁliated norns and the Eldest, as it has for
eons. However, norns know that it’s merely a matter of time before the Eldest
lose their respect for this tradition and start acting entirely as they please, despite
norns’ best efforts to rein in their most disruptive actions.
A norn stands 14 feet tall and weighs 800 pounds.
WORSHIPPING NORNS
On the Material Plane, some mortals worship norns as deities, while others,
especially witches and bards, admire them as patrons or muses. Those who
uphold norns as deities are known as Followers of Fate. Norns do little to
discourage this veneration, but neither do they go out of their way to support
such worship. Clerics who venerate norns might worship a speciﬁc norn or norn
triumvirate, or all norns as a whole, but they gain the same beneﬁts regardless
of their choice. The religious symbol of Followers of Fate is a pair of shears
cutting a golden thread, and their areas of concern are destiny, fate, and the
aging process.
FOLLOWERS OF FATE (LN)
Edicts make predictions of the future, oﬀer advice and guidance to those in positions of
power, provide comfort to the elderly
Anathema apologize for making an incorrect prediction, disrespect mothers, accept
payment for fortune-telling
Follower Alignments LG, LN, LE
Divine Font harm or heal
Divine Skill Occultism
Favored Weapon shears (These uncommon simple weapons cost 5 sp, deal 1d4 slashing
damage, have light Bulk, and require one hand to use. Shears are in the knife weapon
group. They have the deadly d8, ﬁnesse, and versatile P traits.)
Domains family, fate, knowledge, truth
Cleric Spells 1st: mindlink, 2nd: web, 5th: prying eye
NORN
CREATURE 20
RARE
LN
LARGE
FEY
Perception +41; detect magic, greater darkvision, lifesense 120 feet, true seeing
Languages Common, Jotun, Sylvan; tongues
i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> F b 23 2023
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Feb 23, 2023
24868682
4425194
