i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> F b 23 2023
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Feb 23, 2023
24868681
4425193
L-N
L-N
183
183
Introduction
A-C
D
E-G
H-K
L-N
O-R
S-T
U-Z
Appendix
BOG NIXIES
Nixies who dwell in swampy regions
tend to have fouler attitudes and
are more eager to turn to violence.
Known as bog nixies, these evil fey
prefer dwelling in festering swamps
or blighted fens and delight in using
their ability to grant desires to tempt
visitors into acts of unplanned evil.
Nixie
These aquatic fey often guard ponds, rivers, lakes, and springs, protecting their
bucolic homes from the advances of predators and careless humanoids alike.
Nixies tend to be reclusive and try to keep their presence hidden from humanoids,
hoping trespassers won’t give them cause to act. Stories of minor miracles granted
by nixies to those they befriend encourage humanoids to seek out these reclusive
fey, and ironically make it even more unlikely for a nixie to grant such a boon.
On the other hand, if someone approaches a nixie with respect, or even better,
a positive attitude that displays just the right amount of humility and easygoing
openness, a nixie is far more likely to respond positively to any requests for aid.
Often a nixie will ask those who seek their assistance to perform a task for them
ﬁrst; such requests can be minor acts of entertainment (such as telling a rousing
story or performing a requested song), but in other cases the nixie might need more
signiﬁcant aid, such as driving off an unwanted local predator or investigating the
source of pollution near their home.
Nixies resort to violence only if no other tactic works. They much prefer
solutions that rely upon primal magic to defuse conﬂicts before they can escalate
to bloodshed. In pursuit of such resolutions, nixies rely on their ability to charm
individuals and, when they can establish magical inﬂuence, encourage intruders to
leave peacefully. While some nixies try to confuse intruders and subtly guide them
from the area, others use local animals and beasts to scare off trespassers.
Occasionally, nixies recruit charmed humanoids to act as protectors or
help with a task that is simply too big for them to deal with. If this task is
underwater, nixies use their magic to temporarily grant the ability to breathe
water to the charmed creature. Only those who manage to befriend a nixie are
given invitations to return to swim or dine with the fey, and only the most
trusted of allies are granted a minor wish.
Nixies appear as aquatic humanoids the size of a child, with large eyes,
catﬁsh-like whiskers, and webbed ﬁngers and toes. They have scaly skin,
pointed ears, and long hair the color of seaweed. Nixies often form small
communities, even building underwater societies if their numbers are great
enough. In many cultures’ folklore, there are stories of nixie nations hidden
at the bottom of particularly large lakes.
NIXIE
CREATURE 1
N
SMALL
AQUATIC
FEY
Perception +6; low-light vision
Languages Aquan, Sylvan
Skills Athletics +6, Nature +5, Stealth +8
Str +0, Dex +3, Con +1, Int +0, Wis +1, Cha +4
Wild Empathy The nixie can use Diplomacy to Make an Impression
on and make very simple Requests of aquatic or amphibious
animals.
AC 16; Fort +6, Ref +10, Will +6; +1 status to all saves vs. magic
HP 25; Weaknesses cold iron 3
Speed 20 feet, swim 30 feet
Melee Ȱɵ claw +7 (agile, ﬁnesse), Damage 1d6 slashing
Primal Innate Spells DC 17, attack +9; 2nd water breathing; 1st
charm (×3), hydraulic push
Grant Desire ̂ˬ (divination, primal) Frequency once
per day; Eﬀect The nixie can duplicate any 1st-level
spell or produce any eﬀect with a power level in
line with a 1st-level spell, but only in response to
the request or desire of a non-fey creature. The
creature whose desire is granted can never
again beneﬁt from that particular nixie’s Grant
Desire ability.
i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> F b 23 2023
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Feb 23, 2023
24868681
4425193
