i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> F b 23 2023
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Feb 23, 2023
24868555
4425067
A-C
A-C
57
57
Introduction
A-C
D
E-G
H-K
L-N
O-R
S-T
U-Z
Appendix
THE CURSE OF CRAWLEY JACK
The damnable curse of the culdewen
traces back to the First World, when
a bitter old culdewen named Crawley
Jack poached a ﬁsh from the pool
of a powerful fey noble. Short of
temper and feeling vindictive, the
noble doomed Crawley Jack’s people
to never consume another ﬁsh again.
Yet their desire to eat ﬁsh never
diminished. The curse’s punishment
is exacted in endless creative ways.
A culdewen’s catch might be rescued
by merfolk, stolen by skum, eaten
by nipping sharks, or carried away
on a piece of driftwood when the
culdewen’s boat is destroyed in a
storm or shipwreck.
Culdewen
Perpetually cursed to hunger and failure, a culdewen plies waterways in search of
appealing ﬁsh to catch—the bigger the better. Of course, this diminutive, emaciated
fey calls every living creature a “ﬁsh.” Only other fey are exempt, and they tend
to consider culdewens lost causes. A culdewen can never ﬁnd satisfaction. Each
time they catch a ﬁsh, a magical curse forces them to hunt for an appealing spot
to dine—an island, cove, or abandoned dock or shack where they can eat in peace.
By the time they arrive, their catch will be gone. Every time. Forever.
A foul mood hovers over a culdewen, causing them to swear colorfully, smack
things with their oar, and shake their tiny ﬁsts at the sky. Conversation with a
culdewen is fruitless, as they talk in circles, speaking only of ﬁshing and the weather.
Capturing a “ﬁsh” gives a culdewen a rare moment of happiness; the culdewen
capers and ululates, pleased with their catch, and rushes off to their boat.
CULDEWEN
CREATURE 7
CE
SMALL
AMPHIBIOUS
FEY
Perception +15, low-light vision
Languages Aquan, Common, Sylvan
Skills Athletics +16, Deception +16, Intimidation +14, Nature +12, Sailing Lore +14,
Stealth +15, Survival +16
Str +4, Dex +5, Con +1, Int –1, Wis +2, Cha +4
Items ﬁsh hook, oar (functions as mace)
Culdewen’s Curse (curse, enchantment, primal) A culdewen that captures a creature is
compelled to immediately retreat to a secluded place to eat, typically journeying by
boat. The travel to the secluded place always takes at least 1 day. Their captive is cursed
to vanish on the journey—typically being lost in the water or consumed by aquatic
creatures—and can be recovered only by a wish spell or similarly powerful magic.
AC 25; Fort +14, Ref +18, Will +13; –2 status to all saves vs. curses
HP 105; Weaknesses cold iron 5
Speed 40 feet, swim 40 feet
Melee Ȱɵ ﬁsh hook +17 (trip), Damage 2d10+7 piercing
plus hooked
Melee Ȱɵ oar +17 (shove), Damage 2d6+7 bludgeoning
Ranged Ȱɵ ﬁsh hook +18 (thrown 30 feet), Damage
2d10+7 piercing plus hooked
Hooked A creature struck by the culdewen’s ﬁsh hook is
skewered, taking 1d4 persistent bleed damage as long as
the hook remains stuck in it. The ﬁsh hook can be removed
only if a creature spends an Interact action and succeeds at a
DC 25 Athletics check to pull it free.
Land the Fish Ȱɵ Requirements A creature is hooked by the
culdewen’s ﬁsh hook and adjacent to the culdewen; Eﬀect The
culdewen hoists the creature over their shoulder, as though it
weighs no more than a ﬁsh. Unless the creature is unable to
act, the culdewen must attempt an Athletics check against the
creature’s Fortitude DC. On a success, the creature is restrained by the culdewen.
While hoisting a creature, the culdewen gains a +20-foot status bonus to their
Speeds and is compelled to escape with it (see culdewen’s curse above).
Reel In Ȱɵ (manipulate) The culdewen pulls the rope attached to their hook. If they
have no creature hooked, the ﬁsh hook returns to the culdewen’s hand. If a creature
is hooked, the culdewen attempts an Athletics check against the creature’s Fortitude
DC, pulling it up to 30 feet closer on a success (60 feet on a critical success).
Swear Ȱɵ (auditory, curse, enchantment, primal) The culdewen
unleashes a string of invectives. Each creature that hears them
must attempt a DC 25 Will save, with the eﬀects of mariner’s
curse and is then temporarily immune for 24 hours. Even on
a failed save, the curse ends automatically after 1 day.
i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> F b 23 2023
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Feb 23, 2023
24868555
4425067
