i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> F b 23 2023
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Feb 23, 2023
24868702
4425214
Bestiary 2
204
204
VANDALS OF CHAOS
Those who seek secret knowledge
beyond their means to purchase can
bargain with akizendris to provide
them with rare tomes in exchange
for delivering the immersed akizendri
into a library via another book. From
there, the akizendri can vandalize
books to its heart’s content without
being detected.
Protean
Proteans are manifestations of chaos made ﬂesh, natives of the Maelstrom that
embody the primeval potency of entropy in their serpentine forms. They follow
a loose, confusing, and ever-shifting caste system and form choruses based on
malleable and evanescent shared philosophies.
WARPWAVES
Many proteans can use the forces of chaos to distort reality in their foes’ minds,
creating mental ripples called warpwaves. When a creature fails its saving throw
and is affected by a warpwave, roll 1d8 and consult the table below for the
speciﬁc effect on that creature. Unless indicated otherwise, a warpwave effect
lasts for 1d4 rounds, and a new warpwave effect negates any previous warpwave
effect already affecting a creature.

d8
Warpwave Eﬀect

1
Clumsy 2 (3 on a critical failure)

2
Confused and gains 4d6 temporary Hit Points

3
Dazzled (permanent on a critical failure)

4
Enfeebled 2 (3 on a critical failure)

5
Immobilized by ﬁlaments of energy

6
Quickened (Stride, Strike, or Step only)

7
Slowed 1

8
Stupeﬁed 2 (3 on a critical failure)
AKIZENDRI
Akizendris gnaw at sources of knowledge and lore, gleefully corrupting and
altering them to vex scholars and sages across the planes with contradictions
and untruths. These proteans appear as cackling, serpentine creatures with
elongated crocodilian faces, luminous eyes, and arms that vanish at the elbows
into swirling clouds of runes before reforming into solid talons.
Akizendris amuse themselves by rearranging or deleting texts, placing
insulting acrostics in poetic verses, and penning crude insults upon title pages.
Libraries in such places as Heaven, Axis, and Hell are especially keen to avoid
such contamination, knowing that their records are choice targets for every
akizendri in existence.
AKIZENDRI
CREATURE 3
CN
SMALL
MONITOR
PROTEAN
Perception +8; darkvision, entropy sense (imprecise) 30 feet
Languages Abyssal, Celestial, Protean; telepathy (touch)
Skills Acrobatics +9, Deception +10, Occultism +11, Society +10, Stealth +9, Thievery +9
Str +3, Dex +4, Con +1, Int +4, Wis +3, Cha +1
Entropy Sense (divination, divine, prediction) An akizendri can anticipate the most
likely location of a creature through their supernatural insight into the forces of
chaotic probabilities and chance. This grants the akizendri the ability to sense
creatures within the listed range. A creature under the effects of nondetection or
that is otherwise shielded from divinations and predictions cannot be noticed via
entropy sense.
AC 19; Fort +6, Ref +11, Will +10
HP 42, fast healing 1; Weaknesses lawful 3; Resistances precision 3, protean
anatomy 6
Protean Anatomy (divine, transmutation) An akizendri’s vital organs shift and
change shape and position constantly. Immediately after the akizendri takes
acid, electricity, or sonic damage, it gains the listed amount of resistance to that
damage type. This lasts for 1 hour or until the next time the protean takes damage
of one of the other types (in which case its resistance changes to match that type),
whichever comes first.
i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> F b 23 2023
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Feb 23, 2023
24868702
4425214
