i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> F b 23 2023
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Feb 23, 2023
24868710
4425222
Bestiary 2
212
212
QLIPPOTH AND DEMONS
Qlippoth ruled the Abyss for eons
and still see themselves as its rightful
rulers. When the Abyss ﬁrst began to
spawn demons from the souls of sinful
humanoids, the realm was plunged
into a brutal war spanning untold
millennia, in which qlippoth, though
more powerful and established, were
slowly but surely driven back by the
endless demonic hordes who spawned
far more quickly than qlippoth could
ever hope to match. Today, qlippoth
have been driven to the deepest,
darkest corners of the Abyss where
they cling tightly to the crumbling
remains of their territory.
Qlippoth
Long before the creatures known as demons came to be the dominant force in
the Abyss, qlippoth ruled the Outer Rifts. These inimical creatures are a form of
primordial and alien evil that predates mortal life, and most immortal life as well.
Since the rise of mortal sin and the associated expansion of demonic life through
the Abyss, qlippoth have been driven to the deepest reaches of the Abyss, and
they seethe with rancor at the loss of their realms. Yet rather than directly oppose
demons, qlippoth instead turn to the source—mortal sin—and wage an endless
war to eradicate all creatures capable of sinful acts so that the demonic tide might
be turned back.
CYTHNIGOT
The cythnigot is a foul fungal parasite that grows and thrives in the corpses of
small creatures. It wears these bodies like a suit, but also adjusts and tailors the
ﬂeshy covering to suit its needs, and the body ends up looking as alien as anything
else spawned from the Abyssal depths. The cythnigot’s most identifying feature is
the long stalk of fungal material that extends from creature’s body, ending in a
surprisingly strong set of fanged jaws.
CYTHNIGOT
CREATURE 1
UNCOMMON
CE
TINY
FIEND
QLIPPOTH
Perception +5; darkvision
Languages Abyssal; telepathy (touch only)
Skills Acrobatics +6, Occultism +7, Stealth +6
Str +1, Dex +3, Con +4, Int +2, Wis +2, Cha +1
AC 16; Fort +9, Ref +6, Will +5
HP 14; Immunities controlled, fear; Weaknesses lawful 3; Resistances
mental 3, physical 3 (except cold iron)
Speed 30 feet, ﬂy 40 feet
Melee Ȱɵ bite +8 (agile, chaotic, ﬁnesse, magical), Damage 1d10+1
piercing plus 1d4 chaotic and tangle spores
Occult Innate Spells DC 17; 4th read omens; 2nd detect alignment (at
will, lawful only), paranoia; 1st phantom pain; Cantrips (1st) daze,
detect magic
Sickening Display Ȱɵ (concentrate, emotion, enchantment, fear,
mental, occult, visual) The cythnigot presents its awful appearance
fully, and creatures in a 10-foot emanation must attempt a DC 17
Will save. Once a creature attempts this save, it’s temporarily
immune to further Sickening Displays for 1 minute.
Critical Success The creature is unaﬀected.
Success The creature is ﬂat-footed until its next turn.
Failure The creature is sickened 1, and is ﬂat-footed for as
long as it’s sickened.
Critical Failure The creature is sickened 2 and is ﬂat-footed
for as long as it’s sickened.
Tangle Spores (disease) A creature bitten by a cythnigot
becomes aﬄicted by fast-growing spores that swiftly grow
into twitching spikes and hideous pallid growths of hairlike
ﬁbers. These growths erupt from the bite wound and writhe
and wrap around the creature’s limbs. Plant creatures take
a –2 circumstance penalty to save against tangle spores; Saving
Throw DC 17 Fortitude; Maximum Duration 6 rounds; Stage 1 clumsy
1 (1 round); Stage 2 clumsy 1 and ﬂat-footed (1 round); Stage 3 clumsy
2, ﬂat-footed, and if you attempt a manipulate action, you must
succeed at a DC 5 ﬂat check or it’s lost; roll the check
after spending the action, but before any eﬀects
are applied (1 round).
i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> F b 23 2023
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Feb 23, 2023
24868710
4425222
