i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> F b 23 2023
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Feb 23, 2023
24868720
4425232
Bestiary 2
222
222
RAVENER LAIRS
Cunning and paranoid, raveners
prefer to make their lairs in places
hostile to mortal life: atop peaks so
high that living creatures struggle to
breathe the rareﬁed air, submerged
beneath pools of magma in the
caldera of an active volcano, and so
on. Some raveners even go so far
as to deliberately ﬁll their entire
lair with lethally poisonous gases,
and raveners that are capable of
advanced spellcasting often seal
their lairs completely, accessing
them exclusively by spells such as
teleport or gaseous form. Of course,
raveners must feed on the living to
persist, so they never locate their
lairs so far from sources of life that
they’ll starve.
Ravener
Though their lifespans can measure in millennia, all dragons must eventually
perish. While many do so on the blades or under the spells of dragonslayers, some
manage to outlast their enemies and must, in time, face the truth that awaits all
living creatures at the end of their natural lifespan. As with many other creatures,
some dragons respond to such looming reminders of their own mortality poorly,
and the particularly prideful or wrathful of their kind often lash out in anger
when confronted by this grim truth. Peace and acceptance may ﬁnd some dragons,
but the most stubborn of their ilk (and invariably the most wicked) may pursue
a different answer to the problem. These dragons seek out sinister rites that can
transform them into undead creatures known as raveners.
A ravener’s ﬂesh is stripped away as part of the transformation, leaving only
their skeleton. What they lose in ﬂesh, however, the dragon gains in soul-rending
power, as their raw spiritual energy forms a protective barrier around their
skeleton, keeping it intact and allowing ﬂight with now-skeletal wings. This new
existence is not so easy to maintain as other forms of undeath, however, and the
ravener must feed regularly on the souls of living creatures to power their profane
metabolism. This hunger is much greater than that of a living dragon, so raveners
are forced to relocate regularly, traveling to fresh hunting grounds each time they
strip their current home of prey. A ravener may depopulate whole regions at a
time in order to sate their endless hunger for souls, lest they lose much of their
power and become a ravener husk (page 224).
CREATING A RAVENER
Any evil dragon of at least level 13 can become a ravener, although it is exceedingly
rare for a dragon younger than an ancient true dragon (such as a chromatic, primal,
or metallic dragon) to do so. Typically, the dragon must perform a rare ritual called
ravenous reanimation, but this requirement can be waived if the prospective ravener
has the aid of a powerful patron. In certain unique conditions, such as the intervention
of a vile god of undeath, a dragon can transform into a ravener after death without
the use of this rite at all. A ravener is a powerful creature that is likely to have a major
impact on your game, so you might want to create each one as a custom monster. If
you don’t have time, you can also create a ravener via the following steps.
Increase the dragon’s level by 2 and change their statistics as follows.
•	 They gain the undead trait and the Necril language.
•	 Increase their AC, attack bonuses, DCs, saving throws, and skill modiﬁers by 2.
•	 They gain weakness to good damage and more HP (see below).
•	 The ravener’s melee strikes deal an additional 2d6 negative damage, and their
damaging Breath Weapon deals an additional 4d6 persistent negative damage.

Starting Level
HP Increase
Weakness

13–20
50
15

21 or greater
80
20
RAVENEr ABILITIES
A ravener gains the following abilities.
Darkvision
Soulsense A ravener senses the spiritual essence of living and undead creatures within
the listed range. Creatures whose material bodies are one unit with their souls, like
celestials and ﬁends, appear brighter to this sense.
Negative Healing
Immunities death eﬀects, disease, paralyzed, poison, unconscious
Cowering Fear (aura, emotion, fear, mental) A ravener’s frightful presence causes
creatures to cower in fear as well. As long as a creature is at least frightened 2 or
more as a result of the ravener’s frightful presence, it is also immobilized from the fear.
Soul Ward An intangible ﬁeld of necromantic energy protects a ravener from total
destruction. A soul ward has 150 maximum Hit Points, or 200 if the ravener is level
i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> F b 23 2023
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Feb 23, 2023
24868720
4425232
