i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> F b 23 2023
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Feb 23, 2023
24868778
4425290
Bestiary 2
280
280
A MORTAL NAME
Some mortals refer to velstracs
as “kytons,” a misattribution that
the velstracs tolerate with cold
amusement. The term “kyton” denotes
a master or virtuoso among their kind,
and these ﬁends enjoy being labeled
as masters of their horrid paths of
perfection through agony.
Velstrac
The search for ultimate sensation through self-mutilation is the horrifying
preoccupation of the shadow-dwelling ﬁends known as velstracs. They transcend
their stoic detachment only when inﬂicting pain and terror upon their victims,
practicing new forms of torture, or when turning their agonizing practices back
on themselves. Velstracs consider themselves enlightened beings, transcending
such limitations as morality or mortal taboos, but their victims know them as
emotionless tormentors who inﬂict sadistic suffering. These ﬁends claim to
seek perfection in thought, form, and action, although they don’t recognize any
reﬁnement that doesn’t require the painful excision of the ﬂesh or spirit.
Velstracs manifest from the souls of the most extreme masochistic or sadistic
mortals who are judged and sent on to the Shadow Plane. They take on forms that
suit their vile predilections, ranging from the low-ranking augurs to the maestros
of suffering and mutilation called eremites. The process of transformation warps
the soul step by step, with other velstracs conveying their new members through
untold chambers of pain among the dark reaches of the Shadow Plane.
AUGUR
These spherical knots of sinewy muscle, serrated blades, and bloody metal are
the most common velstracs on the Shadow Plane. Each augur has only a single
eye, from which they can see the horrors inﬂicted by other velstracs, who train
the augur to expect and appreciate pain. Augurs are 1 foot in diameter and
weigh 30 pounds.
AUGUR
CREATURE 1
LE
TINY
FIEND
VELSTRAC
Perception +8; greater darkvision, painsight
Languages Common, Infernal, Shadowtongue (can’t speak any language)
Skills Acrobatics +8, Deception +6, Intimidation +7, Religion +4, Stealth +8,
Torture Lore +7
Str –1, Dex +3, Con +1, Int +2, Wis +1, Cha –1
Painsight (divination, divine) A velstrac automatically
knows whether a creature it sees has any of the
doomed, dying, and wounded conditions, as well as the
value of those conditions.
AC 17; Fort +4, Ref +10, Will +7
HP 14, regeneration 2 (deactivated by good or silver);
Immunities cold; Weaknesses good 5, silver 5
Feel the Blades (aura, divine, enchantment, fear, mental,
visual) 30 feet. When a creature ends its turn in the
aura, it feels the sharp barbs of the augur’s blades
on its skin. The creature must succeed at a DC 17
Will save or become frightened 1 (frightened 2 on a
critical failure).
Speed 20 feet, ﬂy 40 feet
Melee Ȱɵ blade +8 (agile, evil, ﬁnesse, magical, versatile P),
Damage 1d4–1 slashing plus 1d4 persistent bleed
Divine Innate Spells DC 17; 4th read omens (once per week); 2nd
augury (×2); 1st harm (×3); Cantrips (1st) mage hand
Focus Gaze Ȱɵ (concentrate, divine, enchantment, fear, mental, visual) The augur
stares at a creature they can see within 30 feet. The target must immediately attempt
a Will save against feel the blades. After attempting this save, the creature is then
temporarily immune until the start of the augur’s next turn.
Whirling Slice ʚʖ The augur Flies or Strides, whirling as they move. The augur deals
the damage of their blade Strike to each creature whose space they enter (DC 16 basic
Reﬂex save). Each creature is aﬀected only once, even if the augur moves through its
space multiple times.
i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> F b 23 2023
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Feb 23, 2023
24868778
4425290
