i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> F b 23 2023
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Feb 23, 2023
24868721
4425233
O-R
O-R
223
223
Introduction
A-C
D
E-G
H-K
L-N
O-R
S-T
U-Z
Appendix
RAVENER MINIONS
Raveners view most undead
creatures with little more respect
than they have for living creatures,
but they often make use of them as
servants. They prefer incorporeal
undead such as ghosts, specters, and
wraiths over such crude and simple
minions as skeletons and zombies.
RAVENER SPELLCASTERS
Instead of gaining the vicious
criticals ability, a ravener spellcaster
gains additional spellcasting
prowess. When creating your own
ravener spellcaster, give it the
spellcasting ability of a spellcaster
roughly 2 levels higher than a normal
spellcasting dragon of its kind. This
typically means that if the original
dragon had two spells prepared of
its highest level, you should add one
more spell of that level and then
two spells of the next highest level,
while if it had three spells prepared
of its highest level, you would add
three spells of the next highest
level (if applicable, add only a single
10th‑level spell). Either way, increase
its cantrip level by 1.
If the ravener is unusually young,
you might be able to use spells from
the relevant spellcasting dragon
sidebar, but for a typical ancient
dragon, consider the following spells
to ﬁll in the new slots, depending on
which level of spells you need.
•	 10th wish
•	 9th power word kill, telepathic
demand, weird
•	 8th disappearance, maze, mind
blank
•	 7th contingency, energy aegis,
spell turning
21 or higher. Whenever a ravener would be reduced below 1 Hit Point, all damage in
excess of what would reduce them to 1 Hit Point is instead dealt to their soul ward. If
this damage reduces the soul ward to fewer than 0 Hit Points, the ravener is destroyed.
A soul ward’s Hit Points can be restored only via speciﬁc ravener abilities such as
Consume Soul, ravenous breath, or vicious criticals. A ravener who goes more than a
week without successfully using Consume Soul to feed on a dying creature starves,
and their soul ward loses 1d4 Hit Points each day until they feed. If the ravener’s soul
ward loses all its Hit Points while the ravener still has more than 1 HP, they become a
ravener husk (page 224).
Consume Soul Ȳ˓ (death, divine, necromancy) Trigger A living creature within 30 feet of
the ravener dies; Eﬀect The ravener tears the creature’s soul from its body with their
maw and gulps it down. The dying creature must attempt a Fortitude save with the
same DC as the ravener’s Breath Weapon.
Critical Success The creature is unaﬀected.
Success The ravener tears oﬀ a small chunk of the creature’s soul. If the victim is restored
to life, they are drained 1 in addition to any other side eﬀects of returning to life. The
ravener adds a number of Hit Points to their soul ward equal to half the creature’s level.
Failure As success, but the creature’s soul is ravaged. The creature is drained 3 and the
ravener adds a number of Hit Points to their soul ward equal to the creature’s level.
Critical Failure As failure, but the ravener devours the entire soul. The victim can’t
be restored to life as long as the ravener exists except via a 10th-level eﬀect such
as miracle or wish, and the ravener adds a number of Hit Points to their soul ward
equal to twice the creature’s level.
Discorporate Ȳ˓ (divine, necromancy) Trigger The ravener takes excess damage to their
soul ward but still has at least 51 Hit Points in their soul ward; Eﬀect The ravener
draws deeply into their soul ward, discorporating their body into soul energy in order
to escape. They take 50 damage to their soul ward and their physical body vanishes,
reappearing 1d4 hours later in a random location within 1 mile from the location where
they used Discorporate.
Ravenous Breath A ravener’s Breath Weapon is infused with negative energy and strips
life essence from the victims. Any creature that fails its save against the ravener’s
Breath Weapon is drained 1 (or drained 2 on a critical failure). If at least one creature
is drained by the ravener’s Breath Weapon, the ravener’s soul ward gains 5 Hit Points.
Vicious Criticals The ravener treats an attack roll as a critical hit on a roll of 19 or 20,
as long as the attack roll was a success. Additionally, whenever the ravener makes a
critical hit with one of their Strikes, the target must succeed on a Fortitude save or
gain the drained 1 condition. If the target already has a drained value of greater than
0, their drained value instead increases by 1, to a maximum of drained 4. Whenever
the ravener applies drain to a creature in this way, their soul ward gains 5 Hit Points.
RAVENOUS REANIMATION
RITUAL 7
RARE
EVIL
NECROMANCY
Cast 1 day; Cost valuable treasures from the target dragon’s hoard worth a total value
of 50,000 gp
Primary Check Arcana (master), Occultism (master), or Religion (master)
Requirements You must be an evil dragon.
You destroy the gathered treasures with your breath weapon or other powerful magic,
then invoke necromantic energies before you feed upon the charred and melted remains.
As you do so, negative energy courses through your ﬂesh, automatically killing you.
Each individual ravener’s ravenous reanimation requires three to ﬁve unique additional
components. Whether or not you return as a ravener depends on the success of the ritual.
Critical Success You immediately transform into a ravener upon ﬁnishing the ritual; your
soul ward starts at full Hit Points (equal to 5 × your level).
Success You rise as a ravener 24 hours after completing the ritual, as long as your body
remains relatively intact. When you rise as a ravener, your soul ward starts at 1 Hit Point.
Failure You rise as a ravener husk 24 hours after completing the ritual.
Critical Failure You die.
i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> F b 23 2023
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Feb 23, 2023
24868721
4425233
