i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> F b 23 2023
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Feb 23, 2023
24868766
4425278
Bestiary 2
268
268
TROLLHOUND GENESIS
The ﬁrst trollhounds were the
unexpected result of occult
experimentation on wargs with
alchemically prepared troll blood in
the hope of creating an ooze with
limited regeneration. Most of the
wargs died during the trials; the
few survivors lost their cunning
and intelligence in exchange for
a troll’s voracious appetite and
ability to regenerate. Successive
generations of trollhounds often hunt
alongside trolls, understanding on an
instinctual level the bonds they share
with these lumbering giants.
Trollhound
Trollhounds are squat, slavering beasts akin to trolls in canine form. Requiring
vast quantities of meat to fuel their regenerative metabolisms, packs of wild
trollhounds prowl the foothills of regions where trolls dwell, their voracious
hunger driving them to slaughter and consume any prey they encounter. In some
regions, trolls breed trollhounds as pets, utilizing the trollhounds’ keen sense of
smell to aid in the hunt.
Covered in fetid, weeping sores, trollhounds are carriers of a debilitating
contagion known as bloodﬁre fever. Creatures that contract the disease through
the bite of a trollhound experience deep internal pain, as if their blood were on
ﬁre. Additional symptoms include loss of muscle coordination, pus-ﬁlled blisters,
and overall lethargy and fatigue. Other than suffering from skin irritation, both
trolls and trollhounds are immune to the major effects of the disease.
Trollhounds are fearless on the hunt and in combat, relying on their ability to
regenerate to carry them through. Not even the threat of ﬁre is enough to repel
them, as the beasts don’t recognize the danger it represents. Nevertheless, ﬁre is
one of the most effective tools in combating trollhounds; canny hunters know to
burn every last remnant of a supposedly slain trollhound, for their regenerative
powers are potent indeed.
While trolls themselves have had great success in domesticating, training, and
even befriending trollhounds, the same cannot be said for other would-be masters.
Whether impeded by constant exposure to trollhounds’ diseased slobber, their
ravenous hunger that never seems to be fully sated, or simply their foul personality
and quick-to-bite temperament, most attempts to use trollhounds in place of more
reliable guardians end in pain, misery, and a pack of feral trollhounds escaping
into the hinterlands. Left to their own devices, a pack of escaped trollhounds
can breed relatively quickly, and it can take less than a year for a small pack to
multiply into a signiﬁcant threat to the countryside. Best to leave the trollhounds
to the trolls, as they say!
TROLLHOUND
CREATURE 3
N
MEDIUM
BEAST
TROLL
Perception +6; darkvision, scent (imprecise) 30 feet
Skills Acrobatics +6, Athletics +11, Stealth +8,
Survival +6
Str +4, Dex +1, Con +5, Int –4, Wis +1,
Cha –2
AC 17; Fort +14, Ref +8, Will +6
HP 65, regeneration 15 (deactivated
by acid or ﬁre); Weaknesses
ﬁre 10
Speed 35 feet
Melee Ȱɵ jaws +11, Damage 1d12+4
piercing plus Knockdown and
bloodﬁre fever
Bloodﬁre Fever (disease); Saving
Throw DC 18 Fortitude; Stage 1
carrier with no ill eﬀect (1 day);
Stage 2 enfeebled 1 (1 day); Stage
3 enfeebled 1 and clumsy 1 (1 day);
Stage 4 enfeebled 2 and clumsy
2 (1 day); Stage 5 enfeebled 2,
clumsy 2, and fatigued (1 day)
Pack Attack The trollhound deals an
extra 1d6 damage to any creature
within reach of at least two of the
trollhound’s allies.
i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> F b 23 2023
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Feb 23, 2023
24868766
4425278
