i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> F b 23 2023
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Feb 23, 2023
24868746
4425258
Bestiary 2
248
248
SPECTRAL THRALLS
Specters often keep a few humanoid
thralls to torment, preventing the
agony of pain starvation, but since
they can’t minimize the negative
damage they inﬂict with their vile
touch, humanoid thralls who are too
low level generally don’t last long.
Specter
When an evil mortal creature dies, it sometimes returns to haunt the area of its
death as a specter, a hateful remnant, always seeking to slay others—particularly
humanoids—in an attempt to distribute its pain among as many souls as it can. A
specter maintains a strange semblance of its prior identity, but with a corrupted
sense of purpose. It cannot be reasoned with.
A specter denied the opportunity to harm living humanoids grows increasingly
agonized and irrational, akin to the mindset of a starving person forever denied a
release from agony through death.
SPECTER
CREATURE 7
LE
MEDIUM
INCORPOREAL
UNDEAD
Perception +15; darkvision
Languages Common, Necril; telepathy 100 feet (with
spectral thralls only)
Skills Acrobatics +17, Intimidation +15, Stealth +17
Str –5, Dex +6, Con +4, Int +0, Wis +4, Cha +4
AC 25; Fort +13, Ref +17, Will +15
HP 95, negative healing; Immunities death eﬀects,
disease, paralyzed, poison, precision, unconscious;
Resistances all 5 (except force, ghost touch, or
positive; double resistance vs. non-magical)
Frightful Presence (aura, emotion, fear, mental) 30
feet, DC 22
Pain Starvation A specter that goes for more than a
month without dealing negative damage to a living
humanoid becomes desperate and almost feral. It
changes alignment from lawful evil to chaotic evil,
loses control of any corrupted thralls it might have,
and becomes quickened. It can use its additional action
only to make vile touch Strikes against humanoid targets.
At the end of any turn in which it deals any amount of
negative damage to a living humanoid, it reverts to lawful
evil and is no longer quickened, but any thralls it lost
control of remain free.
Sunlight Powerlessness A specter caught in sunlight is clumsy 2
and slowed 2 for as long as it remains in the sunlight.
Speed ﬂy 40 feet
Melee Ȱɵ vile touch +18 (ﬁnesse), Damage 6d6 negative plus
spectral corruption
Spectral Corruption (curse, divine, enchantment, incapacitation,
mental) When the specter damages a living creature with its vile
touch Strike, the specter gains 5 temporary Hit Points and the target
creature must attempt a DC 25 Will save to avoid becoming corrupted.
Critical Success The creature is unaﬀected and is temporarily immune to
spectral corruption for 1 minute.
Success The creature is stupeﬁed 2 for 1 hour.
Failure The creature succumbs to the corruption and becomes a spectral
thrall. The creature is controlled by the specter, obeying the specter’s
telepathic or spoken orders, though a spectral thrall does not obey
obviously self-destructive orders. It can attempt a new Will save at
the end of each of its turns; on a success, it is no longer controlled
by the specter but becomes stupeﬁed 2 for 1 hour.
Critical Failure As failure, but the creature remains a thrall to the
specter until the curse is removed or until the specter succumbs
to pain starvation; it can’t attempt new Will saves to recover on
its own.
i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> F b 23 2023
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Feb 23, 2023
24868746
4425258
