i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> F b 23 2023
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Feb 23, 2023
24868550
4425062
Bestiary 2
52
52
WINGED CHUPACABRAS
Some chupacabras are mutants
with large reptilian wings and have
been known to carry oﬀ goats or
even children. A winged chupacabra
has a ﬂy Speed of 50 feet. Other
chupacabras grow much larger, up to
Medium sized, and can stand eye to
eye with a full-grown human. These
chupacabras have elite adjustments
to their statistics and deal 2d6+5
damage with their jaws Strikes.
Chupacabra
These notorious predators have an undeniable thirst for blood. Chupacabras
prefer to prey upon the weak and slow, often hiding in wait and watching
potential prey for long periods before attacking. Spry and stealthy, they most
often make their homes in areas of high grass and protective rock, their slightly
reﬂective scales allowing them to blend in well with such surroundings.
Chupacabras prefer to eat lone travelers and farm animals (particularly goats),
and leave little evidence of their presence apart from the grisly, blood‑drained
husks of their meals. Their tendency to stay out of sight combined with their
naturally nocturnal activity often leads superstitious locals to conclude the
worst, imagining that a particularly reckless vampire lives in the area.
A typical chupacabra measures nearly 5-1/2 feet from its muzzle to the tip
of its spiny tail, and it stands just under 4 feet tall. With their slight build and
lightweight bones, most weigh close to 100 pounds. They mate rarely and only
during the hottest months, with the females each producing a single egg that
hatches into a tiny, dehydrated creature. The mother typically leaves helpless
prey in her cave so the hatchling can immediately feed.
Although chupacabras are typically solitary creatures, they have been known
to form small gangs in bountiful areas. Members of these groups work well
together, growing bold enough to attack larger animals, small herds, and
otherwise more dangerous prey. Stories of chupacabras attacking travelers
or laying siege to farmhouses typically stem from the hunting practices of
such gangs. Regions where chupacabra activity like this is more common
often have complex and colorful myths and tall tales about chupacabra
capabilities or motive—and a few of the claims, such as that some
chupacabras can ﬂy, are all too true.
CHUPACABRA
CREATURE 3
N
SMALL
BEAST
Perception +9; darkvision
Languages Aklo (can’t speak any language)
Skills Acrobatics +9 (+11 to Leap), Stealth +9 (+11 in
undergrowth or rocky areas)
Str +3, Dex +4, Con +2, Int –3, Wis +2, Cha –2
AC 20; Fort +9, Ref +11, Will +7
HP 45
Speed 25 feet
Melee Ȱɵ jaws +11 (ﬁnesse), Damage 1d10+5
piercing plus Grab
Melee Ȱɵ claw +11 (agile, ﬁnesse), Damage
1d6+5 slashing
Chupar Ȱɵ Requirements The chupacabra has
a creature grabbed; Eﬀect The chupacabra
sucks blood from the grabbed creature. The
chupacabra gains the quickened condition
for 1 minute and can use the extra action
only for Strike and Stride actions. A
chupacabra can’t use Chupar again while
it is quickened in this way. A creature that
has its blood drained by a chupacabra is
drained 1 until it receives healing (of any
kind or amount).
Pounce Ȱɵ The chupacabra Strides and
makes a Strike at the end of that
movement. If the chupacabra began
this action hidden, it remains hidden
until after this ability’s Strike.
i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> F b 23 2023
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Feb 23, 2023
24868550
4425062
