i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> F b 23 2023
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Feb 23, 2023
24868730
4425242
Bestiary 2
232
232
ODDS AND ENDS
Scarecrows hold a certain liminal space
that is inhabitable by spirit creatures.
Ghosts in particular can use their
malevolent possession on a scarecrow
as if it were a living creature, using
them as vehicles to escape their site-
bound nature and so further spread
their murder and mayhem.
Scarecrow
A ramshackle collection of materials in a human shape, the scarecrow construct
is indistinguishable from a normal scarecrow until it slowly creaks to life. As it
animates, its carved pumpkin or sackcloth face bursts into eldritch ﬂame, sending
fear creeping into the air around it. Each scarecrow is handcrafted and unique in
its appearance, though most are 5 to 6 feet tall and constructed of a combination
of wood, cloth, rope, straw, sawdust, discarded husks and cobs, and similar
materials, all dressed in ragged pastoral garments. This rudimentary construction
makes a scarecrow somewhat fragile, prone to snapping limbs in the crush of
battle. Yet its structure is adaptable, allowing it to reshape another piece of itself
into a clawed limb or grip a severed portion of itself to swat at its foes.
When a scarecrow is created, it must be anointed with a drop of its creator’s
blood into each of its eyes. This blood soaks into the material and siphons a tiny
sliver of the creator’s soul away—not enough to harm the creator, but more than
enough to imbue the scarecrow with an instinctive intellect that allows it to
follow commands as eagerly as a well-trained (if ill-tempered) guard dog. When
a scarecrow is destroyed, the blood leaks back out from its eyes, but the portion
of the creator’s soul never returns.
SCARECROW
CREATURE 4
N
MEDIUM
CONSTRUCT
Perception +11; darkvision
Skills Athletics +12
Str +5, Dex +2, Con +3, Int –4, Wis +3, Cha –2
AC 19; Fort +13, Ref +8, Will +11
HP 60; Immunities bleed, death eﬀects, disease,
doomed, drained, fatigued, healing, mental,
necromancy, nonlethal attacks, paralyzed, poison,
sickened, unconscious; Weaknesses ﬁre 5; Resistances
physical 5 (except slashing)
Scarecrow’s Leer (aura, emotion, fear, mental, occult,
visual) 40 feet. The scarecrow’s eyes ﬂicker with an
unnerving glow. A creature can’t reduce its frightened
condition below 1 as long as it is in the aura’s emanation.
When a creature enters or starts its turn in the aura, it
must attempt a DC 18 Will save. Birds and other avian creatures
take a –2 circumstance penalty to this save.
Critical Success The creature is unaﬀected and is then temporarily
immune for 24 hours.
Success The creature is frightened 1.
Failure The creature is frightened 2 and is fascinated by the
scarecrow until the end of its next turn.
Critical Failure As failure, but frightened 3.
Speed 20 feet
Melee Ȱɵ claw +13 (versatile S), Damage 2d6+7 bludgeoning plus
clawing fear
Baleful Glow Ȳ˓ (concentrate, mental, occult) The scarecrow’s head
bursts into ghostly, heatless ﬂame that sheds bright light in a 20-foot
emanation (and dim light to the next 20 feet). If the scarecrow uses this
ability on the ﬁrst round of combat, any creature that has not acted yet is
startled and becomes ﬂat-footed against the scarecrow for 1 round. It can
suppress the light by using this action again.
Clawing Fear The scarecrow’s strikes deal an additional 1d6 mental damage to frightened
creatures.
Mundane Appearance Ȱɵ (concentrate) Until it acts, the scarecrow resembles an ordinary
scarecrow. It has an automatic result of 32 on Deception checks and DCs to pass as
an ordinary scarecrow.
i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> F b 23 2023
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Feb 23, 2023
24868730
4425242
