i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> F b 23 2023
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Feb 23, 2023
24868788
4425300
Bestiary 2
290
290
CREATING WERECREATURES
Werecreatures are complex monsters
capable of shifting between three
diﬀerent forms and of inﬂicting their
condition upon other humanoids. Full
rules for building werecreatures, along
with how to apply the werecreature’s
curse, appear on pages 328–329 of
the Pathﬁnder Bestiary.
Werecreature
Werecreatures transform into animals and animal-humanoid hybrids under
the light of the full moon. The doomed fate of these shapechanging creatures
derives from an ancient primal curse that they can, in turn, transmit through
their own bites. The stat blocks in this section reﬂect werecreatures in their
hybrid forms.
WERECREATURE ABILITIES
The following abilities are shared among all werecreatures. A werecreature also
gains several other abilities, as explained in the Bestiary, but additional rules for
those abilities aren’t necessary unless you create your own werecreature.
Animal Empathy (divination, primal) A werecreature can communicate with animals of
the same general kind.
Change Shape Ȱɵ (concentrate, polymorph, primal, transmutation) The werecreature
changes into their humanoid, hybrid, or animal shape. Each shape has a speciﬁc,
persistent appearance. A true werecreature’s natural form is their hybrid shape. In
humanoid shape, the werecreature uses their original humanoid size, loses their jaws
and claw Strikes, and gains a melee ﬁst Strike that deals bludgeoning damage equal to
the slashing damage dealt by their claw. In animal shape, their Speed and size change
to that of the animal, they gain any special Strike eﬀects of the animal that they didn’t
already have (such as Grab), and they lose their weapon Strikes.
Curse of the Werecreature (curse, necromancy, primal) This
curse aﬀects only humanoids; Saving Throw Fortitude DC
is the standard DC for the werecreature’s new level – 1. On
each full moon, the cursed creature must succeed at another
Fortitude save or turn into the same kind of werecreature
until dawn. The creature is under the GM’s
control and goes on a rampage for half the
night before falling unconscious until dawn.
Moon Frenzy (polymorph, primal, transmutation)
When a full moon appears in the
night sky, the werecreature must
enter hybrid form, can’t Change
Shape thereafter, becomes one
size larger, increases their reach
by 5 feet, and increases the
damage of their jaws Strike by 2.
When the moon sets or the sun rises,
the werecreature returns to humanoid form and is fatigued
for 2d4 hours.
WEREBOAR
Wereboars tend to be aggressive and stubborn, and often
live with their own kind in small, remote
communities. Even when they’re inclined
to interact with others, wereboars’ short
tempers and hostile nature lead other creatures
to avoid them. Lone wereboars who settle down—often on
remote farms—are extremely territorial, though others are
content to roam and explore lands far from home. Their other
habits also vary widely from individual to individual, right down
to diet: some wereboars might feast on human ﬂesh, while others are
mostly vegetarian.
WEREBOAR
CREATURE 2
CN
MEDIUM
BEAST
HUMAN
HUMANOID
WERECREATURE
Perception +8; low-light vision, scent (imprecise) 30 feet
i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> F b 23 2023
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Feb 23, 2023
24868788
4425300
