i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> F b 23 2023
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Feb 23, 2023
24868645
4425157
H-K
H-K
147
147
Introduction
A-C
D
E-G
H-K
L-N
O-R
S-T
U-Z
Appendix
SENSATION SEEKERS
Intellect devourers steal bodies to
experience the physical sensations
denied their nearly invulnerable
natural forms. Each new body
brings the opportunity to explore
new vistas of taste, touch, and pain.
Intellect devourers occupying a
body fear little but discovery, and
even that simply puts a temporary
end to their games. Harm to the
host is just another sensation to
experience, and replacement bodies
are easy to ﬁnd.
Intellect Devourer
Intellect devourers serve as advance scouts and inﬁltrators for the powerful
force of alien beings called the Dominion of the Black. These monsters roam the
Darklands, from which they mount secret invasions of the world above. When
an intellect devourer inﬁltrates a society, its ﬁrst priority is to acquire a body. It
might ﬁrst seek out a graveyard for a fresh corpse, as this is easier than ﬁghting
and killing someone. When the aberration compresses itself into the host’s brain
cavity, its real body goes dull to sensation as it connects to the nervous system of
its host. If found out, an intellect devourer might quickly inhabit a new body to
make its escape, preferably something inconspicuous such as a domestic animal.
INTELLECT DEVOURER
CREATURE 8
UNCOMMON
CE
SMALL
ABERRATION
Perception +16, darkvision, lifesense 60 feet
Languages Aklo, Common, Undercommon (can’t speak any languages); telepathy 100 feet
Skills Athletics +14, Deception +20, Diplomacy +16, Occultism +17, Society +17, Stealth +18
Str +2, Dex +4, Con +4, Int +5, Wis +4, Cha +6
AC 26, Fort +14, Ref +16, Will +18
HP 130; Immunities blinded, controlled, emotion, possession
Speed 35 feet
Melee Ȱɵ talon +18 (agile, ﬁnesse), Damage 2d10+5 slashing
Occult Innate Spells DC 27; 4th confusion, globe of invulnerability; 3rd soothe (×3); 2nd
gentle repose, invisibility (at will, self only), paranoia (at will); Cantrips (4th) daze,
detect magic, read aura
Body Thief ̂ˬ (manipulate, necromancy, occult, possession) The intellect devourer
reduces in size and burrows into the brain of a creature dead for no longer than 1 day.
At the start of the intellect devourer’s next turn, the body revives at its maximum Hit
Points, controlled by the devourer. The intellect devourer is conscious and can sense
everything the possessed body could. Any eﬀect that ends the possession kills the host
body with the same eﬀects as Exit Body. The intellect devourer can’t use any of the host
creature’s spells with Body Thief but can use its own spells. The host body slowly decays
while inhabited by the intellect devourer, becoming uninhabitable after
7 days unless preserved with gentle repose or a similar eﬀect.
Exit Body Ȱɵ (move) Requirements The intellect devourer is
controlling a body with Body Thief; Eﬀect The intellect
devourer leaves its host body, which dies instantly
and is no longer a suitable host for any Body
Thief ability. The intellect devourer appears
at full size in an adjacent space.
Ravage ̂ˬ The intellect devourer makes
two talon Strikes against a paralyzed,
restrained, or unconscious creature,
using the same attack modiﬁer as its
highest attack modiﬁer. These Strikes
gain the death trait. If Ravage kills the
target, the intellect devourer may use Body
Thief against it as a free action.
Stolen Identity While an intellect devourer
uses Body Thief, it gains the ability to
understand and speak all languages
known by the host, as well as knowledge
of the host body’s abilities, identity, role
in society, and personality. However,
it does not gain the
speciﬁc memories
or knowledge of
the host body.
i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> F b 23 2023
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Feb 23, 2023
24868645
4425157
