i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> F b 23 2023
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Feb 23, 2023
24868504
4425016
6
Bestiary 2
by the DC (and attack modiﬁer if any spells require spell
attack rolls). Spells are listed by level, followed by cantrips.
A spell prepared multiple times lists the number of times
in parentheses—for example, “(×2).” Spontaneous spells list
the number of spell slots after the spell level.
Innate Spells These are listed like other spells, but can also
include constant, at-will, and focus spells. If the creature
has a focus spell as an innate spell, it works like other innate
spells with listed uses, rather than costing Focus Points.
Spells that can be used an unlimited number of times list
“(at will)” after the spell’s name. Constant spells appear at
the end, separated by level. Rules for constant and at-will
spells appear on page 342 in the Ability Glossary.
Focus Spells If a creature has focus spells, this entry lists the
spells’ level, the Focus Points in the creature’s focus pool, the
DC, and those spells.
Rituals Any rituals the creature can cast appear here.
Oﬀensive or Proactive Abilities Any actions, activities, or
abilities that automatically aﬀect the creature’s oﬀense, as
well as free actions or reactions that are usually triggered
on the creature’s turn, appear here in alphabetical order.
ROLEPLAYING CREATURES
Whether it’s an adversary or a potential ally, a creature
might have a very different worldview than the PCs. When
roleplaying creatures, think about how they experience
the world differently due to their senses, physiology, and
habitat. Each creature entry in this book gives you some
context about the creature’s worldview, motivations,
ecology, and societies. Many sections have sidebars that
provide relevant facts about creatures (labeled with the
icons listed in the Sidebar Icons section on page 7). You can
use the information in each creature entry as cues on how
to roleplaying the creature in and out of combat. These
cues can be as simple as a difference in idioms (perhaps
saying “in the other tentacle” rather than “on the other
hand”) and as complex as determining motivations, hopes,
and dreams for an individual creature. Understanding a
creature you’re playing also informs what tactics they’ll
use, as well as whether they are willing to surrender or ﬂee
when things don’t go their way.
Adjusting Creatures
Sometimes you might need to customize a creature based
on the needs of your story or the narrative circumstances as
your story unfolds. This section guides you through some
basic strategies you can use to adjust creatures. It includes
quick adjustments you can make to a creature to alter its
level. You might also need to adjust a creature’s languages
or gear, or know its proﬁciency ranks in skills or Perception.
COMBAT POWER
The creatures presented in this book have appropriate
statistics for their levels. In many cases, you can make
relatively minor adjustments, called elite and weak
adjustments, to their statistics to make them function 1 level
higher or lower than presented.
Elite and weak adjustments work best with creatures
that focus on physical combat. These adjustments
overstate the normal numerical gains the creature would
make from increasing its level to make up for the lack
of new special abilities. As such, when applied multiple
times to the same creature, these adjustments cause its
statistics to become less accurate for the creature’s level.
These adjustments have a greater effect on the power
level of low-level creatures; applying elite adjustments to
a level –1 creature gives you one closer to 1st level, and
applying weak adjustments to a 1st-level creature gives
you one whose level is closer to –1.
Creatures that cast spells or rely on noncombat abilities
typically need speciﬁc adjustments to those spells or abilities.
ELITe ADJUSTMeNTS
Sometimes you’ll want a creature that’s just a bit more
powerful than normal so that you can present a challenge
that would otherwise be trivial, or show that one enemy
is stronger than its kin. To do this quickly and easily,
apply the elite adjustments to its statistics as follows:
•	 Increase the creature’s AC, attack modiﬁers, DCs,
saving throws, Perception, and skill modiﬁers by 2.
•	 Increase the damage of its Strikes and other offensive
abilities by 2. If the creature has limits on how many
times or how often it can use an ability (such as a
spellcaster’s spells or a dragon’s Breath Weapon),
increase the damage by 4 instead.
•	 Increase the creature’s Hit Points based on its starting
level (see the table below).

Starting Level
HP Increase

1 or lower
10

2–4
15

5–19
20

20+
30
WeaK ADJUSTMeNTS
Sometimes you’ll want a creature that’s weaker than
normal so you can use a creature that would otherwise
be too challenging, or show that one enemy is weaker
than its kin. To do this quickly and easily, apply the weak
adjustments to its statistics as follows.
•	 Decrease the creature’s AC, attack modiﬁers, DCs,
saving throws, and skill modiﬁers by 2.
•	 Decrease the damage of its Strikes and other offensive
abilities by 2. If the creature has limits on how many
times or how often it can use an ability (such as a
spellcaster’s spells or a dragon’s Breath Weapon),
decrease the damage by 4 instead.
•	 Decrease the creature’s HP based on its starting level.

Starting Level
HP Decrease

1–2
–10

3–5
–15

6–20
–20

21+
–30
i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> F b 23 2023
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Feb 23, 2023
24868504
4425016
