i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> F b 23 2023
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Feb 23, 2023
24868740
4425252
Bestiary 2
242
242
SKRIK NETTLE HARVESTING
Skrik nettle venom is magical in
nature and deteriorates swiftly. A
character with alchemist’s tools can
harvest a single dose of skrik nettle
venom from a skrik nettle that has
been dead no longer than an hour
with a successful DC 24 Crafting
check, which transforms the ﬂuid
into a standard potion of ﬂying.
Skrik Nettle
The expansive skies of the First World are home to skrik nettles—delicate, bizarre-
looking creatures that resemble large jellyﬁshes. A fringe of brightly colored
feathers circles their bodies, and long tendrils trail from their center, each ending in
a snapping beak. Known for their eerie, chirping melodies, skrik nettles soar above
the First World in ﬂocks of a dozen or more, diligently scavenging for food in the
fey realm’s cutthroat ecosystem. When hunting or provoked, skrik nettles attack
their foes by injecting them with a magical poison that causes the victim to ﬂoat
helplessly up into the sky. Skrik nettles continuously inject this poison into their
helpless prey until it dies or is so high up that the skrik nettle needs only wait for the
poison to end, its meal crashing helplessly to the ground below.
Skrik nettles that ﬁnd their way to the Material Plane (or any plane other than the
First World, for that matter) tend to be much more aggressive, for the planar energies
that they ﬁnd comforting and soothing on the First World are conspicuously absent.
The ﬁrst few minutes after a skrik nettle arrives on any plane but the First World tend
to be ﬁlled with violence and fear, as the panicking creature lashes out at any nearby
creatures (including other skrik nettles) in the mistaken notion that these others are
somehow responsible for the discomforting change. After 10 minutes or so, assuming
the skrik nettle survives its bout of violence, the creature calms down somewhat and
does its best to acclimate to its new home. Yet even skrik nettles who ﬁnd themselves
marooned beyond the First World for years never lose their longing for home, and
they instinctively seek out portals to this plane for the rest of their lives.
SKRIK NETTLE
CREATURE 6
N
LARGE
ABERRATION
Perception +16; motionsense 30 feet
Skills Acrobatics +16
Str +4, Dex +5, Con +2, Int –4, Wis +4, Cha +0
Motionsense A ﬂying skrik nettle can detect the movement of nearby creatures and
objects from the tiny gusts of wind created by their movements. This is a precise sense
at the listed range, but it works only against creatures and objects that moved through
air in the previous round.
AC 22; Fort +10, Ref +17, Will +14
HP 130, fast healing 5; Weaknesses piercing 5, slashing 5
Spill Venom Ǻȓ Trigger The skrik nettle takes piercing or slashing damage;
Eﬀect The skrik nettle ejects its venom onto an adjacent creature. That
creature is exposed to skrik nettle venom.
Speed 10 feet, ﬂy 25 feet
Melee Ȱɵ beak +17 (agile, ﬁnesse, reach 10 feet), Damage 2d8+6
piercing plus skrik nettle venom
Negate Levitation Ȱɵ (evocation, primal) The skrik nettle
attempts to counteract (with a modiﬁer of +17) a single
eﬀect currently levitating a creature it can detect with its
motionsense.
Skrik Nettle Venom (evocation, poison, primal) Saving Throw DC
27 Fortitude; Maximum Duration 6 rounds; Stage 1 clumsy 1 and
levitate upward 5 feet (1 round); Stage 2 clumsy 2 and levitate
upward 10 feet (1 round)
A levitating creature takes a –2 circumstance penalty to
attack rolls. It can spend an Interact action to stabilize itself
and negate this penalty for the remainder of its turn. If it’s
adjacent to a ﬁxed object or stable terrain, it can move across
the surface by climbing (if the surface is vertical) or crawling
(if the surface is horizontal, such as a ceiling). A ﬂying
creature can move normally but still increases its altitude as
appropriate from the venom. A creature that can’t ﬂy falls as
soon as it recovers from skrik nettle venom.
i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> F b 23 2023
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Feb 23, 2023
24868740
4425252
