i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> F b 23 2023
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Feb 23, 2023
24868626
4425138
Bestiary 2
128
128
CARRION GOLEM COMPONENTS
The decaying body parts that make
up a carrion golem are of little
value in most cultures. However,
the magic used to preserve them
and infuse them with disease can
still be harnessed by unscrupulous
necromancers and other practitioners
of foul arts. Such creatures may
be willing to purchase a destroyed
carrion golem, but the processes
used to extract the power within the
pieces are diﬃcult and ineﬃcient, so
they won’t pay much.
Golems
The shape and structure of a golem are limited only by the power and creativity
of its crafter. Over the ages, skilled minds and hands have reﬁned the formulas
for creating speciﬁc types of golems, resulting in the development of common
forms. The secrets of creating the types of golems presented here may be
guarded within the halls of famous golemworks or the forgotten libraries of
many worlds.
GOLEM ANTIMAGIC
A golem is immune to spells and magical abilities other than its own, but each
type of golem is affected by a few types of magic in special ways. These exceptions
are listed in shortened form in the golem’s stat block, with the full rules appearing
here. If an entry lists multiple types (such as “cold and water”), either type of spell
can affect the golem.
•	 Harmed By Any magic of this type that targets the golem causes it to take the
listed amount of damage (this damage has no type) instead of the usual eﬀect. If the
golem starts its turn in an area of magic of this type or is aﬀected by a persistent
eﬀect of the appropriate type, it takes the damage listed in the parenthetical.
•	 Healed By Any magic of this type that targets the golem makes the golem lose the
slowed condition and gain Hit Points equal to half the damage the spell would have
dealt. If the golem starts its turn in an area of this type of magic, it gains the Hit
Points listed in the parenthetical.
•	 Slowed By Any magic of this type that targets the golem causes it to be slowed 1
for 2d6 rounds instead of the usual eﬀect. If the golem starts its turn in an area of
this type of magic, it’s slowed 1 for that round.
•	 Vulnerable To Each golem is vulnerable to one or more speciﬁc spells, with the
eﬀects described in its stat block.
CARRION GOLEM
Carrion golems are foul-smelling and ﬂy-
swarmed amalgams of putreﬁed parts
stitched together from many different
creatures. Unlike most golems, carrion
golems only rarely are given a humanoid
form, instead appearing more twisted and
bestial in frame. As a result, some students of
golem crafting claim that the carrion golem isn’t
a “true golem,” but regardless of those claims these
foul constructs certainly share other golem-like traits,
including their signiﬁcant immunities. What is true is
that most who craft carrion golems don’t do so out
of true interest in the technique of golem crafting, but
for the golem’s ability to spread disease. The crafters
of carrion golems send their mindless minions to cause
immediate destruction and leave wakes of illness and
death behind them.
CARRION GOLEM
CREATURE 4
UNCOMMON
N
MEDIUM
CONSTRUCT
GOLEM
MINDLESS
Perception +6; darkvision
Skills Athletics +14
Str +4, Dex –2, Con +3, Int –5, Wis +0, Cha –5
AC 19; Fort +13, Ref +8, Will +10
HP 60; Immunities bleed, death eﬀects, disease,
doomed, drained, electricity, fatigued,
healing, magic (see Golem
Antimagic below), mental,
i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> F b 23 2023
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Feb 23, 2023
24868626
4425138
