i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> F b 23 2023
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Feb 23, 2023
24868768
4425280
Bestiary 2
270
270
TWIGJACK BRAMBLES
Sometimes groups of twigjacks
gather and form temporary
communities called “brambles,”
usually to aid in times of need for
the forest or to enact some great
vengeance. These groups can
consist of anywhere from three to
30 twigjacks. Once their task is
complete, the twigjacks go their
separate ways.
Twigjack
Maladjusted forest denizens, twigjacks form from the cruel and prankish
combination of fey and the very woods in which they reside. A twigjack’s body  is
made up of prickly brambles woven with vines. Shaggy, mossy growth, not unlike
hair, tops a twigjack’s head. Its mouth is just a canyon of splintered and broken
sticks bisecting its face. Leaves and sprigs of new growth randomly sprout from
the creature’s body. Many dense forests on Golarion have at least a handful of
twigjacks living in the undergrowth.
While truculent and violent, twigjacks care deeply for what they consider
to be their forests. These creatures harass outsiders who delve deep into their
wooded domains, forcing back even the most determined explorers, foresters, and
travelers, especially when those intruders cut roads through the forest. However,
they are not terribly territorial when it comes to other forest creatures. When
sylvan creatures, especially fey, rally against an outside threat, twigjacks in the
area eagerly arrive to ﬁght, even if they were not invited.
Less seasoned travelers who encounter twigjacks in their canopied homes often
mistake them for leshys, a tendency that frustrates twigjacks, as they
have a low opinion of such creatures. More broadly, twigjacks
resent being considered mere animated plants at all. Rather, they
embrace their fey heritage—often to a foolish end. Twigjacks
go out of their way to ingratiate themselves to the fey creatures
they live among. Several popular comic songs weave the tale of
a twigjack attempting to woo a powerful and graceful dryad, only
to be comically disgraced after many loutish attempts. Many fey
seem embarrassed by these strange cousins, but
some spriggans, quicklings, and redcaps harness
the twigjacks’ violent urges and disruptive
behavior for their own purposes.
While twigjacks are fey, and as such are often
found in the First World, it’s somewhat curious that
those twigjacks who ﬁnd religion only rarely turn to
the Eldest of the First World. Instead, twigjacks tend
to worship false deities of their own design: ﬁgures
spotted in tangles of tree branches, clots of undergrowth,
or other hidden nooks in the natural world. These religions
are always highly localized, and while these faiths do not support
clerics, they often inspire zealous crusades against non-fey.
TWIGJACK
CREATURE 3
CE
TINY
FEY
PLANT
Perception +9; darkvision
Languages Common, Sylvan
Skills Acrobatics +11, Athletics +9, Nature +7, Stealth +11
Str +2, Dex +4, Con +2, Int +0, Wis +2, Cha +1
AC 19; Fort +9, Ref +11, Will +7
HP 50; Weaknesses ﬁre 5
Speed 25 feet
Melee Ȱɵ claw +11 (agile, ﬁnesse), Damage 1d10+4 slashing
Ranged Ȱɵ splinter +11 (deadly 1d6, range increment 30 feet), Damage 1d6+4
piercing
Bramble Jump ̂ˬ (conjuration, plant, primal, teleportation) Requirements The
twigjack is in undergrowth; Eﬀect The twigjack scrambles into the undergrowth
and instantly teleports to a square of undergrowth within 60 feet. This
movement doesn’t trigger reactions.
Splinter Spray ʚʖ The twigjack sprays a barrage of splinters and brambles
from its body in a 15-foot cone, dealing 4d6 piercing damage (DC 20 basic
Reﬂex save). It can’t use Splinter Spray again for 1d4 rounds.
i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> F b 23 2023
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Feb 23, 2023
24868768
4425280
