i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> F b 23 2023
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Feb 23, 2023
24868696
4425208
Bestiary 2
198
198
OTHER PETITIONERS
Each plane (save the Negative
Energy Plane) has its own category
of petitioner, but not every plane or
demiplane present in the Pathﬁnder
setting is listed here. Certainly,
planes of your own design aren’t
represented! You can use the wide
range of petitioner types and
descriptions here as templates or
inspiration for creating new types
of petitioners: each needs a name,
appearance, alignment, language,
additional ability, and attack.
For instance, Desna maintains a
demiplane called Cynosure that
straddles the Material Plane and
Elysium. Petitioners on Cynosure are
known as the chosen dreamers, and
they appear as idealized and softly
glowing versions of their mortal
selves; they are chaotic good, speak
Celestial, are immune to confusion
and stupeﬁed, and deal bludgeoning
damage with their ﬁsts.
Petitioner
When a mortal dies, their soul travels to the Boneyard in the Outer Planes where
they are judged by Pharasma, the goddess of the dead. Once they have been judged,
their soul is sent on to their ﬁnal reward or punishment in the afterlife, and in the
process is transformed into a creature known as a petitioner. This process grants
the soul a new body, one whose shape is the result of the prevailing philosophical
forces of the plane to which it is sent. The petitioner’s memories from their life are
typically wiped nearly clean, allowing them to retain only a few hazy fragments
akin to half-remembered dreams. Regardless of the petitioner’s size, power, or
nature in life, they’re a Medium creature in their afterlife.
Existence as a petitioner can last for eons, but this state is not necessarily
eternal. Deities, powerful denizens of the Great Beyond, or even the outer planes
themselves can further change the petitioner’s nature by transforming them
into raw quintessence, spiritual essence that is then used to expand a plane’s
physical manifestation, or by transforming the petitioner into a new form of
supernatural life such as a celestial, monitor, or ﬁend. Should a petitioner die,
their body breaks down in a process akin to decay, their nature reverting back
to the quintessence or elements that make up their plane. This represents the
true end of a soul’s journey: their associated life essence travels back to the heart
of the Great Beyond to be recycled into the Positive Energy plane, fueling the
creation of entirely new souls.
PETITIONER
CREATURE 1
VARIES
MEDIUM
PETITIONER
Perception +7, darkvision
Languages see Planar Incarnation
Skills Athletics +7, Planar Lore +7
Str +2, Dex +2, Con +2, Int +2, Wis +2, Cha +2
AC 15; Fort +7, Ref +7, Will +7
HP 22
Speed 25 feet
Planar Incarnation All petitioners are formed from and personify the nature of the plane
on which they manifest, and their statistics are adjusted as summarized below. They
also gain any trait associated with creatures from their plane.
Abaddon (the Hunted) The hunted appear as Medium sized versions of themselves
from their prior lives, and they exist to be pursued and consumed by daemons;
Alignment NE; Language Daemonic; Additional Ability fast healing 5; Melee ﬁst +7,
Damage 1d8+2 bludgeoning
Abyss (the Larvae) The larvae appear as maggot-like grubs with the face the petitioners
had in life; Alignment CE; Language Abyssal; Additional Ability immune to disease
and poison; Melee jaws +7, Damage 1d8+2 piercing
Astral Plane (the Untethered) The untethered appear as astrally projected versions of
their mortal forms, yet they lack a silver cord; Alignment any; Language any one
spoken in life (such as Common); Additional Ability ﬂy Speed 20 feet; Melee ﬁst +7,
Damage 1d8+2 bludgeoning
Axis (the Unmade) The unmade appear as parchment-skinned humanoids covered
in lines of close black script; Alignment LN; Language Utopian; Additional Ability
immune to emotion and fear; Melee ﬁst +7, Damage 1d8+2 bludgeoning
Boneyard (the Dead) The dead appear as animated skeletons of the type of creature
they were when they were alive; Alignment N; Language Requian; Additional
Ability resist piercing and slashing 3; Melee claw +7, Damage 1d8+2 slashing
Dead Vault (the Caged) The caged are sent to Rovagug’s prison plane, the Dead Vault;
they appear as chained versions of their mortal bodies, save that their faces are
hideous insectile visages; Alignment CE; Language Abyssal; Additional Ability
Rend Ȱɵ bite; Melee bite +7, Damage 1d8+2 piercing
Dimension of Dreams (the Dreamers) The dreamers appear as their ideal appearance,
age, and gender from their mortal bodies; Alignment any; Language Aklo;
i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> F b 23 2023
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Feb 23, 2023
24868696
4425208
