i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> F b 23 2023
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Feb 23, 2023
24868779
4425291
U-Z
U-Z
281
281
Introduction
A-C
D
E-G
H-K
L-N
O-R
S-T
U-Z
Appendix
VELSTRAC DIVINITIES
The most powerful velstracs are
unique divinities known collectively
as velstrac demagogues—powerful
creatures worshipped by those
mortals who seek to experience
agonizing new revelations and
gain power by enhancing the body
through pain.
OSTIARIUS
Ostiariuses, as emissaries of the velstracs, tend to the portals between the Shadow
Plane and the Material Plane. They not only escort other velstracs into the world
of mortals, but also work to entice mortals into the realms of the velstracs—
from which most mortals never leave. Among the most pleasant and persuasive of
the velstracs, ostiariuses are prepared to converse for hours upon any topic, and
they are skilled at returning, again and again, to the subject of the delights found
in their perverse philosophies. Ostiariuses stand over 6 feet tall, and individuals
range from skeletally thin to hugely corpulent.
OSTIARIUS
CREATURE 5
LE
MEDIUM
FIEND
VELSTRAC
Perception +15; greater darkvision, painsight, sense portal
Languages Common, Infernal, Shadowtongue; telepathy 100 feet
Skills Acrobatics +13, Deception +12, Diplomacy +12, Intimidation +16,
Religion +11, Torture Lore +11
Str +0, Dex +4, Con +2, Int +2, Wis +4, Cha +5
Painsight (divination, divine) As augur.
Sense Portal (divination, divine) The ostiarius always knows the
direction and distance to the closest portal between the Shadow
Plane and the Material Plane. This sense functions only on
these two planes.
AC 21; Fort +9, Ref +15, Will +13; +1 status to all saves vs. magic
HP 67, regeneration 5 (deactivated by good or silver);
Immunities cold; Weaknesses good 5, silver 5
Whispering Wounds (aura, divine, enchantment, mental,
visual) 30 feet. When a creature ends its turn in the aura,
it hears the wounds on the ostiarius’s body whisper obscene
truths. The creature must succeed at a DC 21 Will save or become
sickened 1.
Speed 25 feet
Melee Ȱɵ claw +13 (agile, evil, ﬁnesse, magical), Damage 2d6+2
slashing plus 2d6 persistent bleed
Divine Innate Spells DC 24; 3rd enthrall, wanderer’s guide; 2nd
calm emotions (at will), darkness, silence; Cantrips (3rd) shield
Rituals DC 22; inveigle
Compel Courage Ȱɵ (auditory, divine, emotion, enchantment,
linguistic, mental) The ostiarius inspires their willing allies and
themself by whispering words of courage from their wounds.
The ostiarius and their allies in a 50-foot emanation gain a +1
status bonus to attack rolls, damage rolls, and saves against fear eﬀects.
The ostiarius can Sustain Compel Courage. Non-velstracs who accept this
compelled courage ﬁnd bleeding wounds opening on their own bodies to
whisper in thanks. They take 1 persistent bleed damage and can’t attempt
a ﬂat check to end this damage as long as they’re compelled.
Focus Gaze Ȱɵ (concentrate, divine, enchantment, fear, mental, visual) The ostiarius
stares at a creature they can see within 30 feet. The creature must immediately
attempt a Will save against whispering wounds. In addition, if the creature was
already sickened and fails its save, the creature is fascinated by the ostiarius and
can’t use hostile actions. This fascination lasts for 1 round or until the ostiarius takes
any hostile action against the creature or the creature’s allies. Whether the creature
succeeds at or fails the save, it is temporarily immune for 1 hour.
EVANGELIST
Evangelists, the velstracs’ unofﬁcial ambassadors, roam the farthest reaches
of the planes to spread the word of their kind’s abhorrent belief in perfection
through pain. They are therefore the most frequently encountered velstracs on the
i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> F b 23 2023
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Feb 23, 2023
24868779
4425291
