i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> F b 23 2023
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Feb 23, 2023
24868603
4425115
E-G
E-G
105
105
Introduction
A-C
D
E-G
H-K
L-N
O-R
S-T
U-Z
Appendix
OTHER AQUATIC REPTILES
The elasmosaurus is but one of
many types of aquatic reptiles found
in primeval oceans or lost worlds.
Some, like the ichthyosaurus, are
almost ﬁshlike in appearance.
Others, such as the mosasaurus,
are truly massive beasts capable of
killing and eating whales.
Elasmosaurus
Elasmosauruses are long-necked, primeval reptiles that dwell in deep oceans and
seas. Although not truly a dinosaur, elasmosauruses are often found in similar
locations and are similarly titanic creatures. Keeping their massive bodies
underwater, elasmosauruses use their long necks to catch prey and snorkel air to
their massive lungs while remaining mostly hidden from the surface above. An
elasmosaurus is 30 feet long and weighs 6,000 pounds.
As rare and reclusive as they are, elasmosauruses are sometimes mistaken for
even rarer creatures called water orms, legendary aquatic denizens of remote
lakes known for their elusiveness and craftiness. Whereas elasmosauruses are
mundane creatures of animalistic intelligence, water orms are magical beings with
near‑humanoid intelligence and a curious fascination with mortals, and they seem
to delight in confounding onlookers. As a result, it’s theorized that a typical water
orm is more than happy to lead a group of spectators to a lost elasmosaurus, both
to throw its pursuers off its tail and for the hilarity that will inevitably ensue.
While elasmosauruses are often found in lost worlds and unsettled regions,
those who dwell in the oceans of the world do not contain their hunting grounds
to speciﬁc regions. As a result, it’s not unheard of for a wandering specimen to
ﬁnd its way to coastal waters. Those that do often ﬁnd the ports of small towns
or even large cities to be wondrous banquets and are usually hunted down by
coastal guards or adventurers. When a wayward
elasmosaurus like this ﬁnds its way into a city’s
sewer system or reservoirs, though, it can become
the stuff of urban legends.
ELASMOSAURUS
CREATURE 7
N
HUGE
ANIMAL
Perception +16; low-light vision, scent (imprecise) 30 feet
Skills Athletics +17
Str +6, Dex +4, Con +6, Int –4, Wis +5, Cha –1
Deep Breath The elasmosaurus can hold its breath for 2 hours.
AC 25; Fort +17, Ref +13, Will +16
HP 125
Long Neck An elasmosaurus’s long neck allows it to interact with the surface while
its body remains submerged underwater. While submerged no deeper than 15 feet
underwater, an elasmosaurus can still stick its head up to breathe. An elasmosaurus
gains cover against attacks made against creatures who are above the water’s
surface while it is underwater, even if its head is above the surface.
Attack of Opportunity Ǻȓ Jaws only.
Speed 5 feet, swim 35 feet
Melee Ȱɵ jaws +17 (reach 15 feet), Damage 2d12+10 piercing plus Grab
Melee Ȱɵ paddle +17, Damage 2d6+10 bludgeoning
Drag Below Ȱɵ (attack) The elasmosaurus attempts an Athletics check against a
grabbed foe’s Fortitude DC. If the elasmosaurus succeeds, the foe is forcibly moved
5 feet toward the elasmosaurus’s body. If the elasmosaurus
critically succeeds, the foe is moved 10 feet towards the
elasmosaurus’s body.
Thrashing Retreat ʚʖ A swimming
elasmosaurus thrashes the area
around it as it attempts to ﬂee.
It makes two paddle Strikes, each
of which must be against
separate
targets,
and
each of which takes the
normal multiple attack penalty. It then Swims up
to its swim Speed. This Swim does not trigger
reactions based on movement.
i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> F b 23 2023
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Feb 23, 2023
24868603
4425115
