i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> F b 23 2023
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Feb 23, 2023
24868570
4425082
Bestiary 2
72
72
THE HIERARCHY OF HELL
Hell is a harsh plane of law with little
use for compassion or empathy. As
such, it exists entirely within a strict
hierarchy, and this order extends to
its denizens. While diﬀerent types of
demons correspond to various sins
and daemons are associated with
modes of mortal death, the diﬀerent
types of devils exist solely to fulﬁll
particular roles in the infernal
machine. On occasion, a particular
devil can transcend the role for
which they were literally shaped,
but this often transforms the devil
physically into the type suitable for
their new role.
Devil
Each type of devil plays a particular role in Hell’s bureaucracies and hierarchies,
though some have far more specialized functions than others.
ZEBUB (ACCUSER DEVIL)
Zebubs serve as Hell’s messengers and spies. Their ability to share what they’ve seen
with other creatures makes them especially useful—not only to other devils, but also
to mortal conjurers. Some infernal lords unleash them in enormous, horrid swarms
upon unsuspecting lands to debase ﬂesh and land alike while collecting secrets the
infernal host might later put to use. Zebubs use any opportunity to manipulate
weak-willed or easily tempted mortals into serving the zebubs’ whims. While
arrogant and deceitful, zebubs lack the cunning and conﬁdence of most devils, and
thus their schemes often focus on satisfying self-serving or self-destructive ambitions.
Zebubs form from the souls of childish and craven mortals, reshaped by the archdevil
Baalzebul in the frozen, ﬁlthy wastes of Hell’s seventh layer, Cocytus.
ZEBUB
CREATURE 3
LE
SMALL
DEVIL
FIEND
Perception +12; greater darkvision
Languages Celestial, Draconic, Infernal; telepathy 100 feet
Skills Acrobatics +10, Arcana +7, Deception +8, Religion +9, Stealth +10
Str +1, Dex +4, Con +1, Int +0, Wis +3, Cha +1
AC 20: Fort +8, Ref +10, Will +8; +1 status to all saves vs. magic
HP 30; Immunities ﬁre; Weaknesses good 5; Resistances physical 5 (except
silver), poison 5
Speed 15 feet, ﬂy 50 feet
Melee Ȱɵ mandibles +12 (evil, ﬁnesse, magical), Damage 1d10+3 piercing plus 1d6
evil and Cocytan ﬁlth
Divine Innate Spells DC 17; 5th dimension door; 4th dimension door (at will); 2nd invisibility
(at will, self only), summon animal (swarm creatures only); Cantrips (2nd) message
Rituals DC 17; infernal pact
Cocytan Filth (disease, virulent) Saving Throw DC 18 Fortitude; Onset 1d4 days;
Stage 1 enfeebled 1 (1 day); Stage 2 enfeebled 2 (1 day); Stage 3 enfeebled 3 (1 day)
Infernal Eye ̂ˬ (divine, divination) The zebub records everything they see,
and though they don’t remember all observations, they can pass them along
to another creature. The zebub replays 10 minutes of witnessed
events to a touched willing creature, which receives the memories
in a ﬂash of information. By remaining in contact, the zebub can
spend additional 3-action activities to replay more information. After relaying
their visions to another, the zebub can’t ever recall those events again.
Sneak Attack The zebub’s Strikes deal an additional 1d6 precision damage to
ﬂat-footed creatures.
SARGLAGON (DROWNING DEVIL)
Sarglagons dwell in Hell’s myriad waterways, lakes, and oceans. They serve
as guardians of the Academy of Lies—the repository of secrets in Stygia, the
ﬁfth layer of Hell. Sarglagons breathe water and air with equal ease, and
can move through water, land, and even air with uncanny swiftness.
Few ﬁends travel the waterways of the multiverse, but where a river
crosses the planes, odds are sarglagons have traveled it to further their
infernal machinations. The only body of water they avoid is the River Styx, as the
ﬁends have yet to develop any defense against that waterway’s memory-sapping
qualities. Mortal spellcasters sometimes bind sarglagons as guardians of precious
secrets or treasures, particularly in aquatic areas. Most strangely, sarglagons
sometimes act as unnerving caretakers to mortals who have no idea what
they did to earn their unwanted protectors’ attention. The constant uninvited
vigilance of these devils is often disturbing and stiﬂing to their wards.
i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> F b 23 2023
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Feb 23, 2023
24868570
4425082
