i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> F b 23 2023
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Feb 23, 2023
24868600
4425112
Bestiary 2
102
102
DRAUGR SHIPS
When an entire ship’s crew dies
in one calamity, they might rise
simultaneously, bound together in
death. Tirelessly plaguing the seas,
these draugr crews slowly corrupt
their vessels. The cursed ships often
exhibit unsettling phenomena, such
as being able to sail against the wind
or leaving schools of dead ﬁsh in
their wake. Sea shanties tell of draugr
raiders approaching during the night,
wreathed in fog pierced only by the
green glow emanating from their eyes.
Draugr
Risen corpses of sailors who died at sea, draugr reek of the rot and decay of
the briny deep. Their eyes glow with ghastly green light, and rotting seaweed,
barnacles, and dead sea creatures cling to their bodies. Draugr can’t speak, but
expresses their malicious emotions with gurgles, as though they were eternally
drowning with lungs full of water. They desire little more than to attack living
creatures, especially those who sail the sea. Even when they go upon land, draugrs
often drag the corpses of those they strike down back to the water, populating the
depths with even more dead.
Draugr rise in the haunted places of the sea, where restless spirits, swells of negative
energy, or supernatural storms deliver death. A corpse might rest at the bottom of the
sea for some time before awakening as a draugr. Collecting detritus and organisms, a
corpse becomes increasingly disgusting before it ﬁnally rises. Proximity to intelligent
life can expedite this process, and an underwater explorer who happens upon a
shipwreck might cause a body to snap to unlife as a draugr suddenly. The creatures
don’t take intrusions lightly, especially upon their place of death.
Though steeped in evil, draugr are susceptible to reminders of their lives as
mariners. In particular, a well-performed sea shanty or call-and-response work
song might cause a draugr to become lost in reverie for a moment. The creatures
have even been witnessed moaning along, unable to sing the words but
providing haunting accompaniment. The lull rarely lasts long, though, as the
beauty of the song quickly becomes a reminder of the tragedy that befell the
draugr, reafﬁrming their desire for blood and death.
More powerful draugr with burning red eyes are called draugr
captains. They’re 3rd-level creatures with elite adjustments
(page 6) that can cast obscuring mist as an innate divine spell
three times per day.
DRAUGR
CREATURE 2
CE
MEDIUM
UNDEAD
WATER
Perception +7; darkvision
Languages Common (can’t speak any language)
Skills Athletics +10, Stealth +8
Str +4, Dex +2, Con +3, Int –1, Wis +1, Cha +1
Items greataxe, leather armor
AC 17; Fort +11, Ref +6, Will +7
HP 35; negative healing; Immunities death eﬀects, disease, paralyzed,
poison, unconscious; Weaknesses positive 5; Resistances ﬁre 3
The Sea’s Revenge (curse, divine, necromancy) A creature that slays a
draugr is subjected to a mariner’s curse spell with a save DC of 17. The
curse ends if the draugr is buried in a calm sea or after 1 week passes.
Speed 25 feet, swim 25 feet
Melee Ȱɵ greataxe +10 (sweep), Damage 1d12+4 slashing plus
grotesque gift
Melee Ȱɵ fist +10 (agile), Damage 1d4+4 slashing plus
grotesque gift
Grotesque Gift (olfactory) A draugr’s attacks spatter
their targets with rancid ﬂesh and rotting seaweed.
A creature damaged by a draugr’s Strike must
succeed at a DC 15 Fortitude save or become
sickened 1 (sickened 2 on a critical failure).
Swipe ʚʖ The draugr makes a melee Strike and
compares the attack roll result to the AC of up to two
foes, each of whom must be within its melee reach
and adjacent to each other. Roll damage only once and
apply it to each creature hit. A Swipe counts as two
attacks for the draugr’s multiple attack penalty.
i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> F b 23 2023
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Feb 23, 2023
24868600
4425112
