i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> F b 23 2023
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Feb 23, 2023
24868538
4425050
Bestiary 2
40
40
BLINK DOG SAGES
In every blink dog pack, the wisest
and most intelligent member of
the pack is chosen by the alpha to
act as the pack’s sage. The sage is
charged with maintaining the long-
running oral histories and tales of
the pack, to bind all packs together
in one story that spans centuries.
The sage often has a closer bond to
the mysteries and hidden paths of
magic than the average blink dog, a
result of their advanced years. They
counsel the alpha on all matters
pertaining to the stars, omens,
tactics, and even diplomacy.
Blink Dog
At ﬁrst glance, blink dogs seem to be little more than long-eared, bearded canines
with tawny coats. Yet their intelligent eyes and the blue nimbus of energy that
dances across their fur hint at not only the blink dog’s inherent intelligence, but
also of their connection to the occult energies and mysteries that hide beyond the
sight of the untrained eye. These honorable creatures are as intelligent as most
humanoids. They live and hunt in large packs, roaming forests, plains, and the
hidden places of the world in hunt for evil creatures—particularly those that dwell
in the depths of the Ethereal Plane.
Unless acting in concert with speciﬁc allies who have proven that their goals
are shared, blink dogs tend to avoid other creatures if at all possible. Their packs
are constantly on the move and hidden from those that would seek them out.
But in times of need, they have been known to come to the rescue of villages and
lost travelers. While they have no innate ability to travel to the Ethereal Plane for
extended periods of time, all blink dogs constantly shimmer and ripple between
the Material Plane and the Ethereal. They do their best to use their ability to blink
to snatch glimpses into the Ethereal Plane and keep track of potential threats that
might be building there, but in practice this tactic yields more of a constant stream
of hunches and estimations of Ethereal-based threats. Of course, to a blink dog,
this constant state of ﬂux is as natural as breathing.
Pack leadership always falls to a pair—an elder blink dog (called
an alpha) who relies upon the valued guidance of a trusted
pack mate (the sage). Honor and tradition are keystones of
blink dog society. They are ﬁercely loyal, defending
the pack or creatures they befriend to the
death and maintaining oaths handed
down from litter to litter. Though
different packs hold different traditions
and oaths, their connection through
the tales and stories told among their
kind and the shared experience of the
movement of stars above weave all blink
dogs into an extended family, a great pack. Through
their myths and folklore, blink dogs have names for
celestial phenomena, note births under auspicious stars,
and read omens from unusual
stellar
conjunctions.
These
celestial signs are woven into
blink dogs’ lifeways; their names
contain a reference to the speciﬁc
constellation under which they were born, and a pack’s sage
watches the heavens for signs to help them decide when a pup is
old enough for their ﬁrst hunt.
BLINK DOG
CREATURE 2
UNCOMMON
LG
MEDIUM
BEAST
Perception +8; darkvision, scent (imprecise) 30 feet
Languages Sylvan
Skills Acrobatics +8, Stealth +8, Survival +8
Str +1, Dex +3, Con +2, Int +1, Wis +4, Cha +2
AC 18, Fort +8, Ref +10, Will +11
HP 30
Speed 35 feet
Melee Ȱɵ jaws (agile, ﬁnesse) +11, Damage 1d6+3 piercing
Occult Innate Spells DC 18, 4th dimension door; Constant (4th) blink
Pack Attack The blink dog’s Strikes deal an additional 1d4 damage to creatures within
the reach of at least two of the blink dog’s allies.
i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> F b 23 2023
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Feb 23, 2023
24868538
4425050
