i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> F b 23 2023
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Feb 23, 2023
24868678
4425190
Bestiary 2
180
180
OTHER NECROPHIDIUSES
Ultimately, a necrophidius’s abilities
are the result of its creators’
designs. Some have diﬀerent
immunities or have bites that deal
poison, cold, or negative damage
instead of inﬂicting paralysis. There
are even rumors of soulbound
necrophidiuses whose creators
arranged for the soul of the skull’s
donor to empower the construct.
These necrophidiuses are not only
sentient but also have the facility to
reason and even cast spells.
Necrophidius
Although the necrophidius is a mindless construct with no particular ability to
comprehend the complexities of good or evil, these sinister-looking constructs are
often crafted by evil or macabre creators seeking to imbue their guardians with a
frightening aesthetic.
Constructed from bones harvested from serpents and humans, a necrophidius
is animated by occult magic, not unlife. Each necrophidius is built from the
skeleton of a large snake, but its skull has been replaced by that of a humanoid
creature. Some death cults or particularly cruel crafters seek out the skulls of
speciﬁc individuals against whom they bear grudges to provide the head for their
necrophidius. The ﬁnal step of the construction is the alteration of the teeth and
jaws to give the creature a more serpentine visage, complete with fangs.
If a necrophidius’s creator dies, the construct follows the last series of commands
it was given. If it cannot do so, the necrophidius aimlessly wanders the area near
where it last served its creator and attacks any creatures it encounters. Some believe
that those who know the secrets of a necrophidius’s origins can command it,
provided its original creator no longer exists and no one else currently commands
it. There are also a number of reports concerning strangely aware and intelligent
necrophidiuses that roam with a purpose and track down or hunt speciﬁc living
creatures they interpret as the targets of former assassination missions.
NECROPHIDIUS
CREATURE 3
N
MEDIUM
CONSTRUCT
MINDLESS
Perception +9, darkvision
Skills Acrobatics +9, Athletics +10, Stealth +9
Str +3, Dex +4, Con +0, Int –5, Wis +2, Cha –5
AC 19; Fort +7, Ref +11, Will +9
HP 50; Immunities bleed, death eﬀects, disease, doomed, drained,
fatigued, healing, mental, necromancy, nonlethal attacks, paralyzed,
poison, sickened, unconscious; Weaknesses bludgeoning 5
Speed 25 feet
Melee Ȱɵ jaws +8 (agile, ﬁnesse), Damage 1d10+3 piercing plus
necrophidic paralysis
Dance of Death ̂ˬ (enchantment, mental, occult, visual) The
necrophidius sways, its serpentine form undulating and
clattering in a hypnotic rhythm. Each creature that witnesses
the dance must attempt a DC 18 Will save.
Critical Success The creature is unaﬀected and is
temporarily immune for 24 hours.
Success The creature is unnerved by the swaying
and becomes ﬂat-footed until the end of the
necrophidius’s next turn.
Failure The creature is distracted by the
swaying, becoming stunned 1. After
it recovers, it is ﬂat-footed until the
end of the necrophidius’s next turn.
Critical Failure As failure, but
stunned 3.
Necrophidic Paralysis (incapacitation,
occult, necromancy) A living creature
bitten by a necrophidius must
succeed at a DC 20 Fortitude save or
become paralyzed. It can attempt a new
save at the end of each of its turns, and the
DC cumulatively decreases by 1 for each save
attempted. A creature that succeeds at this save is
temporarily immune to necrophidic paralysis for 24 hours.
i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> F b 23 2023
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Feb 23, 2023
24868678
4425190
