i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> F b 23 2023
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Feb 23, 2023
24868761
4425273
S-T
S-T
263
263
Introduction
A-C
D
E-G
H-K
L-N
O-R
S-T
U-Z
Appendix
TRITON CONCH TRUMPETS
Tritons use a conch shell as a focus
to summon aquatic allies. Some
specialize in diﬀerent uses of the
conch, such as frightening foes (as
the fear spell) or using water for
attacks (as the spell hydraulic push).
Triton conch shells in the hands
of non-tritons do not produce any
magical eﬀects, but have inspired
other crafters to build magical
triton’s conches (Core Rulebook 576).
Triton
While sometimes understandably mistaken for merfolk—both species live
underwater and have a blend of features from both humans and ﬁsh—tritons
have two legs instead of a tail. This gives tritons the ability to operate on land,
though they are neither as comfortable nor as skilled above water as below.
The arms and legs of a triton feature ﬁns that assist in swimming, and their
entire body is covered in ﬁne scales that range in color from silver to cerulean
blue to seaweed green. Their amphibious nature shows in the webbing between
the digits of their feet and hands, as well as the fact that they have both gills and
a human-shaped nose and mouth. Triton hair grows in wide strands like seagrass,
commonly green in shade but in some cases blue or white. Their eyes range in
color from sea blue to golden.
Many tritons see themselves as defenders of the deep, dedicating their lives to
protecting the inhabitants of the seas from evil creatures and intruders—whether
they come from underwater or the surface world. Primary among triton foes are
sea devils and alghollthu, both of whom have amphibious forces that tritons
have had to ﬁght underwater and on land.
In their quest to ﬁght underwater evil, tritons sometimes ally with dolphins
and sea turtles (both of which make excellent mounts), water elementals, and
sometimes even sharks and sea serpents. Tritons can summon such allies using
a conch shell as a trumpet. When it comes to other intelligent undersea
species, however, tritons take pride in their self-sufﬁciency, rarely trading
with other underwater peoples such as merfolk, and even more rarely
forming established alliances.
Tritons live in natural-grown villages on the sea ﬂoor,
forging dwellings out of colorful coral reefs, in rift valleys
heated by volcanic activity, and even in underwater canyons—
though they avoid settling in extreme depths due to
the risk of encountering krakens or worse. They
like to decorate their homes with aquatic plants,
bioluminescent ﬁsh, and attractive trinkets recovered
from shipwrecks.
TRITON
CREATURE 2
NG
MEDIUM
AMPHIBIOUS
HUMANOID
Perception +8; darkvision
Languages Aquan, Common
Skills Athletics +8, Crafting +4, Diplomacy +6, Nature +6,
Stealth +9
Str +4, Dex +3, Con +1, Int +0, Wis +2, Cha +0
Items conch shell, shell armor (hide armor), trident
AC 18; Fort +5, Ref +11, Will +8
HP 30
Speed 5 feet, swim 35 feet
Melee Ȱɵ trident +10, Damage 1d8+6 piercing
Ranged Ȱɵ trident +9 (thrown 20 feet), Damage 1d8+6 piercing
Defender of the Seas Ȱɵ The triton Interacts to raise their trident, gaining a +1
circumstance bonus to AC until the start of their next turn. During this time,
any of their allies also gains the bonus while adjacent to the triton.
Summon Aquatic Ally ̂ˬ (conjuration, primal) Frequency once per
day; Effect The triton blows into a conch shell, casting a 2nd-
level summon animal spell. The triton can summon only
an aquatic creature, such as a dolphin (page 84), octopus
(page 187), ray (page 226), sea snake (page 245), or electric
eel (Bestiary 142). This creature remains until it is slain, the
triton Dismisses it, or the triton summons another ally.
i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> F b 23 2023
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Feb 23, 2023
24868761
4425273
