i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> F b 23 2023
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Feb 23, 2023
24868641
4425153
H-K
H-K
143
143
Introduction
A-C
D
E-G
H-K
L-N
O-R
S-T
U-Z
Appendix
HIPPOGRIFF EGGS
Rather than birthing live young,
hippogriﬀs lay a clutch consisting of
only a single egg. Hippogriﬀ eggs are
sought after by potential trainers and
opportunists alike.
Hippogriff
With the proud bearing of a great raptor and the magniﬁcence of a powerful
horse, hippogriffs are thought to be an accidental fusion of creatures or perhaps
the creation of a ﬂesh-warping wizard with a keen aesthetic sense. Regardless of
their original source, these animals are now a common sight in the skies above
their favored plains or hill country.
Hippogriffs bear the wings, forelegs, and head of a bird of prey, with feather
coloration similar to that of a hawk or eagle, though some breeders have
managed to produce specimens with stark-white or coal-black feathers. Their
torso, hindquarters, and tail resemble those of a horse and usually are
colored bay, chestnut, or gray, with some coats bearing black, pinto, or
even palomino coloration.
Hippogriffs are similar in size to large horses. Much like their
equine cousins, hippogriffs often have to keep wary eyes on the skies
above them, as both are preferred meals for hungry griffons and
wyverns. Only hippogriffs’ superior speed helps protect them from
these predators.
Hippogriffs are exceptionally territorial and ﬁercely protect the
lands under their domain. They typically favor sweeping grasslands,
rolling hills, and prairies. Exceptionally hardy hippogriffs make their
homes nestled into niches on canyon walls, from which they comb
the rocky deserts for coyotes, deer, and the occasional humanoid.
Hippogriffs prefer mammalian prey, but they graze after every meal
to aid in digestion.
Since hippogriff hunting habits can be dangerous to both
ranchers and their livestock, such communities often set
bounties on hippogriffs. As a result, preserved hippogriffs
frequently decorate frontier taverns and remote
outposts alongside the taxidermic remains of deer,
elk, and bears.
However, other communities train hippogriffs from
hatching to be ridden by elite soldiers in combat—
the most notable among these groups in the Inner
Sea region is the Sable Company Mercenaries in the city-
state of Korvosa. Attempts are sometimes made to train adult
hippogriffs in the same manner, but this often proves far more
difﬁcult. Hippogriff riders must use special saddles and combat
techniques that allow them to act in concert with their mount,
ﬁghting effectively while avoiding interfering with the movement
of their companion’s wings.
HIPPOGRIFF
CREATURE 2
N
LARGE
ANIMAL
Perception +8; darkvision, scent (imprecise) 30 feet
Skills Acrobatics +7, Athletics +7, Survival +6
Str +3, Dex +3, Con +2, Int –4, Wis +2, Cha +0
AC 18; Fort +8, Ref +9, Will +6
HP 32
Buck Ǻȓ DC 17
Speed 30 feet, ﬂy 65 feet
Melee Ȱɵ beak +9, Damage 1d10+3 piercing
Melee Ȱɵ talon +9 (agile), Damage 1d6+3 slashing
Melee Ȱɵ wing +9 (reach 10 feet), Damage 1d6+3 bludgeoning
Flying Strafe ʚʖ The hippogriﬀ Flies up to its ﬂy speed and makes two
talon Strikes at any point during that movement. Each Strike must
target a diﬀerent creature. The attacks take the normal multiple
attack penalty.
i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> F b 23 2023
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Feb 23, 2023
24868641
4425153
