i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> F b 23 2023
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Feb 23, 2023
24868510
4425022
Bestiary 2
1212
Ahuizotl
The ahuizotl is a vicious, semi-aquatic predator that resembles a hideous
cross between a badger and an otter, with disturbingly web-ﬁngered paws
supplemented by a ﬁfth hand at the end of a long, serpentine tail. A clever and
stealthy hunter, the ahuizotl lures unwary prey to their doom by mimicking the
cries of people in distress. The ahuizotl’s macabre habit of feeding on a victim’s
eyes, ﬁngernails, and teeth leaves the corpses of its kills uniquely mutilated.
Some say the creatures consider these body parts delicacies, while others insist
ahuizotls collect them as tribute to a powerful but unknown entity. The fact
that an ahuizotl does not eat the actual ﬂesh of its victims, instead depositing
their savaged and waterlogged corpses in locations where the remains are sure
to be found by friends or family, points to a third and perhaps more likely
possibility—the ahuizotl simply enjoys using its violent dietary quirks to spread
fear and despair.
An ahuizotl walks on all fours, but its hands are capable of manipulating
simple tools and other objects. Ahuizotls have roughly mustelid features and an
extra membrane covering their eyes, giving their eyes a dull color suggestive of
cataracts and somewhat blunting the creature’s vision. Yet despite their bestial
appearance, ahuizotls are nearly as intelligent as the average human, and wiser
than most. Although they don’t form societies of their own, they have been
known to ally with violent cults or conclaves of monsters, and even to found
small shrines and temples to sinister deities. The cult of Charon, the horseman
of Death, is particularly popular among certain ahuizotls, who look forward to
an afterlife spent wallowing in the waters of the River Styx.
AHUIZOTL
CREATURE 6
UNCOMMON
NE
LARGE
AMPHIBIOUS
BEAST
Perception +13; darkvision
Languages Aklo, Common
Skills Athletics +15, Deception +15 (+19 when
using Voice Imitation), Stealth +15
Str +5, Dex +3, Con +5, Int –1, Wis +3, Cha +3
Voice Imitation An ahuizotl can mimic
the sounds of a person in distress by
attempting a Deception check to Lie.
The ahuizotl has a +4 circumstance
bonus to this check.
AC 23; Fort +17, Ref +13, Will +13
HP 105
Speed 25 feet, swim 35 feet
Melee Ȱɵ jaws +17, Damage 2d8+8 piercing
Melee Ȱɵ claw +17 (agile), Damage 2d6+8 slashing
Melee Ȱɵ tail claw +17 (agile, reach 10 feet), Damage 2d4+8
slashing plus Improved Grab
Tail Drag Ȱɵ Requirements The ahuizotl has a Medium
or smaller creature grabbed with its tail claw;
Eﬀect The ahuizotl attempts an Athletics check
against the creature’s Fortitude DC.
Critical Success If the creature is 10 feet
away from the ahuizotl, it is dragged into
a square adjacent to the ahuizotl. The ahuizotl
can make a jaws Strike against the creature.
Success If the creature is 10 feet away from the ahuizotl, it is dragged into
a square adjacent to the ahuizotl.
Failure The creature is not dragged.
Critical Failure The creature is not dragged and the ahuizotl
no longer has the creature grabbed.
AHUIZOTL ALLIES
An ahuizotl is unexpectedly
canny in how it handles potential
competitors in its territory, and
when presented with fellow
predators capable of conversation,
it sometimes brokers alliances. Will-
o’-wisps are particular favorites as
allies, as they can lure prey into the
ahuizotl’s clutches and feast on the
anguish later when the mutilated
corpse is discovered.
i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> F b 23 2023
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Feb 23, 2023
24868510
4425022
