i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> F b 23 2023
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Feb 23, 2023
24868516
4425028
Bestiary 2
1818
Animate Dream
An animate dream coalesces from centuries of stray fragments of reverie and
dream left behind as slumbering minds drift through the Dimension of Dreams.
In most cases, these fragments simply disperse on their own, but when dreamers
ﬂee from nightmares back to the waking world, these fragments can take on a
supernatural life of their own. They have little reasoning and intent except to seek
similar fragments, absorb them, and grow. When enough of them gather together,
they merge into a horriﬁc form as an animate dream.
Individually, animate dreams can hold a wide range of appearances, but most
take on rudimentary shapes akin to the living forms of the minds that spawned
them. Animate dreams that rise from slumbering humanoids, the most commonly
encountered, thus appear humanoid, but with distorted, nightmarish shapes
that incorporate additional twisted limbs and frightening features. In these
forms, animate dreams ﬁnd their way out of the Dreamlands and into the
waking world, only to discover they have no way of returning and suffer a
relentless hunger that only new nightmares can sate.
An animate dream thrives on the terror fueled by nightmares and
fear and uses its supernatural abilities to invoke such feelings in the
minds of its victims, cursing its prey by creating a permanent link
to that individual’s dreams. Thereafter, the victim is subjected to all
manner of reoccurring nightmares. As the nightmares continue, the
victim ﬁnds it more and more difﬁcult to remain awake. In the end,
the victim plunges into an accursed slumber from which it cannot
return. These victims provide the animate dream with the purest form
of fear and are its preferred sustenance.
An animate dream can subsist on the ambient fear generated by regular
nightmares, but these lesser fears aren’t as satisfying, often driving the
animate dream to seek out new victims. Left without a source of fear, an
animate dream won’t starve to death, but it will grow increasingly violent
and desperate. Famished animate dreams are the ones most often
encountered, as they have been forced to abandon subtlety to pursue
more blatant methods of harvesting fear. Yet such animate dreams also
tend to be the least powerful of their kind. Those who have grown
metaphysically fat on fear have generally done so by adopting a speciﬁc
nightmare theme, such as being buried alive, being swept away by ocean
waves, or being consumed by wild beasts. Such animate dreams often have
similarly themed innate spells to augment their powers.
ANIMATE DREAM
CREATURE 8
UNCOMMON
NE
MEDIUM
DREAM
INCORPOREAL
Perception +14, darkvision
Languages telepathy 100 feet
Skills Acrobatics +14, Deception +18, Intimidation +18, Occultism +12, Stealth +18
Str –5, Dex +4, Con +3, Int +0, Wis +2, Cha +6
AC 24; Fort +15, Ref +18, Will +14; +1 status to all saves vs. magic
HP 110; Immunities disease, paralyzed, poison, precision, sleep; Resistances all 5
(except force, ghost touch, or negative; double resistance vs. non-magical)
Speed ﬂy 40 feet
Melee Ȱɵ nightmare tendril +20 (agile, ﬁnesse), Damage 4d8 negative plus endless
nightmare
Occult Innate Spells DC 26; 4th confusion, dimension door (at will), nightmare,
phantasmal killer, sleep; 3rd fear
Endless Nightmare (curse, emotion, enchantment, fear, mental, occult) An animate
dream’s touch ﬁlls the victim’s mind with terrifying visions; Saving Throw DC 26
Fortitude; Stage 1 fatigued (1 day); Stage 2 fatigued and stupeﬁed 1 (1 day);
Stage 3 The victim falls asleep and can’t be awakened as long as they remain at
this stage (1 day).
ENSLAVED DREAMS
Night hags have been known to
enslave animate dreams, forcing
them to feed upon themselves. These
captives break down into a fearful
essence used for the hag’s rituals, such
as the crafting of heartstones.
i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> F b 23 2023
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Feb 23, 2023
24868516
4425028
