i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> F b 23 2023
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Feb 23, 2023
24868698
4425210
Bestiary 2
200
200
GENIEKIN PARENTAGE
Planar scions from the elemental
planes are known as geniekin because
they are overwhelmingly born from
couplings between mortals and
genies: ifrits are born of efreet, oreads
of shaitans, sulis of jann, sylphs of
djinn, and undines of marids. Despite
this distinguished ancestry, geniekin
do not display most of their parents’
exceptional talents, such as their
ability to grant wishes.
Planar Scion, Geniekin
Geniekin are mortals whose ancestry has become entangled with that of genies,
causing them to exhibit elemental powers drawn from the Elemental Planes. Though
the geniekin found here are all of human descent and have example alignments,
geniekin and other planar scions can descend from other ancestries and have any
alignment. More information on genies can be found on page 162 of the Bestiary.
IFRIT
Ifrits’ blood blazes with elemental ﬁre. Most ifrits are second-class citizens who
serve under the iron heel of the efreeti and their Dominion of Flame, but those
born outside the efreet hierarchy or who choose to ﬂee it live
lives of passion in search of fame, glory, and power.
Ifrits are fond of ﬁre, but this doesn’t mean they all
embrace ﬁre’s destructive nature. Those who seek
more productive roles in a society ﬁnd inspiration in
the way ﬂames ﬂit and dance, and they pride themselves
in their skills as acrobats or dancers. The church of
Sarenrae particularly welcomes ifrit ﬁre dancers, both in
appreciation of their skill and to help ensure these ifrits
have a safe place apart from their more violent kin.
But by and large, ifrits are drawn to professions and
callings that allow them to wallow in the glories of ﬁre.
Ifrit pyrochemists apply this calling to alchemical
teachings, seeing purity in every single bomb thrown
or conﬂagration lit.
IFRIT PYROCHEMIST
CREATURE 1
LE
MEDIUM
HUMAN
HUMANOID
IFRIT
Perception +3
Languages Common, Ignan
Skills Acrobatics +6, Crafting +6, Intimidation +4,
Nature +3, Survival +3, Thievery +6
Str +0, Dex +3, Con +2, Int +3, Wis +0, Cha +1
Items alchemist’s tools, dagger, ﬂint and steel, formula book,
studded leather
Infused Items An ifrit pyrochemist carries the following
infused items, which last for 24 hours or until the next time
the pyrochemist makes their daily preparations: lesser
alchemist’s ﬁre (5), lesser elixir of life (2), lesser smokestick.
AC 18; Fort +5, Ref +6, Will +3
HP 18; Resistances ﬁre 1
Speed 25 feet
Melee Ȱɵ dagger +8 (agile, ﬁnesse, thrown 10 feet, versatile S),
Damage 1d4 piercing
Ranged Ȱɵ lesser alchemist’s ﬁre +8 (range increment 30 feet), Damage 1d8
ﬁre plus 1 persistent ﬁre damage and 1 ﬁre splash damage
Primal Innate Spells DC 16, attack +8; Cantrips (1st) produce ﬂame
Quick Bomber Ȱɵ The ifrit pyrochemist draws an alchemical bomb with an Interact
action and throws it as a ranged Strike.
OREAD
Elemental earth laces through the bones of oreads, who appear similar to stone
statues of their mortal ancestry, with delicate crystals in place of hair, fur, or
scales. Oreads are stoic and slow to plan but are of steadfast resolve and
unwavering in their convictions.
The typical oread cherishes quiet seclusion. Yet as they age, many
oreads ﬁnd themselves inexplicably drawn to some far-ﬂung location
i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> F b 23 2023
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Feb 23, 2023
24868698
4425210
