i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> F b 23 2023
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Feb 23, 2023
24868648
4425160
Bestiary 2
150
150
JABBERWOCK TREASURE
Jabberwocks have no interest
in treasure for its own sake, but
they gather objects of great value
or power speciﬁcally to entice
mortals into seeking it out. As a
result, jabberwocks quickly amass
impressive hoards of treasures taken
from nearby areas.
Jabberwock
Few beasts have inspired as many legends, poems, songs, and myths in as many
cultures, as this bizarre draconic creature. The jabberwock hails from the fey
realm of the First World and is part of a group of powerful First World creatures
known collectively as the Tane.
Like all members of the Tane, jabberwocks are living creatures that age, eat,
drink, and sleep, but do not reproduce normally. Instead, they are created directly
by the godlike Eldest who rule the First World, and they serve at the pleasure (or
frustration) of these capricious and mysterious entities. Believed to be the most
powerful of all the Tane, jabberwocks are typically only ever created with one
purpose: to wreak destruction and havoc upon the Material Plane. One of the
Eldest might send a jabberwock to devastate a country, continent, or even
entire world in order to get revenge for some slight made against them by a
single mortal. Sometimes, no speciﬁc insult or injury is required, as some of
the Eldest resent the very existence of the Material Plane and periodically
create jabberwocks simply to express the wrath of the First World against its
younger and less chaotic sibling.
Once a jabberwock arrives on the Material Plane, its ﬁrst order of business
is to seek out a lair. It prefers dwelling in remote forest locations about a day’s
ﬂight from civilization—the more dangerous the woodland is to those who might
eventually come hunting it, the better!
The relationship between jabberwocks
and vorpal weapons is the subject
of much debate and speculation
among scholars, and the various
poems, songs, and legends about the
jabberwock do little to clarify the issue,
conﬂicting and diverging on this point.
Some believe that vorpal weapons
were ﬁrst created speciﬁcally
to combat jabberwocks, but
others take the story one step
further. They cite evidence
in certain ancient myths that
there may once have been only
a single, unique jabberwock,
so powerful that nothing
could so much as scratch
it—nothing, that is, except
for the ﬁrst vorpal sword,
crafted for that very purpose.
So epic was the resulting battle
that it created strange echoes
throughout reality, and as a result,
these echoes, in the form of vorpal
weapons, can now be found on
many worlds. Those who subscribe to this
belief claim that the jabberwocks seen today
are but pale imitations of this proto-jabberwock,
and they speculate that only the combined efforts of
several Eldest would be sufﬁcient to create such a
creature again.
VARIANT JABBERWOCKS
The Eldest have sometimes altered certain aspects of the
jabberwocks they create. Some of the more notorious or
legendary variant jabberwocks include the following.
i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> F b 23 2023
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Feb 23, 2023
24868648
4425160
