i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> F b 23 2023
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Feb 23, 2023
24868806
4425318
Bestiary 2
308
308
and inevitables communicate via a strange telepathic
hodgepodge of sensory sending called envisioning.
Air Creatures with this trait consist primarily of air or have a
magical connection to that element.
Amphibious An amphibious creature can breathe in water and
in air, even outside of its preferred environment, usually
indeﬁnitely but at least for hours. These creatures often
have a swim Speed. Their bludgeoning and slashing unarmed
Strikes don’t take the usual –2 penalty for being underwater.
Angel This family of celestials is native to the plane of Nirvana.
Most angels are neutral good, have darkvision, and have a
weakness to evil damage.
Animal An animal is a creature with a relatively low
intelligence. It typically doesn’t have an Intelligence modiﬁer
above –4, can’t speak languages, and can’t be trained in
Intelligence‑based skills.
Aquatic Aquatic creatures are at home underwater. Their
bludgeoning and slashing unarmed Strikes don’t take the
usual –2 penalty for being underwater. Aquatic creatures
can breathe water but not air.
Archon Members of this family of celestials are the protectors
of Heaven and are lawful good. They have darkvision and a
weakness to evil damage.
Azata This family of celestials is native to Elysium. They are
chaotic good and have darkvision and a weakness to evil
and cold iron.
Beast A creature similar to an animal but with an Intelligence
modiﬁer of –3 or higher is usually a beast. Unlike an animal,
a beast might be able to speak and reason.
Caligni These subterranean people have darkvision, and some
have powers to create darkness.
Celestial Creatures that hail from or have a strong connection
to the good-aligned planes are called celestials. Celestials
can survive the basic environmental eﬀects of planes in the
Outer Sphere.
Cold Creatures with this trait have a magical connection to cold.
Construct A construct is an artiﬁcial creature empowered
by a force other than necromancy. Constructs are often
mindless; they are immune to bleed damage, death
eﬀects, disease, healing, necromancy, nonlethal attacks,
poison, and the doomed, drained, fatigued, paralyzed,
sickened, and unconscious conditions; and they may
have Hardness based on the materials used to construct
their bodies. Constructs are not living creatures, nor are
they undead. When reduced to 0 Hit Points, a construct
creature is destroyed.
Couatl A family of supernatural feathered serpents who serve
as guardians and messengers on the Material Plane for
various good-aligned divinities.
Daemon A family of ﬁends spawned on the desolate plane
of Abaddon, most daemons are neutral evil. They
typically have darkvision and weakness to good
damage.
Demon A family of ﬁends hailing from the Abyss,
most demons are chaotic evil. Most
demons have darkvision and weakness
to good damage.
Devil A family of ﬁends from Hell, most devils
are lawful evil. They typically have greater
darkvision, weakness to good damage,
immunity to ﬁre, and telepathy.
Dinosaur These reptiles have survived
from prehistoric times.
Dragon Dragons are reptilian creatures,
often winged or with the power of ﬂight.
Most are able to use a breath weapon and are
immune to sleep and the paralyzed condition.
Dream Creatures native to the Dimension of Dreams
can be any alignment and possess a diverse array
of abilities, although those associated with the
nightmare realm of Leng are almost always evil and
immune to that realm’s freezing temperatures.
Earth Creatures with this trait consist primarily of earth or
have a magical connection to that element.
Electricity Creatures with this trait have a magical connection
to electricity.
Elemental Elementals are creatures directly tied to an element
and are native to the Elemental Planes. Elementals don’t
need to breathe.
Ethereal Ethereal creatures are natives of the Ethereal Plane.
They can survive the basic environmental eﬀects of the
Ethereal Plane.
Fetchling A creature with this trait is a member of
i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> F b 23 2023
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Feb 23, 2023
24868806
4425318
