i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> F b 23 2023
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Feb 23, 2023
24868760
4425272
Bestiary 2
262
262
FLESH SCULPTORS
Some totenmaskes craft macabre
“art” by shaping the ﬂesh of their
victims, spending hours, days, or
even weeks molding a victim’s skin,
or even fusing multiple creatures
together into one piece. The
horrifying results of this process can
take the form of furniture made from
ﬂesh that still lives and breathes,
“sculptures” that in no way resemble
the human form, and even more
twisted and depraved things.
Totenmaske
Spawned by the same unnatural and self-destructive obsessions that drove them
when they were alive, totenmaskes are the undead remnants of the most self-
indulgent and sinful among us. Though unable to sate their perverse desires, these
foul undead can drain the very ﬂesh from their victims so as to wrap themselves
in a perverse mockery of life that allows them to pursue their base wants.
Totenmaskes’ speciﬁc longings vary—one might be obsessed with food or drink,
while another might be vain and desirous of an attractive form to marvel at in a
mirror, while yet another could simply long for the scent of blood. Whatever the
sensation the totenmaske seeks, it is always a vice taken to extreme, for this sin is
what helped condemn it to unlife in the ﬁrst place. A totenmaske obsessed with
food, for example, might ﬁnd itself assaulting bakeries or breweries, while a vain
totenmaske obsessed with glamor could quickly grow bored of each new look and
switch its victims out daily, or even hourly.
TOTENMASKE
CREATURE 7
NE
MEDIUM
UNDEAD
Perception +15, darkvision
Languages Common, Necril
Skills Acrobatics +15, Deception +17, Stealth +17, Thievery +15
Str +4, Dex +6, Con +2, Int +1, Wis +2, Cha +3
AC 25; Fort +15, Ref +17, Will +13
HP 128, negative healing; Immunities death eﬀects, disease, paralyzed, poison, unconscious
Speed 40 feet
Melee Ȱɵ jaws +18 (ﬁnesse), Damage 2d6+7 piercing plus 2d6 negative
Melee Ȱɵ claw +18 (agile, ﬁnesse), Damage 2d8+7 slashing
Drink Flesh Ȱɵ (divine, necromancy) Requirement The totenmaske hit the same
enemy with two claw Strikes this turn and is still adjacent to it; Eﬀect
The totenmaske drains ﬂesh from the creature’s body. The creature
becomes sickened 2 and drained 1 unless it succeeds at a DC 25
Fortitude save (sickened 2 and drained 2 on a critical failure).
Living Form Ȱɵ (concentrate, divine, polymorph, transmutation)
The totenmaske takes the appearance of a Medium or
smaller humanoid creature. This is either its form
from before it became undead, or the form of
the last creature it successfully hit with Drink
Flesh. This doesn’t change the totenmaske’s
Speed or the attack and damage bonuses for its
Strikes, but might change the damage type its
Strikes deal (typically to bludgeoning).
Shape Flesh (curse, divine, necromancy) After spending
1 minute in contact with a paralyzed, unconscious,
or willing creature, a totenmaske can reshape the
target’s face, causing ﬂesh to cover vital features.
The target can attempt a DC 25 Fortitude save
to resist; a critical success grants temporary
immunity to Shape Flesh for 24 hours. Each
time the totenmaske Shapes Flesh, it chooses
one feature: ears (target becomes deafened),
eyes (target becomes blinded), mouth (target
can’t speak or eat), or nose (target can’t
smell). A creature with both its nose and mouth
sealed can’t breathe and begins to suﬀocate (Core
Rulebook 478). Changes are permanent until reversed
by removing this curse, or the sealed ﬂesh can be
surgically opened with a DC 25 Medicine check that takes
1d4 rounds and deals 1d6 slashing damage per round.
i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> F b 23 2023
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Feb 23, 2023
24868760
4425272
