i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> F b 23 2023
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Feb 23, 2023
24868503
4425015
5
INTRODUCTION
A-C
D
E-G
H-K
L-N
O-R
S-T
U-Z
APPENDIX
Welcome to Pathﬁnder Bestiary 2! Inside this tome of
creatures, you’ll ﬁnd ﬁckle fey and grotesque ﬁends,
legendary beasts and powerful animals, new allies to
interact with and horrid monsters to hunt down. This
book details hundreds of new creatures, expanding upon
the myriad monsters introduced in the ﬁrst Pathﬁnder
Bestiary volume.
To use this book, you need the Pathﬁnder Core
Rulebook, which contains the rules of the game and gives
you further understanding of each creature’s rules and
its place in the world. Using both of these books allows
you as the Game Master (or GM) to create stories of
grand adventure and populate them with fearsome foes,
possible allies, and friendly guides.
Most of the sections of this book describe a creature or
a group of related creatures, present their game statistics,
illustrate their place within the game world, and provide
details about their behavior or society.
In this introduction, you can ﬁnd advice on how
to play these creatures in the game, including how to
read and use their statistics, advice on roleplaying their
interactions with player characters, and guidance on
adjusting creature statistics to ﬁt the needs of your setting.
Lastly, the appendix in the back of the book contains
sections that provide information about frequently used
monster abilities, creature traits, new rituals, uncommon
languages, and lists of monsters sorted by type and level.
Playing Creatures
While the other players portray their characters, you
as the Game Master get to play everyone else. This
section provides the basics for using the creatures in this
book. It guides you through the process of reading and
understanding the creatures’ statistics so the creature can
either provide a threat or serve as an ally in and out of
combat. It also provides general advice for roleplaying
creatures to help provide more depth to the creatures in
your game’s world.
READING CREATURE STATISTICS
Each creature’s rules appear in a stat block, with a
structure similar to those of feats, spells, and magic items.
Because creatures have more abilities than those game
elements, however, their statistics include more entries,
many of which have special formats.
A creature’s traits line sometimes begins with a rarity;
if the creature’s rarity is common, no rarity is listed. The
next entry is its alignment, which is given as a one- or
two-letter abbreviation (LG for lawful good, N for neutral,
CE for chaotic evil, and so on); these abbreviations are
listed comprehensively on page 307. Next is the creature’s
size (Tiny, Small, Medium, Large, Huge, or Gargantuan).
Any other traits are then listed. The traits appearing in
Introduction
this book, including some traits from the Pathﬁnder Core
Rulebook, can be found in Creature Traits on page 304.
Actions and activities the creature can use have the
appropriate icons next to those abilities’ names noting
how many actions they require. A creature always has the
requisite proﬁciency ranks or other abilities required to use
what’s listed in its stat block. For instance, a spellcasting
creature can perform the Cast a Spell activity, and a
creature is never untrained with any of its items.
Some abilities are abbreviated in stat blocks and
described in full in the Ability Glossary on pages 304–306.
CREATURE NAME
LEVEL
RARITY TRAIT
ALIGNMENT ABBREVIATION
SIZE
OTHER TRAITS
Perception The creature’s Perception modiﬁer is listed here,
followed by any special senses.
Languages The languages for a typical creature of that kind are
listed here, followed by any special communication abilities.
If a creature lacks this entry, it cannot communicate with or
understand another creature through language.
Skills The creature is trained or better in these skills. For
untrained skills, use the corresponding ability modiﬁer.
Ability Modiﬁers The creature’s ability modiﬁers are listed here.
Items Any signiﬁcant gear the creature carries is listed here.
Interaction Abilities Special abilities that aﬀect how a creature
perceives and interacts with the world are listed here.
AC, followed by any special bonuses to AC; Saving Throws
A special bonus to a speciﬁc save appears in parentheses
after that save’s bonus. Any special bonuses to all three
saving throws against particular types of eﬀects are listed
after the three saves.
HP, followed by automatic abilities that aﬀect the creature’s
Hit Points or healing; Immunities; Weaknesses; Resistances
Any immunities, weaknesses, or resistances the creature
has are listed here.
Automatic Abilities The creature’s auras, any abilities that
automatically aﬀect its defenses, and the like are listed here.
Reactive Abilities Free actions or reactions that are usually
triggered when it’s not the creature’s turn are listed here.
Speed, followed by any other Speeds or movement abilities.
Melee Ȱɵ (traits; some weapon traits, such as deadly, include
their calculations for convenience) The name of the weapon
or unarmed attack the creature uses for a melee Strike,
followed by the attack modiﬁer and traits in parentheses.
If a creature has any abilities or gear that would aﬀect its
attack modiﬁer, such as a weapon with a +1 weapon potency
rune, those calculations are already included, Damage
amount and damage type, plus any additional eﬀects (this
entry is Eﬀect if the Strike doesn’t deal damage).
Ranged Ȱɵ As Melee, but also lists range or range increment
with traits, Damage as Melee.
Spells The entry starts with the magical tradition and
whether the spells are prepared or spontaneous, followed
i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> F b 23 2023
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Feb 23, 2023
24868503
4425015
