i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> F b 23 2023
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Feb 23, 2023
24868658
4425170
Bestiary 2
160
160
LESHY COMMUNITIES
Leshys are fairly egalitarian when
interacting with their own kind.
Most communities are meritocracies,
rewarding leshys who defend their
communities and help each other
succeed, and they see working together
as the best path to a successful future.
Leshy
These intelligent plant creatures maintain complex societies in remote wildernesses
and places of primal power. By working together, leshys help to defend powerful
fey and druidic sites from interloping humanoids. They often have good relations
with local fey and druidic orders but distrust most other humanoids.
A primal spell caster, often a druid, can create a leshy by binding a nature spirit
to a carefully crafted body grown from speciﬁc vegetation. The details of these
rites vary based on the type of leshy, but all are carefully guarded secrets and tend
to take place in sacred areas associated with nature or primal magic, such as a
druid circle or dryad grove.
SUNFLOWER LESHY
Sunﬂower leshys are the ambassadors and social leaders of their kind.
Their petals radiate from their heads in various hues with a
serrated, leafy, beard-like ruff. When particularly excited, their
eyes and petals glow with collected sunlight, and when they
become depressed or saddened, their usually vibrant
coloration grows correspondingly muted. These shifts
in coloration are echoed in sunﬂower leshy art, which
can lead to unexpected color palettes for artworks. For
example, a human artist might illustrate Hell as a place
of glowing lava and ﬂickering ﬂames, drawing upon
many vibrant colors, but to a sunﬂower leshy, the only
proper way to depict a place like Hell is in morose grays,
blacks, and whites.
The more adventurous sunﬂower leshys leave their
communities to grow bonds with nearby settlements of
humanoids. When interacting with humanoids,
sunﬂower leshys are some of the most likely
to act friendly and give strangers a chance to
prove their good intentions, though they remain
cautious. They’re often accompanied by other,
more powerful leshys.
SUNFLOWER LESHY
CREATURE 1
N
SMALL
LESHY
PLANT
Perception +7; darkvision
Languages Common, Druidic, Sylvan; speak with plants (sunﬂowers only)
Skills Acrobatics +6, Diplomacy +8, Nature +5, Stealth +7 (+9 in plains)
Str +0, Dex +3, Con +1, Int +0, Wis +2, Cha +3
AC 16; Fort +4, Ref +10, Will +7
HP 20
Heliotrope Ȳ˓ (aura, evocation, light, primal) 20 feet; Requirements The sunﬂower
leshy begins its turn in an area of bright light; Eﬀect The sunﬂower leshy
reﬂects the sun or another source of bright light from their face. Each
creature that ends its turn in the emanation must attempt a DC 16 Will save.
Success The creature is unaffected and is temporarily immune to heliotrope for
24 hours.
Failure The creature is distracted by the light, becoming ﬂat-footed for 1 round.
Critical Failure As failure, but the creature is also dazzled for 1 round.
Verdant Burst (healing) When a sunﬂower leshy dies, a burst of primal energy explodes
from its body, restoring 1d8 Hit Points to each plant creature in a 30-foot emanation.
This area immediately ﬁlls with sunﬂowers, becoming diﬃcult terrain. If the terrain is
not a viable environment for these sunﬂowers, they wither after 24 hours.
Speed 25 feet
Melee Ȱɵ tendril +6 (agile, ﬁnesse), Damage 1d8 bludgeoning
Ranged Ȱɵ seed +6 (range increment 20 feet), Damage 1d6 bludgeoning
i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> F b 23 2023
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Feb 23, 2023
24868658
4425170
