i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> F b 23 2023
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Feb 23, 2023
24868734
4425246
Bestiary 2
236
236
THE HEADLESS KING
Ydersius was defeated by an Azlanti
heroine named Savith in the era
before Earthfall, and now the so-called
Headless King’s body prowls aimlessly
in the Darklands. That the decapitated
god’s clerics still gain power from
worship points to Ydersius’s tenacity
and continued existence, after a
fashion. Those who seek to recover
his skull and return it to his body
hope that doing so will restore both
him and the sekmin civilization to
their full power.
Serpentfolk
Before their ancient clash with humanity devastated their civilization, serpentfolk
were masters of a sprawling underground empire. Few serpentfolk survive
today; their power is shattered, their god Ydersius decapitated (although not
quite slain). The cunning, intelligence, and magical abilities of serpentfolk have
diminished from their ancient heights, and most are born without these boons.
Those serpentfolk who retain their ancestry’s legacy of intelligence and magic
are known as zyss, and they look down upon their more numerous kindred with
a mix of disdain and shame. They see these offshoots as a curse on their kind,
resulting from their god’s decapitation and the pandemonium during the fall
of their underground empire, and have dubbed them aapoph, meaning “chaos
made ﬂesh.”
Today, the central realm of the Darklands retains the old name of the serpentfolk
empire that once dominated this region—Sekamina. This name is also the source
of the serpentfolk’s Aklo title, sekmin, which they are often called in ancient texts.
Sekamina itself retains very little of the serpentfolk’s legacy, its mantle of rule
having passed on to others like drow, ghouls, gugs, and deep gnomes. Yet in remote
reaches of this dangerous realm, the ruins of serpentfolk cities still stand. Within,
a great many serpentfolk sleep in torpor in secluded vaults, with only a few
cells awake to enact their schemes. In addition, a small number of serpentfolk
settlements dot Golarion’s surface, most of them in humid, remote jungles,
far-ﬂung islands, or caverns close to the surface. It’s rare for such a settlement
to number more than a few dozen serpentfolk. They rely primarily on slaves
to build their power bases, to defend them, and to perform essentially all the
practical functions of their society. This includes providing food, crafting goods,
and tending to the serpentfolk’s every need.
Zyss serpentfolk are megalomaniacal geniuses with dreams of returning
to their place of dominance, though modern serpentfolk have few means of
accomplishing this goal. Many of their plans hinge on resurrecting Ydersius,
their decapitated god. His headless body still thrashes about, mindless, in the
Darklands, waiting to be reunited with his lost skull. Serpentfolk numbers are
so small that reclaiming their dominance seems a distant dream, especially
since their reproduction is slow. Though a parent can birth a dozen young
at once, the gestation period lasts up to a decade, and the likelihood that
even one will be zyss is low. There’s no telling whether a child will be zyss
or aapoph, regardless of parentage. A coveted zyss child is just as likely
to arise from aapoph parents as from two zyss, and every serpentfolk
colony has someone in charge of sorting the young, identifying the
earliest signs of intelligence in them.
Though the number of zyss is small in serpentfolk colonies,
bringing in more zyss isn’t necessarily desirable. A serpentfolk
conclave with just a few zyss is functional, but one with a large
number becomes fractious. Cults and societies form, all pursuing their own
passions and politics, with scheming and backstabbing running rampant.
A powerful priest may be able to bring other zyss to heel, but many zyss
question why a priest should be in charge if their god is dead. Zyss thrive
on selﬁsh desires for hedonistic pleasure and adulation. They feel no love
for others, even their offspring. Thriving on decadence, they crave receiving
expensive gifts, gorging themselves on massive meals, and pursing arts such
as music, poetry, or sculpture. Even more academic hobbies, like the study
of magic or warfare, take an artistic bent, like carefully designing colorful
illusions or memorizing epic poems about renowned wars. Each zyss
believes themself to have more reﬁned tastes than their peers.
YDERSIUS
The serpentfolk god is not dead, but in his decapitated
state, he might as well be. Reduced to a feral, animalistic
i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> F b 23 2023
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Feb 23, 2023
24868734
4425246
