i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> F b 23 2023
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Feb 23, 2023
24868573
4425085
D
75
75
Introduction
A-C
D
E-G
H-K
L-N
O-R
S-T
U-Z
Appendix
HAMATULA TREASURES
Perhaps because hamatulas exist to
guard the riches of archdevils, infernal
dukes, and queens of the night, they
ﬁnd themselves drawn to wealth.
Though they despise summoners who
pull them away from their assigned
duties, hamatulas use their servitude
as an opportunity to collect treasures
and wealth that they can oﬀer to their
lords upon their return. Treasures that
are painful or dangerous to handle are
among their favorite prizes.
Str +7, Dex +6, Con +5, Int +1, Wis +5, Cha +4
AC 31; Fort +23, Ref +20, Will +20; +1 status to all saves vs. magic
HP 165; Immunities ﬁre; Weaknesses good 10; Resistances physical 10 (except silver),
poison 10
Attack of Opportunity Ǻȓ Barb only. A hamatula gains an extra reaction at the start of
each of its turns that it can use only to make an Attack of Opportunity. It can’t use
more than one Attack of Opportunity triggered by the same action. In addition to the
normal trigger, a hamatula can make an Attack of Opportunity against a creature that
touches it or an adjacent creature that attempts a melee Strike against it.
Speed 25 feet, ﬂy 30 feet
Melee Ȱɵ barb +24 (evil, magical), Damage 3d8+13 piercing plus 1d6 evil and bloodletting
Ranged Ȱɵ hurled barb +23 (evil, magical, range increment 60 feet), Damage 2d8+13
piercing plus 1d6 evil and bloodletting
Divine Innate Spells DC 27, attack +21; 5th dimension door, glyph of warding (at will); 4th
dimension door (at will); 3rd harm, paralyze (×2); Cantrips (5th) produce ﬂame
Rituals DC 27; infernal pact
Bloodletting On a critical hit, the hamatula’s barbs deal 3d6 persistent bleed damage.
Frightful Strike Ȳ˓ (divine, emotion, enchantment, fear, mental) Trigger The hamatula
hits a creature with a barb Strike; Eﬀect The creature struck must succeed at
a DC 27 Will save or become frightened 2 (or frightened 3 on a critical
failure). Regardless of the result of its saving throw, the creature
is then temporarily immune to Frightful Strike for 24 hours.
Impaling Barb ʚʖ The hamatula makes a barb Strike, then
Strides up to half its Speed without triggering reactions. If
the Strike hits, the hamatula impales the target with one of
its barbs and snaps the barb free as it moves away from
the target. This deals an additional 2d8 piercing damage
to the target and pins it to an adjacent surface, rendering
it immobilized (Escape DC 29).
Warden of Erebus A hamatula’s glyph of warding innate
spell can contain any common spell from the Core
Rulebook that meets the criteria in glyph of warding;
the hamatula doesn’t need to provide the spell.
GYLOU (HANDMAIDEN DEVIL)
Though gylous are deeply entrenched in the expansive
and complex machinations of Hell, they are highly
skilled agents capable of nuanced diplomacy, masterful
deception, physical ﬁnesse, and nearly any other
tasks they set their minds to. This versatility has
led to gylous becoming widespread throughout
all layers of Hell, enabling them to ﬁlter key
information to their masters regarding other
devils’ plots and schemes. Their allegiance
is no secret, but their skills are so great
that powerful devils employ one or more
gylous regardless. While most gylous have
a feminine form (combined with their role,
this is the source of their common moniker
of “handmaiden”), some have other gender
presentations, and nearly all gylous take on
carefully cultivated illusions to best suit the roles
they ﬁll. More often than not, gylous arise when
lesser devils who have demonstrated exceptional utility
and invaluable skills are uplifted into a new form, though
on rare occasions they are shaped from the souls of evil mortals
who showed unparalleled savvy within bureaucratic enterprises.
i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> F b 23 2023
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Feb 23, 2023
24868573
4425085
