i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> F b 23 2023
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Feb 23, 2023
24868817
4425329
319
319
Introduction
A-C
D
E-G
H-K
L-N
O-R
S-T
U-Z
Appendix
This product is compliant with the Open Game License (OGL) and is suitable for use with the Pathﬁnder
Roleplaying Game (Second Edition).
Product Identity: The following items are hereby identiﬁed as Product Identity, as deﬁned in the Open Game
License version 1.0a, Section 1(e), and are not Open Game Content: All trademarks, registered trademarks, proper
nouns (characters, deities, locations, etc., as well as all adjectives, names, titles, and descriptive terms derived
from proper nouns), artworks, characters, dialogue, locations, organizations, plots, storylines, and trade dress.
(Elements that have previously been designated as Open Game Content, or are exclusively derived from previous
Open Game Content, or that are in the public domain are not included in this declaration.)
Open Game Content: Except for material designated as Product Identity (see above), the game mechanics of this
Paizo game product are Open Game Content, as deﬁned in the Open Game License version 1.0a, Section 1(d).
No portion of this work other than the material designated as Open Game Content may be reproduced in any
form without written permission.
Pathﬁnder Bestiary 2 (Second Edition) © 2020, Paizo Inc. All Rights Reserved. Paizo, the Paizo golem logo,
Pathﬁnder, the Pathﬁnder logo, Pathﬁnder Society, Starﬁnder, and the Starﬁnder logo are registered trademarks of
Paizo Inc.; the Pathﬁnder P logo, Pathﬁnder Accessories, Pathﬁnder Adventure Card Game, Pathﬁnder Adventure
Card Society, Pathﬁnder Adventure Path, Pathﬁnder Adventures, Pathﬁnder Battles, Pathﬁnder Combat Pad,
Pathﬁnder Flip-Mat, Pathﬁnder Flip-Tiles, Pathﬁnder Legends, Pathﬁnder Lost Omens, Pathﬁnder Pawns,
Pathﬁnder Roleplaying Game, Pathﬁnder Tales, Starﬁnder Adventure Path, Starﬁnder Combat Pad, Starﬁnder Flip-
Mat, Starﬁnder Pawns, Starﬁnder Roleplaying Game, and Starﬁnder Society are trademarks of Paizo Inc.
Printed in China.
OPEN GAME LICENSE Version 1.0a
The following text is the property of Wizards of the Coast, Inc. and is Copyright 2000 Wizards of the
Coast, Inc. (“Wizards”). All Rights Reserved.
1. Deﬁnitions: (a) “Contributors” means the copyright and/or trademark owners who have contributed
Open Game Content; (b) “Derivative Material” means copyrighted material including derivative works
and translations (including into other computer languages), potation, modiﬁcation, correction, addition,
extension, upgrade, improvement, compilation, abridgment or other form in which an existing work
may be recast, transformed or adapted; (c) “Distribute” means to reproduce, license, rent, lease, sell,
broadcast, publicly display, transmit or otherwise distribute; (d) “Open Game Content” means the game
mechanic and includes the methods, procedures, processes and routines to the extent such content
does not embody the Product Identity and is an enhancement over the prior art and any additional
content clearly identiﬁed as Open Game Content by the Contributor, and means any work covered by
this License, including translations and derivative works under copyright law, but speciﬁcally excludes
Product Identity. (e) “Product Identity” means product and product line names, logos and identifying
marks including trade dress; artifacts, creatures, characters, stories, storylines, plots, thematic elements,
dialogue, incidents, language, artwork, symbols, designs, depictions, likenesses, formats, poses, concepts,
themes and graphic, photographic and other visual or audio representations; names and descriptions
of characters, spells, enchantments, personalities, teams, personas, likenesses and special abilities;
places, locations, environments, creatures, equipment, magical or supernatural abilities or eﬀects,
logos, symbols, or graphic designs; and any other trademark or registered trademark clearly identiﬁed
as Product identity by the owner of the Product Identity, and which speciﬁcally excludes the Open
Game Content; (f) “Trademark” means the logos, names, mark, sign, motto, designs that are used by a
Contributor to identify itself or its products or the associated products contributed to the Open Game
License by the Contributor (g) “Use”, “Used” or “Using” means to use, Distribute, copy, edit, format,
modify, translate and otherwise create Derivative Material of Open Game Content. (h) “You” or “Your”
means the licensee in terms of this agreement.
2. The License: This License applies to any Open Game Content that contains a notice indicating that
the Open Game Content may only be Used under and in terms of this License. You must aﬃx such a
notice to any Open Game Content that you Use. No terms may be added to or subtracted from this
License except as described by the License itself. No other terms or conditions may be applied to any
Open Game Content distributed using this License.
3. Oﬀer and Acceptance: By Using the Open Game Content You indicate Your acceptance of the
terms of this License.
4. Grant and Consideration: In consideration for agreeing to use this License, the Contributors grant
You a perpetual, worldwide, royalty-free, non-exclusive license with the exact terms of this License
to Use, the Open Game Content.
5. Representation of Authority to Contribute: If You are contributing original material as Open Game
Content, You represent that Your Contributions are Your original creation and/or You have suﬃcient
rights to grant the rights conveyed by this License.
6. Notice of License Copyright: You must update the COPYRIGHT NOTICE portion of this License to
include the exact text of the COPYRIGHT NOTICE of any Open Game Content You are copying, modifying
or distributing, and You must add the title, the copyright date, and the copyright holder’s name to the
COPYRIGHT NOTICE of any original Open Game Content you Distribute.
7. Use of Product Identity: You agree not to Use any Product Identity, including as an indication as
to compatibility, except as expressly licensed in another, independent Agreement with the owner of
each element of that Product Identity. You agree not to indicate compatibility or co-adaptability with
any Trademark or Registered Trademark in conjunction with a work containing Open Game Content
except as expressly licensed in another, independent Agreement with the owner of such Trademark
or Registered Trademark. The use of any Product Identity in Open Game Content does not constitute
a challenge to the ownership of that Product Identity. The owner of any Product Identity used in Open
Game Content shall retain all rights, title and interest in and to that Product Identity.
8. Identiﬁcation: If you distribute Open Game Content You must clearly indicate which portions of
the work that you are distributing are Open Game Content.
9. Updating the License: Wizards or its designated Agents may publish updated versions of this
License. You may use any authorized version of this License to copy, modify and distribute any Open
Game Content originally distributed under any version of this License.
10. Copy of this License: You MUST include a copy of this License with every copy of the Open
Game Content You distribute.
11. Use of Contributor Credits: You may not market or advertise the Open Game Content using the
name of any Contributor unless You have written permission from the Contributor to do so.
12. Inability to Comply: If it is impossible for You to comply with any of the terms of this License
with respect to some or all of the Open Game Content due to statute, judicial order, or governmental
regulation then You may not Use any Open Game Material so aﬀected.
13. Termination: This License will terminate automatically if You fail to comply with all terms herein
and fail to cure such breach within 30 days of becoming aware of the breach. All sublicenses shall
survive the termination of this License.
14. Reformation: If any provision of this License is held to be unenforceable, such provision shall be
reformed only to the extent necessary to make it enforceable.
15. COPYRIGHT NOTICE
Open Game License v 1.0a © 2000, Wizards of the Coast, Inc.
System Reference Document © 2000, Wizards of the Coast, Inc.; Authors: Jonathan Tweet, Monte
Cook, and Skip Williams, based on material by E. Gary Gygax and Dave Arneson.
Angel, Monadic Deva from the Tome of Horrors Complete © 2011, Necromancer Games, Inc., published
and distributed by Frog God Games; Author: Scott Greene, based on original material by Gary Gygax.
Angel, Movanic Deva from the Tome of Horrors Complete © 2011, Necromancer Games, Inc., published
and distributed by Frog God Games; Author: Scott Greene, based on original material by Gary Gygax.
Aurumvorax from the Tome of Horrors Complete © 2011, Necromancer Games, Inc., published and
distributed by Frog God Games; Author: Scott Greene, based on original material by Gary Gygax.
Basidirond from the Tome of Horrors Complete © 2011, Necromancer Games, Inc., published and
distributed by Frog God Games; Author: Scott Greene, based on original material by Gary Gygax.
Blindheim from the Tome of Horrors Complete © 2011, Necromancer Games, Inc., published and
distributed by Frog God Games; Author: Scott Greene, based on original material by Roger Musson.
The Book of Fiends © 2003, Green Ronin Publishing; Authors: Aaron Loeb, Erik Mona, Chris Pramas,
and Robert J. Schwalb.
Armies of the Abyss © 2002, Green Ronin Publishing; Authors: Erik Mona and Chris Pramas.
The Avatar’s Handbook © 2003, Green Ronin Publishing; Authors: Jesse Decker and Chris Thomasson.
Book of the Righteous © 2002, Aaron Loeb.
Legions of Hell © 2001, Green Ronin Publishing; Author: Chris Pramas.
The Unholy Warrior’s Handbook © 2003, Green Ronin Publishing; Author: Robert J. Schwalb.
Carbuncle from the Tome of Horrors Complete © 2011, Necromancer Games, Inc., published and
distributed by Frog God Games; Author: Scott Greene, based on original material by Albie Fiore.
Cave Fisher from the Tome of Horrors Complete © 2011, Necromancer Games, Inc., published and
distributed by Frog God Games; Author: Scott Greene, based on original material by Lawrence Schick.
Daemon, Derghodaemon from the Tome of Horrors Complete © 2011, Necromancer Games, Inc.,
published and distributed by Frog God Games; Author: Scott Greene, based on original material by
Gary Gygax.
Daemon, Piscodaemon from the Tome of Horrors Complete © 2011, Necromancer Games, Inc., published
and distributed by Frog God Games; Author: Scott Greene, based on original material by Gary Gygax.
Dark Creeper from the Tome of Horrors Complete © 2011, Necromancer Games, Inc., published and
distributed by Frog God Games; Author: Scott Greene, based on original material by Rik Shepard.
Dark Stalker from the Tome of Horrors Complete © 2011, Necromancer Games, Inc., published and
distributed by Frog God Games; Author: Scott Greene, based on original material by Simon Muth.
Demon, Nabasu from the Tome of Horrors Complete © 2011, Necromancer Games, Inc., published
and distributed by Frog God Games; Author: Scott Greene, based on original material by Gary Gygax.
Demon, Shadow from the Tome of Horrors Complete © 2011, Necromancer Games, Inc., published
and distributed by Frog God Games; Author: Scott Greene, based on original material by Neville White.
Dracolisk from the Tome of Horrors Complete © 2011, Necromancer Games, Inc., published and
distributed by Frog God Games; Author: Scott Greene, based on original material by Gary Gygax.
Froghemoth from the Tome of Horrors Complete © 2011, Necromancer Games, Inc., published and
distributed by Frog God Games; Author: Scott Greene, based on original material by Gary Gygax.
Genie, Marid from the Tome of Horrors Complete © 2011, Necromancer Games, Inc., published and
PAIZO INC.
Creative Directors • James Jacobs, Robert G. McCreary, and Sarah E. Robinson
Director of Game Design • Jason Bulmahn
Managing Developers • Adam Daigle and Amanda Hamon
Organized Play Lead Developer • Linda Zayas-Palmer
Developers • James Case, Eleanor Ferron, Jason Keeley, Luis Loza, Ron Lundeen,
Patrick Renie, Michael Sayre, and Jason Tondro
Starﬁnder Lead Designer • Joe Pasini
Starﬁnder Senior Developer • John Compton
Starﬁnder Society Developer • Thurston Hillman
Designers • Logan Bonner, Lyz Liddell, and Mark Seifter
Managing Editor • Judy Bauer
Editors • Leo Glass, Patrick Hurley, Avi Kool, Kieran Newton, and Lu Pellazar
Art Directors • Kent Hamilton and Sonja Morris
Senior Graphic Designers • Emily Crowell and Adam Vick
Production Artist • Tony Barnett
Franchise Manager • Mark Moreland
Paizo CEO • Lisa Stevens
Chief Creative Oﬃcer • Erik Mona
Chief Financial Oﬃcer • John Parrish
Chief Operations Oﬃcer • Jeﬀrey Alvarez
Chief Technical Oﬃcer • Vic Wertz
Program Manager • Glenn Elliott
Project Coordinator • Michael Nzazi
Director of Sales • Pierce Watters
Sales Associate • Cosmo Eisele
Vice President of Marketing & Licensing • Jim Butler
Public Relations Manager • Aaron Shanks
Social Media Producer • Payton Smith
Customer Service & Community Manager • Sara Marie
Operations Manager • Will Chase
Organized Play Manager • Tonya Woldridge
Accountant • William Jorenby
Data Entry Clerk • B. Scott Keim
Director of Technology • Raimi Kong
Web Content Manager • Maryssa Lagervall
Senior Software Developer • Gary Teter
Webstore Coordinator • Katina Davis
Customer Service Team • Joan Hong, Virginia Jordan, Samantha Phelan, and
Diego Valdez
Warehouse Team • Laura Wilkes Carey, Mika Hawkins, Heather Payne, Jeﬀ Strand, and
Kevin Underwood
Website Team • Brian Bauman, Robert Brandenburg, Whitney Chatterjee, Erik Keith,
Josh Thornton, and Andrew White
distributed by Frog God Games; Author: Scott Greene, based on original material by Gary Gygax.
Grippli from the Tome of Horrors Complete © 2011, Necromancer Games, Inc., published and distributed
by Frog God Games; Author: Scott Greene, based on original material by Gary Gygax.
Korred from the Tome of Horrors Complete © 2011, Necromancer Games, Inc., published and distributed
by Frog God Games; Author: Scott Greene, based on original material by Gary Gygax.
Necrophidius from the Tome of Horrors Complete © 2011, Necromancer Games, Inc., published and
distributed by Frog God Games; Author: Scott Greene, based on original material by Simon Tillbrook.
Nereid from the Tome of Horrors Complete © 2011, Necromancer Games, Inc., published and distributed
by Frog God Games; Author: Scott Greene, based on original material by Gary Gygax.
Quickling from the Tome of Horrors Complete © 2011, Necromancer Games, Inc., published and
distributed by Frog God Games; Author: Scott Greene, based on original material by Gary Gygax.
Quickwood from the Tome of Horrors Complete © 2011, Necromancer Games, Inc., published and
distributed by Frog God Games; Author: Scott Greene, based on original material by Gary Gygax.
Scythe Tree from the Tome of Horrors Complete © 2011, Necromancer Games, Inc., published and
distributed by Frog God Games; Author: Scott Greene.
Skulk from the Tome of Horrors Complete © 2011, Necromancer Games, Inc., published and distributed
by Frog God Games; Author: Scott Greene, based on original material by Simon Muth.
Soul Eater from the Tome of Horrors Complete © 2011, Necromancer Games, Inc., published and
distributed by Frog God Games; Author: Scott Greene, based on original material by David Cook.
Troll, Two-Headed from the Tome of Horrors Complete © 2011, Necromancer Games, Inc., published
and distributed by Frog God Games; Author: Scott Greene, based on original material by Oliver
Charles MacDonald.
Yellow Musk Creeper from the Tome of Horrors Complete © 2011, Necromancer Games, Inc., published
and distributed by Frog God Games; Author: Scott Greene, based on original material by Albie Fiore.
Yellow Musk Zombie from the Tome of Horrors Complete © 2011, Necromancer Games, Inc., published
and distributed by Frog God Games; Author: Scott Greene, based on original material by Albie Fiore.
Pathﬁnder Core Rulebook (Second Edition) © 2019, Paizo Inc.; Authors: Logan Bonner, Jason
Bulmahn, Stephen Radney-MacFarland, and Mark Seifter.
Pathﬁnder Bestiary 2 (Second Edition) © 2020, Paizo Inc.; Authors: Alexander Augunas, Dennis
Baker, Jesse Benner, Joseph Blomquist, Logan Bonner, Paris Crenshaw, Adam Daigle, Jesse Decker,
Darrin Drader, Brian Duckwitz, Robert N. Emerson, Scott Fernandez, Keith Garrett, Scott Gladstein,
Matthew Goodall, T.H. Gulliver, BJ Hensley, Tim Hitchcock, Vanessa Hoskins, James Jacobs, Brian R.
James, Jason Keeley, John Laﬀan, Lyz Liddell, Colm Lundberg, Ron Lundeen, Jason Nelson, Randy Price,
Jessica Redekop, Patrick Renie, Alistair Rigg, Alex Riggs, David N. Ross, David Schwartz, Mark Seifter,
Amber Stewart, Jeﬀrey Swank, Russ Taylor, and Jason Tondro.
i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> F b 23 2023
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Feb 23, 2023
24868817
4425329
