i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> F b 23 2023
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Feb 23, 2023
24868802
4425314
Bestiary 2
304
304
Ability Glossary
The following creature abilities are listed here because
they are shared by many creatures or are highly complex.
The statistics for individual creatures might alter the
traits, the number of actions, or other rules of these
abilities. Anything noted in a speciﬁc creature’s stat
block overrides the general rules for the ability below.
In these abilities, “monster” is used for the creature
that has the ability, to differentiate it from any other
creatures the ability might affect.
All-Around Vision This monster can see in all directions
simultaneously, and therefore can’t be ﬂanked.
Aquatic Ambush Ȱɵ Requirements The monster is hiding in
water and a creature that hasn’t detected it is within the
listed number of feet; Eﬀect The monster moves up to
its swim Speed + 10 feet toward the triggering creature,
traveling on water and on land. Once the creature is in
reach, the monster makes a Strike against it. The creature is
ﬂat-footed against this Strike.
Attack of Opportunity Ǻȓ Trigger A creature within the
monster’s reach uses a manipulate action or a move action,
makes a ranged attack, or leaves a square during a move
action it’s using; Eﬀect The monster attempts a melee Strike
against the triggering creature. If the attack is a critical
hit and the trigger was a manipulate action, the monster
disrupts that action. This Strike doesn’t count toward the
monster’s multiple attack penalty, and its multiple attack
penalty doesn’t apply to this Strike.
At-Will Spells The monster can cast its at-will spells any
number of times without using up spell slots.
Aura A monster’s aura automatically aﬀects everything within
a speciﬁed emanation around that monster. The monster
doesn’t need to spend actions on the aura; rather, the aura’s
eﬀects are applied at speciﬁc times, such as when a creature
ends its turn in the aura or when creatures enter the aura.
If an aura does nothing but deal damage, its entry lists
only the radius, damage, and saving throw. Such auras deal
this damage to a creature when the creature enters the aura
and when a creature starts its turn in the aura. A creature
can take damage from the aura only once per round.
The GM might determine that a monster’s aura doesn’t
aﬀect its own allies. For example, a creature might be
immune to a monster’s frightful presence if they have been
around each other for a long time.
Buck Ǻȓ Most monsters that serve as mounts can attempt to
buck oﬀ unwanted or annoying riders, but most mounts
will not use this reaction against a trusted creature unless
the mounts are spooked or mistreated; Trigger A creature
Mounts or uses the Command an Animal action while riding
the monster; Eﬀect The triggering creature must succeed
at a Reﬂex saving throw against the listed DC or fall oﬀ the
creature and land prone. If the save is a critical failure, the
triggering creature also takes 1d6 bludgeoning damage in
addition to the normal damage for the fall.
Catch Rock Ǻȓ Requirements The monster must have a free hand
but can Release anything it’s holding as part of this reaction;
Trigger The monster is targeted with a thrown rock Strike
or a rock would fall on the monster; Eﬀect The monster
gains a +4 circumstance bonus to its AC against the
triggering attack or to any defense against the falling rock.
If the attack misses or the monster successfully defends
against the falling rock, the monster catches the rock, takes
no damage, and is now holding the rock.
Change Shape
Ȱɵ
(concentrate,
[magical
tradition],
polymorph, transmutation) The monster changes its shape
indeﬁnitely. It can use this action again to return to its
natural shape or adopt a new shape. Unless otherwise
noted, a monster cannot use Change Shape to appear
as a speciﬁc individual. Using Change Shape counts as
creating a disguise for the Impersonate use of Deception.
The monster’s transformation automatically defeats
Perception DCs to determine whether the creature is
a member of the ancestry or creature type into which
it transformed, and it gains a +4 status bonus to its
Deception DC to prevent others from seeing through its
disguise. Change Shape abilities specify what shapes the
monster can adopt. The monster doesn’t gain any special
abilities of the new shape, only its physical form. For
example, in each shape, it replaces its normal Speeds and
Strikes, and might potentially change its senses or size.
Any changes are listed in its stat block.
Constant Spells A constant spell aﬀects the monster without
the monster needing to cast it, and its duration is unlimited.
If a constant spell gets counteracted, the monster can
reactivate it by spending the normal spellcasting actions
the spell requires.
Constrict Ȱɵ The monster deals the listed amount of damage
to any number of creatures grabbed or restrained by it.
Each of those creatures can attempt a basic Fortitude save
with the listed DC.
Coven (divination, mental, occult) This monster can form a
coven with two or more other creatures who also have the
coven ability. This involves performing an 8-hour ceremony
with all prospective coven members. After the coven
is formed, each of its members gains elite adjustments
(page 6), adjusting their levels accordingly. Coven members
can sense other members’ locations and conditions by
spending a single action, which has the concentrate trait,
and can sense what another coven member is sensing as a
two‑action activity, which has the concentrate trait as well.
Covens also grant spells and rituals to their members,
but these can be cast only in cooperation between three
coven members who are all within 30 feet of one another.
A coven member can contribute to a coven spell with a
single-action spellcasting activity that has a single verbal
component. If two coven members have contributed these
actions within the last round, a third member can cast a
coven spell on her turn by spending the normal spellcasting
actions. A coven can cast its coven spells an unlimited
number of times but can cast only one coven spell each
round. All covens grant the 8th-level baleful polymorph
spell and all the following spells, which the coven can
cast at any level up to 5th: augury, charm, clairaudience,
i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> F b 23 2023
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Feb 23, 2023
24868802
4425314
