i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> F b 23 2023
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Feb 23, 2023
24868633
4425145
E-G
E-G
135
135
Introduction
A-C
D
E-G
H-K
L-N
O-R
S-T
U-Z
Appendix
GREMLIN FAITH
Lawful evil gremlins are sometimes
drawn to the worship of archdevils,
though not in an orthodox fashion.
Dispater is revered as the archdevil
of cities—playgrounds to engage in
thievery and sabotage. Mammon is
worshipped as the bringer of wealth
and protector of gremlin warrens
that, like his domain of Erebus,
are dark and trap-ﬁlled. Neutral
evil gremlins have been known to
worship Norgorber in his aspect as a
patron of thieves, but pugwampis in
particular prefer to worship gnolls (or
at least, worship whoever the local
gnolls worship). Chaotic evil gremlins
often revere Andirifkhu, demon lord
of illusions, knives, and traps. Those
that retain a connection to the First
World may swear allegiance to the
Lantern King, Eldest of laughter,
mischief, and transmutation.
Rusting Grasp ʚʖ (primal, transmutation) Frequency once per hour; Eﬀect The vexgit
makes a +9 spell attack against a creature or unattended object. If they succeed,
the vexgit deals 1d6 damage (doubled on a critical hit) to a metal item the target is
wearing or holding, ignoring its Hardness. If they hit an unattended metal item, the
item takes this damage automatically. If a creature uses Shield Block with a metal
shield against this attack, the shield is automatically broken, but no other item is
rusted on that attack.
Speedy Sabotage When a vexgit succeeds or critically succeeds at a check to Disable a
Device, they gain an additional success toward disabling a complex device.
NUGLUB
The “towering” hunchbacked nuglubs are among the largest gremlins, though
they’re not quite three feet tall. Nuglubs have three glowing blue eyes and black,
oily hair on their head and back that covers them like a cloak. Nuglubs enjoy
killing with a glee that other gremlins reserve for sabotage. Indeed, they spend
long hours preparing ambushes for unwary travelers or plotting the murders of
sleeping villagers. Though less technically inclined than their kin, nuglubs do enjoy
building traps. They delight in stealthily constructing traps in places their victims
consider familiar, such as front doors and the ﬂoors around beds. If someone else
gets blamed for the mayhem the nuglub creates, all the better.
In combat, nuglubs focus on targets wearing metal armor. Some attribute this to
envy on the part of the nuglubs, who ﬁnd it difﬁcult to ﬁt armor on their twisted
bodies. Nuglubs are particularly talented at causing those nearby to stumble over
them and fall prone. Once an enemy falls to the ground, all the nuglubs descend
upon the target, biting and scratching until nothing remains.
Nuglubs rarely gather in groups larger than half a dozen, as quarrels often lead to
violence and cannibalism. A lone nuglub who bullies a group of smaller gremlins is
more likely to get their way, and thus less likely to attack their allies.
NUGLUB
CREATURE 2
CE
SMALL
FEY
GREMLIN
Perception +5; darkvision
Languages Undercommon
Skills Acrobatics +8, Crafting +5 (+7 traps), Intimidation +7, Stealth +8
Str +1, Dex +4, Con +3, Int –1, Wis –1, Cha +1
AC 18; Fort +9, Ref +10, Will +5
HP 34; Weaknesses cold iron 2
Kneecapper Ǻȓ Trigger A Medium
creature within the nuglub’s
reach leaves a square during its
move action; Eﬀect The nuglub lashes
out at the triggering creature’s knees and
tries to knock them prone. The nuglub makes
an Acrobatics check against the creature’s Reﬂex
DC. On a success, the target falls and lands prone.
Speed 30 feet, climb 20 feet
Melee Ȱɵ bite +11 (ﬁnesse), Damage 1d8+1 piercing
plus Grab
Melee Ȱɵ claw +11 (agile, ﬁnesse), Damage
1d6+1 slashing
Primal Innate Spells DC 18, attack
+8; 2nd shatter; 1st grease,
shocking grasp; Cantrips (1st)
prestidigitation
Sneak Attack A nuglub’s Strikes deal
an additional 1d6 precision damage to
ﬂat-footed targets, or 1d10 if the target is prone.
i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> F b 23 2023
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Feb 23, 2023
24868633
4425145
