i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> F b 23 2023
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Feb 23, 2023
24868520
4425032
Bestiary 2
22
22
Archon
Tireless agents of Heaven, archons embody virtues and strive to guide mortals
while battling the evil forces of the ﬁendish realms. Heaven’s seven-tiered
mountain is generally known as a place of contemplation and philosophy,
as exempliﬁed by the ﬁfth level, Illumis. But the archon denizens of Heaven’s
threshold and the second level, Proelera, concern themselves with defense and
mustering armies for the endless battles against Hell and the Abyss. However,
whereas devils and demons take pleasure in harming the innocent, Heaven’s
wardens reserve their blades for only the truly wicked and irredeemable. Among
mortals, they prefer to guide and nurture a rule of law that looks out for the
weak and powerless, leading mortal agents to overcome mortal threats rather
than solving those threats themselves.
HOUND ARCHON
Among the rank-and-ﬁle soldiers of Heaven’s armies, few individuals are more
dependable and truer to the cause than the noble hound archons, embodiments
of the virtue of diligence. Unlike horned archons, who perform at a similar
level along Heaven’s grand hierarchy, hound archons do not scout ahead for
evil or perform reconnaissance missions in hostile territory. A hound archon’s
role is as a soldier in the heart of battle or, occasionally, as a sentinel tasked with
protecting a particular strategic location or holy site.
HOUND ARCHON
CREATURE 4
LG
MEDIUM
ARCHON
CELESTIAL
Perception +13; darkvision
Languages Celestial, Draconic, Infernal; tongues
Skills Athletics +12, Intimidation +10, Religion +9, Stealth +10
Str +4, Dex +2, Con +4, Int +0, Wis +3, Cha +2
Items greatsword, full plate
AC 22; Fort +14, Ref +8, Will +11; +1 status to all saves vs. magic
HP 70; Weaknesses evil 5
Retributive Strike Ǻȓ
Speed 35 feet
Melee Ȱɵ greatsword +14 (good, magical, versatile P), Damage 1d12+6
slashing plus 1d6 good
Melee Ȱɵ jaws +14 (agile, good, magical), Damage 1d6+6 piercing plus 1d6 good
Divine Innate Spells DC 19; 4th dimension door; Cantrips (2nd) message;
Constant (5th) tongues
Archon’s Door Once per day, if an archon sees another creature cast
dimension door, the archon can use dimension door (heightened to
5th level) within 1 round to attempt to follow that creature to the
maximum distance of the archon’s dimension door. If the archon’s
dimension door has enough distance, the archon appears the
same distance and direction from the creature as before either
creature used dimension door.
Change Shape
Ȱɵ
(concentrate,
divine,
polymorph,
transmutation) A hound archon can take the appearance
of any canid animal of Small to Large size. This doesn’t
change their Speed or the attack and damage bonuses
for their Strikes, but if the canid’s bite attack has the
Knockdown ability, then the hound archon’s bite
attack gains that ability while they are in that form.
Diligent Assault ʚʖ The hound archon carefully
makes one greatsword Strike and one jaws Strike
in any order. These attacks count toward the
hound archon’s multiple attack penalty, but the multiple
attack penalty doesn’t increase until after all the attacks.
ARCHON EVOLUTIONS
When a spirit becomes an archon,
they usually start as a lantern archon,
the lowliest of archonkind. As they
perform noble deeds and bolster their
pureness of heart, an archon evolves
into greater forms, possibly skipping
stages or remaining in others for long
spans of time, depending on their
particular strengths and personality.
i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> F b 23 2023
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Feb 23, 2023
24868520
4425032
