i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> F b 23 2023
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Feb 23, 2023
24868798
4425310
Bestiary 2
300
300
MASSIVE MUSK CREEPERS
Ancient or specially cultivated musk
creepers can grow to great size. Their
pollen often changes color as they
grow, and pollen of diﬀerent colors can
alter the creeper’s thralls in diﬀerent
ways. Some creepers even become
intelligent after they’re awakened by
primal magic. These few exert far more
control over their thralls.
Yellow Musk Creeper
Made up of thick, green vines with numerous yellow ﬂowers, the yellow musk
creeper grows at places where the ground is enriched with spilled blood and corpses,
like battleﬁelds and graveyards. An ideal environment for the yellow musk creeper
isn’t inhabited, but draws occasional humanoid visitors the plant can transform into
thralls. The yellow musk creeper enraptures creatures with its bright yellow pollen
to bring them close. It then physically alters their brains with its tendrils, implanting
a seed in each to turn the creatures into mindless thralls. The yellow musk creeper
might try to take over a sleeping creature, but it lacks the faculties to sneak up on
anyone, and is likely to wake victims before it can drag itself close enough.
The plant’s pollen can spread far on the wind but quickly becomes too diffuse to
cause harm. Wilderness scouts learn to sniff out the distinctive musky scent of the
pollen, which stays potent even in harmless quantities. A sprouting creeper is also
easy to detect, since it grows from the rotting, messy corpse of a thrall creature.
YELLOW MUSK CREEPER
CREATURE 2
N
MEDIUM
MINDLESS
PLANT
Perception +4; tremorsense (imprecise) 30 feet
Skills Stealth +6
Str +3, Dex +2, Con +4, Int –5, Wis +0, Cha –1
AC 18; Fort +10, Ref +6, Will +4
HP 34; Immunities mental; Weaknesses ﬁre 5
Speed 5 feet
Melee Ȱɵ tendril +9 (reach 10 feet), Damage 1d10+3 piercing
Bore into Brain ̂ˬ (manipulate, mental) The creeper bores dozens
of tendrils into the brain of a Small, Medium, or Large humanoid
creature that’s unconscious, willing, or fascinated by Spray Pollen,
and within reach of the creeper’s tendrils. The creature must succeed
at a DC 18 Fortitude save or become stupeﬁed 1 (stupeﬁed 2
on a critical failure). Subsequent failed saves against Bore
into Brain increase the stupeﬁed value. If the creature
reaches stupeﬁed 5, it is turned into a yellow musk thrall
(see below). Boring into a creature’s brain doesn’t end
fascination caused by Spray Pollen.
Spray Pollen ʚʖ (mental, poison) The yellow musk creeper
blasts yellow pollen in either a 30-foot line or a 15-foot
cone. Each creature in the emanation must attempt a DC
20 Will save. Once a creature succeeds at any save against
Spray Pollen, it becomes temporarily immune for 24 hours.
Success The creature is unaﬀected.
Failure The creature is fascinated. For as long as it is fascinated, it must
spend each of its actions to move closer to the yellow musk creeper
as expediently as possible, while avoiding obvious dangers. If the
creature is adjacent to the yellow musk creeper, it stays still
and doesn’t act.
Critical Failure As failure, but the condition doesn’t
end automatically. The creature can attempt
a new save at the end of each of its
turns. On a success, the fascinated
condition and other eﬀects end.
YELLOW MUSK THRALL
A creature transformed by a
yellow musk creeper’s tendrils
boring into its brain becomes a
yellow musk thrall if it’s Small or Medium,
or a yellow musk brute if Large (a Small
i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> F b 23 2023
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Feb 23, 2023
24868798
4425310
