i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> F b 23 2023
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Feb 23, 2023
24868773
4425285
U-Z
U-Z
275
275
Introduction
A-C
D
E-G
H-K
L-N
O-R
S-T
U-Z
Appendix
VRYKOLAKAS HABITS
Most vrykolakas have curious
aﬀectations, such as a compulsion
to knock on a door before
entering or calling out the name
of the person within. If the person
answers, the vrykolakas then tries
to hunt and slay them within 3 days.
Others have an aﬃnity for speciﬁc
types of animals, always preferring
to charm or possess them, or have
an aversion to others. Unlike a moroi
vampire, however, for a vrykolakas
these habits are merely sadistic
games or personal preferences, not
mystical compulsions.
Fangs The teeth of the vrykolakas grow long, sharp, and deadly, granting it a fangs
Strike: an unarmed attack that deals piercing damage and enables the use of its Drink
Blood ability. Use the high damage for the creature’s level on the Strike Damage table
found on page 65 of the Gamemastery Guide.
Drink Blood Ȱɵ (divine, necromancy) Requirements The vrykolakas’ last action was a
successful fangs Strike; Eﬀect The vrykolakas sinks its fangs into that creature to
drink its blood. This requires an Athletics check against the creature’s Fortitude DC.
On a success, the creature becomes drained 1, and the vrykolakas regains HP equal
to 10% of its maximum HP, gaining any excess HP as temporary Hit Points. Drinking
Blood from a creature that’s already drained doesn’t restore any HP to the vampire,
but it increases the creature’s drained condition value by 1. A vrykolakas can also
consume blood that’s been emptied into a vessel for sustenance, but it gains no HP
from doing so.
The target creature’s drained condition value decreases by 1 per week. A blood
transfusion, which requires a successful DC 20 Medicine check and suﬃcient blood or
a blood donor, reduces the drained value by 1 after 10 minutes.
Rend Ȱɵ The vrykolakas gains the Rend action with its claws.
VRYKOLAKAS MASTER AbILITIES
Particularly powerful vrykolakas can create spawn from the bodies of their
victims and gain additional abilities, as detailed below. Creatures of 9th level or
higher can become a vrykolakas master, while those of 12th level or higher who
have survived for centuries might become a vrykolakas ancient.
Children of the Night (divine, enchantment, mental) The presence of a vrykolakas master
inspires savage creatures to crawl forth to do its bidding, including rat swarms, wargs,
werewolves, and similar creatures. The vrykolakas master can give telepathic orders
to these creatures within 100 feet, but they can’t communicate back.
Pestilential Aura (aura, divine, necromancy) 5 feet. Creatures beginning their turn in the
area while the vrykolakas is in its true form are exposed to bubonic plague.
Divine Innate Spells The vrykolakas master can cast vampiric touch (heightened
to half its level rounded up) and 3rd-level fear three times per day each as
divine innate spells. It uses a high DC for its level (Gamemastery Guide 66).
Bubonic Plague (disease) Saving Throw Fortitude (use a high DC for the
vrykolakas’s level [Gamemastery Guide 66]); Onset 1 day; Stage 1 fatigued (1 day);
Stage 2 enfeebled 2 and fatigued (1 day); Stage 3 enfeebled 3, fatigued, and takes
1d6 persistent bleed damage every 1d20 minutes (1 day)
Change Shape Ȱɵ (concentrate, divine, polymorph, transmutation) A vrykolakas
master can transform into a form resembling the body it had in life, with the eﬀects
of humanoid form but with unlimited duration. It loses its fangs and claw Strikes but
gains a +2 circumstance bonus to Deception checks to Impersonate in this form.
Create Spawn (divine, downtime, necromancy) If a creature dies after being reduced to
0 HP by Drink Blood, a vrykolakas master can turn this creature into a vrykolakas
spawn (page 276) by donating some of its own blood to the
creature and burying it in earth for 3 nights. Such vrykolakas
spawn are generally friendly to the vrykolakas that created
them, but they are not under its control and typically wander
oﬀ on their own rampage within 1d6 days of their creation.
Dominate
Animal
Ȱɵ
(divine,
enchantment,
incapacitation, mental) The vrykolakas can
cast dominate at will as a divine innate
spell that aﬀects only animals. The save
DC is a high DC for the vrykolakas’s
level (Gamemastery Guide 66), and a
creature that succeeds is immune to
that vrykolakas’s Dominate Animal
for 24 hours. Destroying the
vrykolakas ends the eﬀect, but
i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> F b 23 2023
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Feb 23, 2023
24868773
4425285
