i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> F b 23 2023
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Feb 23, 2023
24868703
4425215
O-R
O-R
205
205
Introduction
A-C
D
E-G
H-K
L-N
O-R
S-T
U-Z
Appendix
MOCK CHORUSES
Azuretzis form mock choruses in
emulation of their more powerful
kindred, aping the shifting
philosophies of proper choruses. While
mischievous or outright malevolent
to hostile or lawful creatures,
they interact amiably with chaotic
creatures, who run the risk of being
promptly followed–willingly or not–by
a serpentine gaggle of self-appointed
understudies.
The akizendri is immune to polymorph eﬀects unless it is a willing target. If blinded
or deafened, the akizendri automatically recovers at the end of its next turn as new
sensory organs grow to replace the compromised ones.
Speed 25 feet, ﬂy 25 feet, swim 25 feet; freedom of movement
Melee Ȱɵ jaws +12 (chaotic, ﬁnesse, magical), Damage 2d8+3 piercing plus 1d4 chaotic
and garbled thoughts
Melee Ȱɵ tail +12 (chaotic, ﬁnesse, magical), Damage 2d6+3 bludgeoning plus 1d4 chaotic
and Grab
Divine Innate Spells DC 20, attack +12; 3rd glyph of warding, secret page; 1st detect
alignment (at will, lawful only); Cantrips (2nd) acid splash, daze, ghost sound, mage
hand, sigil; Constant (4th) freedom of movement
Change Shape Ȱɵ (concentrate, divine, polymorph, transmutation) The akizendri takes
on the appearance of any Small or smaller creature. This doesn’t change its Speed or
its attack and damage bonuses with its Strikes, but might change the damage type
its Strikes deal.
Constrict Ȱɵ 1d8+3 bludgeoning, DC 20
Garbled Thoughts (divine, emotion, enchantment, mental) A creature hit by the akizendri’s
bite Strike must attempt a DC 20 Will save.
Success The creature is unaﬀected.
Failure The creature is stupeﬁed 1 for 1d4 rounds.
Critical Failure As failure, but the creature is also confused for 1 round.
Text Immersion (divine, transmutation) When the akizendri casts
secret page, it can physically immerse itself in the text, changing
the message of the text in the process. It can exit the book
at any point by Dismissing secret page, at which point it
appears in a space adjacent to the text. If it does so to
begin combat, it rolls a Deception check for initiative. As
long as it remains immersed in the text, the akizendri
has no body. It can communicate telepathically with
a creature as long as the creature touches the book
or scroll that contains the secret page. It can sense
nearby creatures using its entropy sense, but not in any
other way, nor can it use any attack, manipulate, or
move actions or speak aloud. If the object it is
immersed in is destroyed, the akizendri reappears
in an adjacent square and is stunned 1.
AZURETZI
Azuretzis are sinuous, serpentine creatures
with dagger-sharp teeth, covered in brilliant
blue scales with mottled purple and pink
highlights that shimmer in a pareidolic
approximation of leering, laughing faces.
The Maelstrom’s chaotic forces spawn
these small proteans from a variety of
sources: physical mating between older
azuretzis, the paradoxical promotion
of bestial naunets, and possibly from
mortal petitioners, though azuretzis may
just be confusing putative mortal memories
with experiences gained from games of
mimicry. Never expect azuretzis to operate by
any rational, self-consistent rules.
Azuretzis represent the humor of chaos,
particularly in the form of mockery and
parody via exaggerated mimicry, twisting
a target’s features into a laughingstock.
i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> F b 23 2023
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Feb 23, 2023
24868703
4425215
