i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> F b 23 2023
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Feb 23, 2023
24868537
4425049
A-C
A-C
39
39
Introduction
A-C
D
E-G
H-K
L-N
O-R
S-T
U-Z
Appendix
SIGNAL LIGHTS
To communicate at a distance,
blindheims ﬂash their eye lights in
speciﬁc patterns. This is instinctual,
not truly a language, and blindheims
are incapable of inventing new
signals. Some underground explorers
use lanterns to ape these signals.
Two Quick Flashes: Danger!
Long Pulse: All is safe.
Two Long Pulses: Captured food.
Very Long Pulse: Come here.
Rapid Strobing: Let’s mate!
Intermittent Quick Flashes: Excited!
One Long Flash, then Darkness: Sad.
Blindheim
Inhabitants of damp, subterranean caves, blindheims resemble stubby humanoids
with oversized, frog-like heads and bulbous eyes. Their eyes emit a soft glow at all
times, but a blindheim can draw back the heavy membrane that normally covers
them to emit an intense light as bright as day. These simple creatures use their
lights to draw in or disorient prey, mostly small animals like lizards, rodents, or
ﬁsh. However, they might go after larger prey if trying to feed their young. When
they encounter creatures their own size or larger they retreat, ﬂashing their eyes to
facilitate their escape if necessary. They often hunt in pairs or small packs. Using
their lights to coordinate from a distance, they slowly close in on the creatures
they hunt. One common hunting pattern involves one blindheim diving deep and
using its light to chase ﬁsh to the surface, while another up above snatches them
up and tosses them onto the land to eat later.
Blindheims make their nests in damp caverns, especially grottoes next to
underground lakes or bogs. An ideal nest rests in a cozy cavern with plenty of
fungus to eat, a few ﬁsh swimming in a lake, and the comforting drip of water
from the ceiling. Blindheims prefer to lead quiet and serene lives, and even when
ﬁrst born they emit only the meekest of vocalizations. A blindheim is born shining,
and its parents cuddle over it to dim the light so as to avoid attracting predators.
It’s not just animals that endanger blindheims. Underground peoples ﬁnd the
creatures useful and attempt to capture them for specialized purposes. Duergars
use them as “raid frogs,” placing heavy hoods over blindheims’ heads
and revealing them suddenly during raids to blind their foes. They
sometimes send the creatures along with their slaves that lack
darkvision into the mines as a source of light. Drow use them for
some of these same purposes, and some nobles have been known
to treat the creatures as mere lanterns, having them hoisted to the
ceilings of their halls. Neither duergars nor drow take good care
of the captive creatures, so blindheims rarely last long in captivity.
BLINDHEIM
CREATURE 2
N
SMALL
ANIMAL
Perception +9; darkvision
Skills Acrobatics +7, Athletics +6 (+9 to Leap or Swim), Stealth +7
Str +2, Dex +3, Con +3, Int –4, Wis +1, Cha –2
AC 18; Fort +9, Ref +9, Will +5
HP 27; Immunities blinded, light
Speed 25 feet, climb 15 feet, swim 15 feet
Melee Ȱɵ jaws +10, Damage 1d12+2 piercing
Melee Ȱɵ claw +11 (agile, ﬁnesse), Damage 1d8+2 slashing
Spotlight Ȱɵ (concentrate, light) Bright light shines from
the blindheim’s eyes in a 30‑foot emanation (also
creating dim light to 60 feet). Each creature
in the bright light when the blindheim
uses this action, or who enters it
while the light continues, must attempt
a DC 18 Fortitude save. It is then temporarily
immune for 1 hour. This light remains until
the blindheim dims its eyes by using this
action again.
Critical Success The creature is unaﬀected.
Success The creature is dazzled for
1 round.
Failure The creature is blinded
for 1d4 rounds.
Critical Failure The creature
is blinded for 1 hour.
i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> F b 23 2023
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Feb 23, 2023
24868537
4425049
