i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> F b 23 2023
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Feb 23, 2023
24868636
4425148
Bestiary 2
138
138
GIANT GRINDYLOWS
While most grindylows are Small, a
minute percentage of these creatures
keep growing throughout their lives.
Those that become Large or larger
gain the giant trait and often become
champions of their schools.
Grindylow
The top half of a grindylow looks vaguely like that of a goblin, but from the waist
down, their bodies split into a tangle of suckered, wriggling tentacles. They dwell
mostly in shallow waters both fresh and briny, including lakes, rivers, coastal
regions, and near coral reefs. Grindylows generally organize into schools ranging
from a few individuals to a few hundred. Smaller schools can sometimes be
brought under the leadership of a powerful aquatic creature, though such alliances
last only until the school faces a major setback, at which point the surviving
grindylows scatter and form smaller schools of their own.
Grindylows aren’t territorial, but they are pragmatic; while they rarely build
permanent structures, they will adopt a good hunting ground for generations until
driven away by predators. They often lair in mobile shelters, such as a sargasso of
seaweed or the hull of an abandoned ship. They are skilled scavengers and hunters
that eat anything they can sink their teeth into.
Grindylows respect the power of bigger sea predators but have a special hatred
for squids (or anything they believe looks like a squid). Sailors plying grindylow-
infested waters often paint the images of squids on the bottoms of their hulls in
hopes of warding the little terrors off. While this can keep smaller schools at bay,
it can also backﬁre, potentially inciting larger groups to gather for a coordinated
attack; this becomes especially more likely if the ship’s route becomes predictable.
This hatred of squids does not extend to
other tentacled creatures; grindylows
consider octopuses to be the
epitome of grace and power.
GRINDYLOW
CREATURE 0
CE
SMALL
ABERRATION
AMPHIBIOUS
Perception +5; darkvision
Languages Aquan
Skills Athletics +5, Stealth +7, Survival +5
Str +1, Dex +3, Con +2, Int –1, Wis +3, Cha +0
Items spear
AC 15; Fort +6, Ref +7, Will +5
HP 14
Attack of Opportunity Ǻȓ A grindylow gains
1 extra reaction at the start of each of its
turns that it can use only to make an Attack
of Opportunity with a tentacle. It can’t use more than one
Attack of Opportunity triggered by the same choice.
Speed 10 feet, swim 25 feet
Melee Ȱɵ bite +7 (ﬁnesse), Damage 1d6+1 piercing
Melee Ȱɵ tentacle +7 (agile, ﬁnesse, trip), Damage 1d4+1
bludgeoning plus Grab
Melee Ȱɵ spear +5, Damage 1d6+1 piercing
Ranged Ȱɵ spear +7 (thrown 20 feet), Damage 1d6+1
piercing
Clinging Suckers When a grindylow Grabs a
creature larger than itself, it attaches to
that creature. The grabbed creature is not
immobilized, but if it moves, the grindylow
moves with it. If the creature is Medium or
smaller, it takes a –5-foot status penalty
to its Speeds while the grindylow is
attached. The grindylow is flat-footed
while it is attached to a creature.
Jet ʚʖ (move) The grindylow moves up to 60 feet in a straight
line through the water without triggering reactions.
i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> F b 23 2023
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Feb 23, 2023
24868636
4425148
