i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> F b 23 2023
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Feb 23, 2023
24868524
4425036
Bestiary 2
26
26
ASSASSIN WINE
The berries of an assassin vine are
something of an acquired taste to
most, but the process of aging the
berries into wine can remove the
unpleasant aftertaste—provided the
berries are harvested from a living
vine. After the vine’s death, toxins in
the plant quickly seep into its berries,
making them unsuitable for harvest,
and as a result, assassin vine wine is a
dangerous delicacy to prepare. Those
who master the art, though, ﬁnd that
the proceeds can more than cover
the cost of having to periodically hire
adventures to help curtail an unruly—
and—hungry vineyard.
Assassin Vine
The assassin vine is a carnivorous plant with a voracious appetite. Rather than
consuming creatures directly, it creates its own fertilizer by entangling prey
and squeezing the life from it. Once the plant has killed a creature, it pulls the
carcass over to its roots to feed from the decaying ﬂesh. Although an assassin
vine lacks eyes, it can detect and track prey through a combination of using its
root systems to detect vibrations through topsoil and its leaves to detect heat
changes in the vicinity. Although the assassin vine has no real intelligence, its
learned behaviors mimic those of cunning ambush hunters.
As it is slow moving, the assassin vine typically remains rooted in a single area
for as long as it has sufﬁcient prey. Though most often found along woodland
trails or swamps, these plants can also be encountered in more rural settlements,
poorly tended ﬁelds, and vineyards. While assassin vines can’t be trained in the
classical sense, they can be used as defenses, and woodland-dwelling creatures
like goblins and fey have been known to cultivate assassin vines as guardians
for less-used routes into their lairs. In such cases, the tenders often seek to
make the path more obvious than its disuse would otherwise suggest, while
simultaneously working to ensure the bones of the vines’ victims are removed to
keep their presence a secret, resulting in what appears to be an easy
approach to the den but is actually an organic ambush.
Mature assassin vines grow to 20 feet long and have smaller
vines extending off the main trunk that reach from to 5 to 10
feet in length. The smallest of these vines sprout every 6 inches
or so; they tend to grow clusters of full leaves and occasionally bear
small berries. A recently fed assassin vine can have bunches of plump,
blood‑red berries that are juicy and tart but leave a slightly unpleasant
iron aftertaste, as if from the faint taste of blood from a bitten lip.
ASSASSIN VINE
CREATURE 3
N
LARGE
MINDLESS
PLANT
Perception +10; tremorsense 30 feet, low-light vision
Skills Athletics +9, Stealth +9 (+11 in forests or
grasslands)
Str +4, Dex +0, Con +3, Int –5, Wis +3, Cha +0
Camouﬂage The assassin vine can Hide in natural
environments even if it doesn’t have cover.
AC 18; Fort +10, Ref +7, Will +8
HP 68; Weaknesses ﬁre 5, slashing 5
Grasping Foliage Ǻȓ (primal, transmutation) Trigger
The assassin vine detects a creature within 20 feet
via tremorsense; Eﬀect The assassin vine causes
vegetation within a 20-foot emanation to writhe for
1 round, turning this area into diﬃcult terrain. When
a creature starts its turn in this area, it must attempt a
DC 20 Reﬂex save. On a failure, it takes a –10-foot
circumstance penalty to its Speeds until it
leaves the area, and on a critical
failure it is also immobilized for
1 round. A creature can
attempt to Escape to
remove these eﬀects.
Assassin vines are immune
to Grasping Foliage.
Speed 5 feet
Melee Ȱɵ vine +12 (reach 10 feet), Damage
1d8+6 bludgeoning plus Grab
Constrict Ȱɵ 1d8+4 bludgeoning, DC 20
i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> F b 23 2023
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Feb 23, 2023
24868524
4425036
