i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> F b 23 2023
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Feb 23, 2023
24868804
4425316
Bestiary 2
306
306
The level of a poison is the level of the monster inﬂicting
the poison. The poison follows the rules for aﬄictions
found on page 457 of the Core Rulebook.
Push Ȱɵ Requirements The monster’s last action was a success
with a Strike that lists Push in its damage entry; Eﬀect The
monster automatically knocks the target away from the
monster. Unless otherwise noted in the ability description,
the creature is pushed 5 feet. If the attack was a critical hit,
this distance is doubled.
Regeneration This monster regains the listed number of Hit
Points each round at the beginning of its turn. Its dying
condition never increases beyond dying 3 as long as its
regeneration is active. However, if it takes damage of a
type listed in the regeneration entry, its regeneration
deactivates until the end of its next turn. Deactivate the
regeneration before applying any damage of a listed type,
since that damage might kill the monster by bringing it
to dying 4.
Rend Ȱɵ A Rend entry lists a Strike the monster has;
Requirements The monster hit the same enemy with two
consecutive Strikes of the listed type in the same round;
Eﬀect The monster automatically deals that Strike’s damage
again to the enemy.
Retributive Strike Ǻȓ Trigger An enemy damages the
monster’s ally, and both are within 15 feet of the monster;
Eﬀect The ally gains resistance to all damage against the
triggering damage equal to 2 + the monster’s level. If the
foe is within reach, the monster makes a melee Strike
against it.
Scent Scent involves sensing creatures or objects by smell,
and is usually a vague sense. The range is listed in the ability,
and it functions only if the creature or object being detected
emits an aroma (for instance, incorporeal creatures usually
do not exude an aroma).
If a creature emits a heavy aroma or is upwind, the GM
can double or even triple the range of scent abilities used to
detect that creature, and the GM can reduce the range if a
creature is downwind.
Shield Block Ǻȓ Trigger The monster has its shield raised and
takes damage from a physical attack; Eﬀect The monster
snaps its shield into place to deﬂect a blow. The shield
prevents the monster from taking an amount of damage
up to the shield’s Hardness. The monster and the shield
each take any remaining damage, possibly breaking or
destroying the shield.
Swallow Whole Ȱɵ (attack) The monster attempts to swallow
a creature of the listed size or smaller that it has grabbed in
its jaws or mouth. If a swallowed creature is of the maximum
size listed, the monster can’t use Swallow Whole again.
If the creature is smaller than the maximum, the monster
can usually swallow more creatures; the GM determines
the maximum. The monster attempts an Athletics check
opposed by the grabbed creature’s Reﬂex DC. If it succeeds,
it swallows the creature. The monster’s mouth or jaws no
longer grab a creature it has swallowed, so the monster is
free to use them to Strike or Grab once again. The monster
can’t attack creatures it has swallowed.
A swallowed creature is grabbed, is slowed 1, and has to
hold its breath or start suﬀocating. The swallowed creature
takes the listed amount of damage when ﬁrst swallowed
and at the end of each of its turns while it’s swallowed. If
the victim Escapes this ability’s grabbed condition, it exits
through the monster’s mouth. This frees any other creature
grabbed in the monster’s mouth or jaws. A swallowed
creature can attack the monster that has swallowed it, but
only with unarmed attacks or with weapons of light Bulk
or less. The swallowing creature is ﬂat-footed against the
attack. If the monster takes piercing or slashing damage
equaling or exceeding the listed Rupture value from a single
attack or spell, the swallowed creature cuts itself free. A
creature that gets free by either Escaping or cutting itself
free can immediately breathe and exits the swallowing
monster’s space.
If the monster dies, a swallowed creature can be
freed by creatures adjacent to the corpse if they spend
a combined total of 3 actions cutting the monster open
with a weapon or unarmed attack that deals piercing or
slashing damage.
Swarm Mind This monster doesn’t have a single mind
(typically because it’s a swarm of smaller creatures), and is
immune to mental eﬀects that target only a speciﬁc number
of creatures. It is still subject to mental eﬀects that aﬀect all
creatures in an area.
Telepathy (aura, divination, magical) A monster with
telepathy can communicate mentally with any creatures
within the listed radius, as long as they share a language.
This doesn’t give any special access to their thoughts,
and communicates no more information than normal
speech would.
Throw Rock Ȱɵ The monster interacts to pick up a rock within
reach or retrieve a stowed rock and throws it, making a
ranged Strike.
Trample ̂ˬ The monster Strides up to double its Speed
and can move through the spaces of creatures of the listed
size, Trampling each creature whose space it enters. The
monster can attempt to Trample the same creature only
once in a single use of Trample. The monster deals the
damage of the listed Strike, but trampled creatures can
attempt a basic Reﬂex save at the listed DC (no damage on
a critical success, half damage on a success, double damage
on a critical failure).
Tremorsense Tremorsense allows a monster to feel the
vibrations through a solid surface caused by movement.
It is usually an imprecise sense with a limited range
(listed in the ability). Tremorsense functions only if the
monster is on the same surface as the subject, and only
if the subject is moving along (or burrowing through) the
surface.
Wavesense This sense allows a monster to feel vibrations
caused by movement through a liquid. It’s usually an
imprecise sense with a limited range (listed in the ability).
Wavesense functions only if the monster and the subject
are in the same body of liquid, and only if the subject is
moving through the liquid.
i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> F b 23 2023
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Feb 23, 2023
24868804
4425316
