i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> F b 23 2023
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Feb 23, 2023
24868549
4425061
A-C
A-C
5151
Introduction
A-C
D
E-G
H-K
L-N
O-R
S-T
U-Z
Appendix
CHOKER TRINKETS
A choker’s nest is small and conﬁned,
as the choker prefers. It doesn’t tidy
its nest, so everything from animal
bones to valuable treasures might
be within, compacted into one mass.
A choker in the wilderness might
have a few remnants of society taken
from victims who wandered through.
These remnants can include candles,
maps, or animal traps. Chokers in
cities have stolen goods appropriate
to their location: books and scrolls if
a library or wizard’s college is nearby,
steins and pillows near a tavern, or
ﬁshhooks and shipping manifests near
a dock, for example. Chokers almost
never have edible or drinkable items,
as they prefer to consume these
“delicacies” themselves—even magical
potions and alchemical items.
Choker
With long, cartilaginous limbs and gray skin, chokers easily hide in stony alcoves,
rocky ﬁssures, and darkened staircases to ambush their prey. The strange little
aberrations prefer to pick off weak and solitary creatures, especially those that
wander off from their packs or communities. A choker’s long, spongy arms are
ﬂexible but deceptively strong. The ﬁngers can tighten rapidly and are ridged with
spiky, tooth-like structures that provide an incredible grip. A choker typically
strangles its prey to death, then drags the body off or dismembers it using crude
tools if the body is too big to carry. If confronted or outnumbered, a choker
tries to escape, often compressing into a tight passage to get away. Chokers that
encounter humanoids exhibit intense curiosity about their culture, society, and the
products of art and industry. This interest isn’t very deep—it just results in chokers
that like killing people and collecting any of their items that seem sophisticated,
such as jewelry, nice clothing, or written texts.
Chokers sometimes gather in settlements, usually sticking to slums or abandoned
structures. These chokers stalk at night, ﬂopping across rooftops, tapping at
windows, and scuttling through sewers, gutters, and chimneys to get at prey. An
urban choker that ﬁnds prey early on its hunt—a wandering pet, a person who
is out alone—might spend the rest of the night indulging its curiosity about the
products of society. A curious choker might abscond with all sorts of odd items,
from tavern signs to library books to roof tiles. A choker usually pilfers only one
item at a time, but as its collection grows, it might need to ﬁnd a larger nest to
accommodate its collection, then move its pieces one by one to the new home.
CHOKER
CREATURE 2
CE
SMALL
ABERRATION
Perception +7; darkvision
Languages Aklo, Undercommon
Skills Athletics +9 (+11 to Grapple), Stealth +9
Str +3, Dex +3, Con +1, Int –3, Wis +1, Cha –2
AC 18; Fort +7, Ref +10, Will +7
HP 28
Yank Ǻȓ (manipulate) Trigger An enemy targets the choker with an attack; Eﬀect The
choker tries to pull a creature it has grabbed or restrained into the path of the attack.
The choker attempts an Athletics check, including its bonus to Grapple. If it succeeds
against the grabbed or restrained creature’s Fortitude DC, the choker redirects the
attack to that creature, and the attacker compares its attack roll result against
the new target’s AC.
The choker must move the creature into a space adjacent to itself. The
creature must also be moved within the attacker’s reach against a
melee attack or into a space between itself and the attacker
against a ranged attack. The choker can’t use this ability
to make the attacker target itself, even if it’s grabbing or
restraining the attacker.
Speed 20 feet, climb 15 feet
Melee Ȱɵ arm +11 (reach 10 feet), Damage 1d6+3 bludgeoning
plus strangling ﬁngers
Constrict Ȱɵ 1d6+3 bludgeoning, DC 19
Hidden Movement If the choker starts its turn hidden from or
undetected by a creature, that creature is ﬂat-footed against
the choker’s attacks until the end of the turn.
Strangling Fingers Any creature hit by a choker’s arm
Strike is automatically grabbed, and the choker
begins to strangle the target. The creature is
suﬀocating and can’t speak as long as it’s strangled.
This prevents it from casting spells with a verbal component or
activating items with a command component.
i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> F b 23 2023
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Feb 23, 2023
24868549
4425061
