i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> F b 23 2023
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Feb 23, 2023
24868637
4425149
E-G
E-G
139
139
Introduction
A-C
D
E-G
H-K
L-N
O-R
S-T
U-Z
Appendix
A HISTORY OF NEUTRALITY
Grippli villages rarely get involved in
the concerns of other communities,
preferring to focus on maintaining
relative peace within their own
small societies. Legends explain
this attitude with a tale of a grippli
champion who dragged his people
into a war between humans and
charau-kas. The stories diﬀer as to
which side the gripplis took, but every
version ends with the bloody deaths
of the hero and his family. Since that
time, village elders claim, gripplis have
done their best to remain far from the
conﬂicts of others.
Grippli
Gripplis make their homes in the treetops of tropical jungles and forests. These
frog-like humanoids are uniquely adapted to their environment, with oversized
eyes that give them keen vision in both light and dark and large toes that allow
them to easily scale trees. Gripplis vary widely in physical appearance, with
their physiologies inﬂuenced by their surrounding environment. Those who live
in verdant forests, for example, typically have bright green skin and red eyes.
In contrast, gripplis who live in regions of rot and decay have mottled-brown
coloration, and those who dwell near lakes or streams may bear bright blue and
orange stripes. Typical gripplis stand just over 2 feet tall and weigh approximately
30 pounds.
Whatever region they come from, gripplis tend to be peaceful hunter-gatherers.
Due to their modest understanding of agriculture, gripplis don’t maintain typical
farms like other humanoids do. Rather, they cultivate mushroom patches and
gather a wide array of fruits from the surrounding wilderness. While most gripplis
hunt insects, some societies also capture and breed them, nurturing herds of
giant dragonﬂies or beetles that they eventually slaughter for food. Particularly
enterprising gripplis might even seek out and tame larger
ﬂying insects to use as mounts during their hunts. The
rearing of such massive insects is no easy feat, however,
so gripplis who manage to do so are often heralded as
local heroes.
Gripplis usually construct their villages in particularly
dense copses, stringing thin rope bridges between wide wooden
platforms built around each trunk. They make use of broad
leaves and thick branches to further obscure their villages,
making them especially difﬁcult to spot from the forest ﬂoor,
and riddle the surrounding forest with labyrinthine trails that
only they can navigate.
Grippli scouts typically keep watch on the outskirts
of grippli settlements. More potent gripplis inhabit the
settlements, be they religious leaders, powerful druids, or
agile warriors that, due to their small size, focus more on
ﬁnesse weapons and ranged attacks than on melee tactics.
GRIPPLI SCOUT
CREATURE 1
N
SMALL
GRIPPLI
HUMANOID
Perception +8; darkvision
Languages Common, Grippli
Skills Acrobatics +7, Athletics +4, Nature +6,
Stealth +7 (+9 in forests), Survival +6
Str +1, Dex +4, Con +2, Int +0, Wis +3, Cha –1
Items dart (5), leather armor, net, sickle
AC 18; Fort +7, Ref +9, Will +6
HP 20
Speed 25 feet, climb 20 feet; jungle stride
Melee Ȱɵ sickle +9 (agile, ﬁnesse, trip), Damage
1d4+1 slashing
Ranged Ȱɵ dart +9 (agile, thrown 20 feet), Damage
1d4+1 piercing
Hurl Net Ȱɵ Requirements The grippli is wielding a net in two hands; Eﬀect The grippli
makes a ranged Strike (with a +9 modiﬁer) against a Medium or smaller creature
within 20 feet. On a hit, the target is ﬂat-footed and takes a –10-foot circumstance
penalty to its Speeds. On a critical hit, the creature is restrained instead. The DC to
Escape the net is 16. A creature adjacent to the target can Interact with the net to
remove it.
Jungle Stride Gripplis ignore diﬃcult terrain in forests and jungles.
i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> F b 23 2023
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Feb 23, 2023
24868637
4425149
