i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> F b 23 2023
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Feb 23, 2023
24868706
4425218
Bestiary 2
208
208
PSYCHOPOMP TRAITORS
Some psychopomps view their task
of sorting souls as ultimately hollow
and meaningless, since the multiverse
itself must one day end. Eons ago,
these rebels shirked their duties
and ﬂed to the empty corners of
the planes, becoming a new type of
evil creature called a sahkil. Sahkils
feed on mortal fears, particularly
fears of death, and enjoy tormenting
those who must die. Psychopomps
generally leave these malcontents
alone, except when sahkils interfere
with the proper ﬂow of souls.
Psychopomp
Many psychopomps are intimately involved with the Boneyard’s massive
bureaucracy. Few pursue mercy, justice, or personal gain; their duties to Pharasma
and her Boneyard are supreme. Nevertheless, individual psychopomps interpret
their duties in different ways, which might put them in conﬂict with mortals or even
with each other.
ESOBOK
Esoboks are brute hunters and pugnacious sentinels that serve as the guard dogs of
the Boneyard. These squat, powerful quadrupeds have a frill of dark feathers around
their distinctive heads which resemble a crocodile skull. Esoboks rarely bother with
those who are truly dead, allowing the dead of the Boneyard to go about their
business while remaining watchful for danger. Though cunning when snifﬁng out
threats to the Boneyard or to their psychopomp handlers, they’re among the least
intelligent of the psychopomps and rarely speak except to utter growling threats.
The wise listen when an esobok makes a threat, as it won’t do so twice.
ESOBOK
CREATURE 3
N
MEDIUM
MONITOR
PSYCHOPOMP
Perception +12; darkvision, lifesense 60 feet, scent (imprecise) 60 feet
Languages Abyssal, Celestial, Infernal, Requian
Skills Acrobatics +8, Athletics +10, Intimidation +9, Religion +4, Stealth +8, Survival +10
Str +3, Dex +3, Con +4, Int –3, Wis +3, Cha +2
AC 18; Fort +11, Ref +8, Will +8
HP 55; Immunities death eﬀects, disease; Resistances negative 5, poison 5
Speed 30 feet
Melee Ȱɵ jaws +12 (magical), Damage 1d10+3 piercing plus Grab
and spirit touch
Melee Ȱɵ claw +12 (agile, magical), Damage 1d6+3 slashing
plus spirit touch
Divine Innate Spells DC 17; 2nd invisibility (×3; self only)
Pounce Ȱɵ The esobok Strides and then makes a
Strike. If it began this action hidden, it remains
hidden until after the Strike.
Spirit Touch
An
esobok’s
Strikes aﬀect incorporeal
creatures
with
the
eﬀects of a ghost touch
property rune and deal
1d6 negative damage to
living creatures and 1d6 positive damage to undead.
Wrench Spirit Ȱɵ (attack, divine, incapacitation, necromancy) Requirement
A creature is grabbed by the esobok’s jaws; Eﬀect The esobok releases
the target from the Grab but wrenches its spirit free as it does so. The creature
must attempt a DC 20 Will save. Creatures without souls (such as most constructs)
and creatures whose bodies and souls are one (such as most celestials, ﬁends, and
monitors) that roll a failure or critical failure on the save get a success instead.
Critical Success The creature is unaﬀected.
Success The target is stunned 1.
Failure The esobok wrenches the target’s soul from its body
into its jaws. Mindless undead creatures of level 2 or lower are
destroyed, other undead creatures are stunned for 1 round, and all
other creatures are paralyzed. At the end of each of its turns, a creature
paralyzed by this eﬀect can attempt a new save to end the eﬀect. The
paralysis ends automatically if the esobok attempts a jaws Strike or speaks.
Critical Failure As failure, but as long as a creature is stunned or paralyzed, it is
also stupeﬁed 2.
i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> F b 23 2023
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Feb 23, 2023
24868706
4425218
