i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> F b 23 2023
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Feb 23, 2023
24868741
4425253
S-T
S-T
243
243
Introduction
A-C
D
E-G
H-K
L-N
O-R
S-T
U-Z
Appendix
SKULK TREASURE
The greediness of skulks and
their easy relationship with
violence means the creatures often
accumulate a fair amount of valuable
coin and items. They prefer ﬁne
weapons above all else and jealously
protect such ﬁnds. Since clothing
inhibits their natural camouﬂage,
skulks either store this treasure in
a secure location or carry it in such
a way that their bodies block what
they are carrying from sight.
Skulk
The cowardly and lazy skulks live on the fringes of organized societies and steal
from others without a second thought. Even murder is merely another necessity,
and they think nothing of creeping into a house, dispatching the residents, and
taking what they want.
Their chameleon-like ability to blend into their surroundings makes skulks
difﬁcult to detect, so their ever-present populations around the periphery of
large settlements are nearly impossible to dislodge permanently. They typically
travel in small groups of no more than 16 individuals, since groups larger
than that tend to break into violence directed at one other. While skulks see
themselves as sharing a common history of being cast out and hated, this is not a
strong enough bond to hold large groups of the creatures together with a shared
purpose for very long.
Entrances and exits from cities, especially less-guarded access ways around
sewers and the like, are skulks’ favorite stomping grounds. These sites allow
them to closely observe who comes and goes from the city while also affording
them swift escape options, should the authorities uncover their presence. On rare
occasions, a well-disciplined skulk can rise to prominence within the local thieves’
guild and become sought after for difﬁcult jobs. Their repugnant personalities and
overwhelming selﬁshness, however, usually means they are unable to secure long-
lasting leadership roles.
A typical skulk is 6 feet tall with similar body structure to a gangly human.
Skulks mature quickly and can live up to 50 years, although most meet a violent
end long before then. The rare skulk who manages to escape their society of
violence and craven bitterness can be of any alignment, but those skulks who
remain bound by their traditions always see these self-imposed exiles
as the worst kind of traitors, and the exiles are often targeted for
eradication to the exclusion of all other victims. More than one
band of skulks has accidentally engineered its own doom after
throwing caution to the wind and exposing its existence to
the authorities in an ill-planned but violently passionate
attempt to track down such an exile.
SKULK
CREATURE 1
CE
MEDIUM
HUMANOID
SKULK
Perception +5; low-light vision
Languages Common
Skills Acrobatics +6, Deception +6, Society +4, Stealth
+8, Thievery +6
Str +0, Dex +3, Con +2, Int +1, Wis +2, Cha +1
Items dagger (2), shortsword
Camouﬂaged Step The skulk gains the beneﬁt of the
Cover Tracks action in forests and subterranean settings
without moving at half Speed.
Chameleon Skin The skulk’s skin shifts and changes to match
the surroundings. As long as most of their body is not covered
by clothing or armor, the skulk gains a +2 circumstance bonus to
Stealth checks to Hide.
AC 16; Fort +7, Ref +8, Will +5
HP 21
Speed 25 feet
Melee Ȱɵ shortsword +8 (agile, ﬁnesse, versatile S),
Damage 1d6+2 piercing
Ranged Ȱɵ dagger +8 (agile, thrown 10 feet, versatile S),
Damage 1d4+2 piercing
Sneak Attack A skulk’s Strikes deal an extra 1d6 precision
damage to ﬂat-footed creatures.
i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> F b 23 2023
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Feb 23, 2023
24868741
4425253
