i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> F b 23 2023
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Feb 23, 2023
24868667
4425179
L-N
L-N
169
169
Introduction
A-C
D
E-G
H-K
L-N
O-R
S-T
U-Z
Appendix
GREATER RITUAL GATES
Well-versed and knowledgeable lurkers
in light can lead groups of their kind in
a more advanced Ritual Gate to enable
travel to other planes, rather than
just summoning. Doing so requires
the sacriﬁce of a creature of equal or
greater size to the lurker in light who
wishes to travel the planes. Multiple
lurkers in light can travel in this way,
but this requires multiple sacriﬁces.
The creation of a greater Ritual Gate is
a 1-hour activity, at the end of which
all aﬀected lurkers in light travel to the
same plane, chosen from the Material
Plane, one of the Elemental Planes, or
the First World.
Lurker in Light
These malicious and strange fey appear as fairies about 2 feet tall, with insectile
wings, large eyes, and bulbous heads. They slaughter and cause mischief in
a pattern only their alien intellect understands, but they’ve been seen to take
particular umbrage against dwarves, gnomes, and creatures who live in darkness.
With their grudges and pursuit of their own wicked and sadistic whims, lurkers in
light deftly overturn the conventional wisdom that creatures associated with light
are benign and friendly.
While lurkers in light are fey and have ties to the First World, these creatures are
often found elsewhere in the Great Beyond. They are particularly fond of invading
the Shadow Plane to bring light to those who dwell there—not to help, but to
spread misery and pain among those to whom light is agonizing.
LURKER IN LIGHT
CREATURE 5
NE
SMALL
FEY
Perception +13; low-light vision
Languages Aklo, Common, Sylvan
Skills Acrobatics +14, Nature +11, Occultism +11, Stealth +14, Survival +13
Str +0, Dex +5, Con +2, Int +2, Wis +4, Cha +2
AC 22; Fort +9, Ref +14, Will +13
HP 72; Immunities blinded; Weaknesses cold iron 5
Speed 25 feet, ﬂy 25 feet
Melee Ȱɵ claw +14 (agile, ﬁnesse), Damage 2d6+2 slashing
Ranged Ȱɵ mote of light +14 (agile, magical, range increment 10 feet), Damage 2d4+2
force plus lurker’s glow
Primal Innate Spells DC 22, attack +14; 4th dimension door (only when in
bright light, and only to an area in bright light), summon fey; 3rd blindness,
searing light, summon fey; Cantrips (3rd) dancing lights, ghost sound, light,
mage hand
Blend with Light Ǻȓ Trigger The lurker in light uses a move action; Requirements The
lurker in light is in an area of bright light; Eﬀect The lurker in light becomes invisible
until it enters an area of dim light or darkness, or until it uses a hostile action.
Lurker’s Glow (evocation, light, primal) A creature that takes damage
from a lurker in light’s mote of light must attempt a DC 22
Will save.
Success The creature is unaﬀected and is temporarily
immune to lurker’s glow for 24 hours.
Failure The creature is lined in golden light for
1 minute and can’t be concealed during
this time. If the creature becomes
invisible, it is concealed rather
than being undetected.
Critical Failure As failure, but the
creature sheds bright light in
a 20-foot emanation for the
duration of the eﬀect. In addition, the creature is dazzled on its
ﬁrst turn after failing this save.
Ritual Gate Ȱɵ (conjuration, primal) Requirements The lurker
in light has reduced a living creature to 0 Hit Points on
this turn or its previous turn and has a summon fey innate
spell available; Eﬀect The lurker in light casts summon fey
with only a verbal component, using the act of slaughter to
replace the normal material and somatic components for the spell. If the fey creature
summoned has the same alignment as the lurker in light, the lurker in light can sustain
the summon fey spell for up to 1 hour instead of 1 minute.
Sneak Attack A lurker in light’s Strikes deal an additional 2d6 precision damage to
ﬂat‑footed creatures.
i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> F b 23 2023
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Feb 23, 2023
24868667
4425179
