i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> F b 23 2023
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Feb 23, 2023
24868716
4425228
Bestiary 2
218
218
QUICKLING PRANKS
Quicklings consider cruelty to
be the pinnacle of pranking. As
a relatively minor example, a
quickling may spend an entire day
constantly moving food out of reach
of a starving man. More commonly,
however, a quickling prefers to cause
pain and injury directly, such as by
suddenly replacing a dinner fork with
a red-hot knife as it’s picked up, or
slashing the legs of a traveler moving
through tall grass.
Quickling
Few creatures can match a quickling’s speed. These malicious fey creatures delight in
striking with blinding speed and accuracy, racing in to stab and slash at foes before
scampering away for cover with maddening­—even frightening—swiftness. Stories
of people simply doubling over, bleeding from what appear to be spontaneously
opening wounds, are often eyewitness accounts of quickling attacks.
Quicklings actively hate the “slow-paced dullards” they encounter every day,
delighting in inﬂicting suffering and pain on creatures they deem too sluggish to
matter. While they are related to kinder fey such as brownies and pixies, quicklings
care only for their own merriment. They see their own cruel pranks as the height of
humor and have full conﬁdence that their speed and invisibility will keep them safe
from harm. They occasionally form gangs of up to a dozen individuals, although
the group usually devolves very quickly into mayhem, as they inevitably perform
increasingly deadly pranks against each other.
QUICKLING
CREATURE 3
UNCOMMON
CE
SMALL
FEY
Perception +9; low-light vision
Languages Aklo, Common, Sylvan
Skills Acrobatics +13, Crafting +8, Deception +8, Nature +8, Stealth +11, Survival +6,
Thievery +11
Str +0, Dex +4, Con +1, Int +3, Wis +1, Cha +3
Items lethargy poison (3 doses), shortsword
AC 22; Fort +6, Ref +13, Will +8
HP 25; Weaknesses cold iron 5
Slow Susceptibility The quickling takes a –2 status penalty to saving throws against
eﬀects that cause the slowed condition. If the quickling ever
becomes slowed, they lose their supernatural speed, can’t Fade
from View, and become sickened 1 for the duration of
the slow. They also can’t reduce this sickened
condition for the duration of the slowed eﬀect.
Can’t Catch Me Ǻȓ Trigger The quickling is
targeted by a Strike; Eﬀect The quickling
darts aside, gaining a +2 circumstance bonus
to AC, then Strides up to half their Speed after
the Strike resolves.
Speed 100 feet
Melee Ȱɵ shortsword +11
(agile, ﬁnesse, versatile S),
Damage 1d6+2 piercing plus
lethargy poison
Primal Innate Spells DC 20; 2nd shatter; 1st
ventriloquism; Cantrips (2nd) dancing lights, prestidigitation
Fade from View Ȳ˓ Requirements The quickling used no attack, manipulate, or move actions
in the previous round; Eﬀect The quickling becomes invisible until it uses an attack,
manipulate, or move action. The quickling can’t use Fade from View again for 1d4 rounds.
Sneak Attack The quickling’s Strikes deal an extra 1d6 precision damage to
ﬂat-footed creatures.
Supernatural Speed The quickling’s speed, combined with nearly instantaneous
acceleration and deceleration, enables them to move in astonishing ways. As
long as they have a ﬁrm surface to travel across, they can Stride their full
movement vertically or horizontally. They can even run across unstable
surfaces, such as water, in the same way,
although dangerous surfaces (acid, lava,
etc.) harm them as normal. They must
end their movement on a horizontal surface
capable of bearing their weight or else they fall.
i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> F b 23 2023
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Feb 23, 2023
24868716
4425228
