i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> F b 23 2023
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Feb 23, 2023
24868676
4425188
Bestiary 2
178
178
LUNAR NAGA ADDICTION
Some people enjoy the eﬀects
of lunar naga venom and have
developed ways to enhance the
euphoric qualities through alchemical
reﬁnement. While some merchants
pay nagas for their venom, most hire
hunters to capture and enslave the
creatures. As a result, nagas despise
any humanoid who sells or buys their
venom for any reason. Reﬁned lunar
naga venom is identical in price and
eﬀect to dreamtime tea (Pathﬁnder
Gamemastery Guide 121).
Naga
Nagas are identiﬁable by their serpentine bodies and strange, humanlike heads.
All nagas have magical abilities and great intelligence, which they combine to
advance their own agendas.
LUNAR NAGA
Lunar nagas are skilled diviners and astrologers whose dark scales and white hair
sparkle with motes of light that mimic the night skies to which they are forever
drawn. While they are less physically imposing than other nagas, they possess a
graceful beauty that many ﬁnd entrancing, even without the help of the naga’s
inherent magical abilities. Earning a lunar naga’s trust is difﬁcult, but not impossible,
especially for someone who shares the creature’s interest in the celestial sphere.
As they have no hands, lunar nagas use mage hand to manipulate delicate
instruments and ﬁne telescopes to observe the night sky. They track the positions
of celestial bodies, recording their discoveries in esoteric journals. At their best,
lunar nagas are wise and mysterious beings who seek to expand their knowledge of
the cosmos. At their worst, after too much exposure to the unfathomable entities
that dwell in the darkness between the stars, they become dark prophets who drive
others to commit terrible deeds in the name of abominable masters.
On Golarion, the lunar nagas of the nation of Nagajor use their abilities to
serve many communities as soothsayers. A few have founded observatories in
which they and their followers explore the night sky. Some nagas even use their
knowledge of the stars as navigators on ships or overland caravans. In the broader
world, where people do not give nagas deference as nearly divine rulers, lunar
nagas try to avoid contact with outsiders or use their magical powers of disguise
to hide their true forms from all but their most worthy allies.
LUNAR NAGA
CREATURE 6
UNCOMMON
N
LARGE
ABERRATION
Perception +16; darkvision
Languages Aklo, Celestial, Common
Skills Acrobatics +14, Astronomy Lore +11, Deception +15, Diplomacy +15, Nature +13,
Survival +14
Str +2, Dex +4, Con +4, Int +1, Wis +4, Cha +3
AC 24, Fort +15, Ref +16, Will +17
HP 100
Speed 25 feet
Melee Ȱɵ fangs +16 (agile, ﬁnesse), Damage 2d6+8 piercing
plus lunar naga venom
Primal Spontaneous Spells DC 24, attack +16; 3rd (4 slots) heal, lightning bolt, slow; 2nd
(4 slots) humanoid form, glitterdust, invisibility, web; 1st (4 slots) charm, ﬂeet step, heal,
spider sting; Cantrips (3rd) dancing lights, daze, detect magic, mage hand, read aura
Hypnosis ʚʖ (concentrate, enchantment, incapacitation,
mental, primal, visual) Frequency once per day;
Eﬀect The lunar naga twists the coils of their
serpentine body, causing the starlike motes on
their scales to shift and move as they glow
brighter, creating a mesmerizing swirl of light
and darkness. All creatures within a 30‑foot
emanation must succeed at a DC 21 Will save
or become fascinated until the end of the naga’s
next turn (on a critical failure, fascinated creatures
drop whatever items they are carrying as well). The lunar
naga can Sustain a Spell on Hypnosis. If the naga moves, aﬀected creatures are
compelled to remain within 30 feet of the naga and must spend each of its actions
moving closer to the naga as expediently as possible on its next turn. If a creature
is unable to end its turn within 30 feet of the naga, the eﬀect ends for that creature.
i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> F b 23 2023
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Feb 23, 2023
24868676
4425188
