i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> F b 23 2023
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Feb 23, 2023
24868794
4425306
Bestiary 2
296
296
OTHER WALKING VERMIN
While worms are the most common
type of creature to form the composite
body of a worm that walks, other
verminous variations are possible.
• Cockroaches: A worm that walks
made of cockroaches gains a +1 bonus
to AC and light blindness.
• Leeches: A worm that walks made of
leeches gains a swim Speed of 25 feet,
but its land Speed is 10 feet.
• Spiders: A worm that walks made
of spiders gains a climb Speed equal
to half its land Speed, and half the
damage from its Squirming Embrace
is poison damage.
Worm That Walks
When a powerful spellcaster with a strong personality, a lust for life, and a
remorselessly evil soul dies and is buried in a graveyard infused with eldritch
magic, a strange phenomenon can occur. The decaying body fattens and
instructs the very worms that feast upon it. These grave worms thrive not
only on the consumption of the spellcaster’s dead ﬂesh, but on their corrupt
memories and magical power. The spellcaster’s very soul is consumed in this
vile process, only to be split apart into fragments that inhabit each of the
individual worms. The result is a hideous hive mind of slithering life known
as a worm that walks—a mass of worms that clings to the vague shape of the
body that granted it this new existence and can use the powers and magic
the spellcaster had in life. A worm that walks retains memories of its life as a
spellcaster before its death, but it is not undead—it is a hideous new form of
undulant life.
CREATING A WORM THAT WALKS
You can turn an existing evil, living, spellcasting creature into a worm that
walks using the following steps.
Increase the creature’s level by 1 and change its statistics as follows.
•	 It gains the aberration and swarm traits and usually remains evil.
•	 Increase AC, attack bonuses, DCs, saving throws, and skill modiﬁers by 1.
•	 Reduce its Hit Points by the amount listed on the table (to a minimum of 2
HP per level).
•	 The worm that walks gains fast healing, resistance to physical damage, and
weakness to area damage and splash damage as indicated in the table. These
abilities are the reason the worm that walks has fewer HP.



Fast Healing,

Starting Level
HP Decrease
Resistance, and Weakness

4 or less
–20
5

5–7
–30
7

8–14
–40
10

15 or higher
–60
15
WORM THAt WALKS ABILItIES
A worm that walks loses any abilities that came from its previous physical form
and any traits that represent its life, such as human and humanoid. It retains
any spellcasting abilities it had in life, regardless of their origin, and gains the
abilities listed below. You might need to adjust other abilities that conﬂict with the
monster’s new theme as a worm that walks.
Darkvision
Tremorsense 30 feet (imprecise)
Immunities All worms that walk have immunity to disease, paralyzed, poison, precision,
and unconscious. They also have the swarm mind ability, which makes them immune
to mental eﬀects that target a speciﬁc number of creatures, though they are still
subject to mental eﬀects that aﬀect all creatures in an area.
All-Around Vision
Discorporate When the worm that walks is reduced to 0 HP, it discorporates and the
component worms that make up its body disperse in every direction. If even a single
worm escapes, the worm that walks will eventually re-form using a process that
typically takes 1d10 days.
While the exact circumstances and surroundings determine how long the worm
that walks’s foes have to dispatch the ﬂeeing worms before they escape, usually its
foes have only a single round. Typically, this requires the application of an area eﬀect
or splash weapon within 1 round to the space where the worm that walks collapsed.
After any amount of area or splash damage is dealt to that space, the character dealing
the damage must attempt a DC 15 ﬂat check. Each subsequent area or splash damage
i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> F b 23 2023
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Feb 23, 2023
24868794
4425306
