i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> F b 23 2023
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Feb 23, 2023
24868686
4425198
Bestiary 2
188
188
ONI ORIGINS
The ﬁrst oni originated in the nation
of Minkai on the continent of Tian Xia.
Whether due to prevalent local kami—
particularly in the mist-shrouded
Forest of Spirits—or its peoples’ faiths,
Minkai is a hotbed of oni activity.
Oni
Not all divine creations are meant to live as mortals. Some spirits are created as
guardians instead, tasked as protectors of elements of nature that cannot protect
themselves. When these spirits accept their divine place in the metacosmos and take
on such charges, they become kami. But some of these spirits are willful, obstinate,
or simply rotten, railing against such demands from the gods and becoming bodiless
and unable to interact with the world they can torturously still observe. Others
receive such punishment simply for failing at their duty, and their despair at their
condition twists them like those that began with a seed of darkness. When these
spirits look upon mortal lives and become overcome with envy of the ﬂesh and
pleasure that humanoids can revel in, they form surrogate bodies of their own and
become monsters known collectively as oni.
When an oni manifests, they always do so in a form that parodies a speciﬁc
humanoid ancestry closely associated with the oni’s obsessions and envies.
Giants’ over-the-top personalities and sizes are likely the reason why these
humanoids are the most common incarnations chosen by oni; such oni
are known collectively as yai oni. Yet there exist oni
associated with almost every kind of humanoid.
Most oni are capable of supernaturally disguising
themselves as their associated humanoid type and use
this ability to inﬁltrate societies and seize control
from within. Once established, oni typically reveal
their true form and revel in dominating those they
view as lesser beings ﬁt only to serve their whims.
Oni are nothing if not vain. They typically
choose comely or striking appearances in their
humanoid disguises—forms that are completely
at odds with the ugliness of their true natures. An
oni’s true form is indicative of their innermost
desires and always has features such as oversized
teeth that verge into tusks, sharp claws, unusually
bright skin colors, or a third eye in the forehead. Oni
have desires as varied as those of any being, though
by their nature these desires are almost always for
hedonistic or destructive experiences of the ﬂesh,
typically food, pleasure, or violence.
ONIDOSHI
Onidoshi, or ogre mages, are oni with
the material form of an ogre. Onidoshi’s
supernatural prowess and overwhelming intellect
are enough to awe and cow entire families of
rank-and-ﬁle ogres. Because of this, onidoshi are
often found at the head of ogre war parties or
orchestrating these violent campaigns from behind
the scenes. It’s rare for onidoshi to lead solitary
existences, but those who do prefer to maraud the
countryside or exploit villages and hoard the spoils
for themselves.
ONIDOSHI
CREATURE 8
LE
LARGE
FIEND
GIANT
HUMANOID
ONI
Perception +17; darkvision
Languages Common, Jotun
Skills Acrobatics +15, Arcana +13, Athletics +16, Deception +18,
Intimidation +18, Nature +17
Str +6, Dex +3, Con +4, Int +3, Wis +3, Cha +4
i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> F b 23 2023
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Feb 23, 2023
24868686
4425198
