i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> F b 23 2023
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Feb 23, 2023
24868790
4425302
Bestiary 2
292
292
CAIRN WIGHT DIRGES
Unlike a typical wight, cairn wights
have an unusual aﬃnity for music.
The lyrics of their dirges often
contain a valuable bit of knowledge
or long-lost lore, possibly the
greatest treasure a cairn wight
guards. There are even brave souls
who seek out the creatures to listen
to their songs in hopes of ﬁnding
proﬁt from the dry, rasping words.
Wight, Cairn
Jealous guardians of tombs, barrows, and sepulchers, cairn wights usually spawn
from necromantic rituals. For those mortals who cannot abide the thought
of separation from their earthly possessions, the undead existence offered
by transformation into a cairn wight can be tempting. Perhaps as frequently,
particularly avaricious and wealthy royalty or merchants seek out victims to
transform into cairn wights to guard their precious wealth for all time.
Only in the rarest instances is the greed of a mortal strong enough to
spontaneously transform them into a cairn wight without a dark ritual or the
intercession of a powerful divine being. On those occasions, however, the resultant
wight exhibits unmatched viciousness and likely owns rare treasure indeed.
As guardians of material possessions, cairn wights are supernaturally bound to
the armaments they wore during the ritual used to create them. They can spread
their necromantic powers into the weapons they wield. A slash from a cairn
wight’s sword channels life from the victim into the wight.
CAIRN WIGHT
CREATURE 4
UNCOMMON
LE
MEDIUM
UNDEAD
WIGHT
Perception +11; darkvision
Languages Common, Necril
Skills Athletics +12, Intimidation +11, Religion +9, Stealth +12
Str +4, Dex +2, Con +4, Int +1, Wis +3, Cha +3
Items longsword, studded leather armor
AC 20; Fort +12, Ref +10,
Will +11
HP
67;
negative
healing;
Immunities death eﬀects, disease,
paralyze, poison, unconscious
Final Spite Ǻȓ Trigger The cairn wight is
reduced to 0 Hit Points; Eﬀect The cairn wight
makes a Strike before being destroyed. It doesn’t
gain any temporary HP from drain life on this Strike.
Speed 25 feet
Melee Ȱɵ longsword +14 (versatile P), Damage 1d8+7 slashing plus
drain life
Melee Ȱɵ claw +14 (agile), Damage 1d6+7 slashing plus drain life
Cairn Wight Spawn (divine, necromancy) A living humanoid slain by a cairn
wight’s weapon or claw Strike rises as a spawned wight after 1d4 rounds.
This spawned wight is under the command of the cairn wight that killed it.
It doesn’t have drain life or cairn wight spawn and is clumsy 2 for as long as it is
a spawned wight. If its creator dies, the spawned wight becomes a full-ﬂedged,
autonomous cairn wight; it regains its free will, gains drain life and cairn wight
spawn, and is no longer clumsy.
Drain Life (divine, necromancy) When the cairn wight damages a living creature with
a melee Strike, using an unarmed attack or its bound weapon, the cairn wight gains
5 temporary Hit Points and the creature must succeed at a DC 18 Fortitude save or
become drained 1. Further damage dealt by the cairn wraith increases the drained
condition value by 1 on a failed save, to a maximum of drained 4.
Funereal Dirge ʚʖ (auditory, divine, emotion, fear, mental, necromancy) The cairn
wight chants a low, haunting melody. Living creatures within 50 feet must
attempt a DC 21 Will save. The cairn wight can’t chant a new Funereal Dirge
for 1d4 rounds.
Critical Success The creature is unaﬀected.
Success The creature is frightened 1.
Failure The creature is frightened 2.
Critical Failure The creature is frightened 2 and takes a –2 status
penalty to saving throws against drain life.
i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> F b 23 2023
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Feb 23, 2023
24868790
4425302
