i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> F b 23 2023
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Feb 23, 2023
24868754
4425266
Bestiary 2
256
256
OTHER TATZLWYRMS
People in some regions claim to have
seen creatures that are just like
tatzlwyrms in most respects—a long
body, two arms, and a head—except
that they have traits that are not
of reptilian origin. Travelers on a
savanna should beware a furry,
lion-headed tatzlwyrm protecting its
cubs, while those in the mountains
might be attacked by a feathered
(but wingless) variant with the head
of an eagle.
Tatzlwyrm
Tatzlwyrms resemble human-sized snakes with two arms and a dragon’s head.
Distant relatives of true dragons, tatzlwyrms possess only a meager level of
intelligence. They can speak Draconic (with a thick, hissing accent), but their
ability to reason is limited and they can’t use magic. They do possess a level of
cunning, however, and some have been known to build rudimentary traps and
even lairs. They are not treasure-hoarders, though, so don’t expect to ﬁnd a
tatzlwyrm sitting atop a bed of coins.
Some tatzlwyrms have managed to forge working relationships with dragons,
though it’s a rare occurrence. From time to time, dragons have used them as
messengers (because they can speak their language, however crudely), scouts (due
to their smaller size), guides (when they’re familiar with a particular mountain),
and even muscle (harassing foes not worthy of a dragon’s direct attention).
Tatzlwyrms don’t work with kobolds, though—tatzlwyrms eat kobolds.
Tatzlwyrms hibernate in cold weather, and when they feel winter approaching they
seek out underground lairs, mountain crevices, or even hay lofts. On one notable
occasion, townsfolk reported being brieﬂy overrun by tatzlwyrms after a conﬂict
between spellcasters in the nearby hills caused a sudden blizzard. Local scholars still
debate whether the cause of the inﬂux was the sudden change in weather or if the
creatures were drawn to one of the other magic users staying in town who were part
of the same pilgrimage as those doing battle.
When confronted, tatzlwyrms are more likely to attack than retreat. Indeed,
they sometimes lie in wait on purpose, taking advantage of their scales’ natural
camouﬂage and awaiting the chance to unleash their signature move: belching
poisonous vapor into an opponent’s face. Since this breath attack doesn’t have
much range, the wyrms usually need to grab their foes ﬁrst and bring them close
to their mouth.
TATZLWYRM
CREATURE 2
N
MEDIUM
DRAGON
Perception +8; darkvision
Languages Draconic
Skills Acrobatics +7, Athletics +8, Crafting +4, Intimidation +6, Stealth
+7
Str +4, Dex +1, Con +3, Int –3, Wis +2, Cha +0
Natural Camouﬂage A tatzlwyrm’s green, gray, and brown scales provide
it natural camouﬂage. In areas of dense undergrowth, a tatzlwyrm can
move at its full Speed when Sneaking, and it gains a +4 circumstance
bonus to Hide.
AC 18; Fort +11, Ref +5, Will +8
HP 30; Immunities paralyzed, sleep
Speed 30 feet, climb 30 feet
Melee Ȱɵ jaws +10 (magical), Damage 1d8+6 piercing
Melee Ȱɵ claw +10 (agile, magical), Damage 1d6+6 slashing
Poison Gasp Ȱɵ The tatzlwyrm belches a puﬀ of poisonous vapor into the face of an
adjacent creature, which must attempt a DC 15 Fortitude save; the creature
takes a –2 circumstance penalty to this save if it’s grabbed or
ﬂat-footed. The tatzlwyrm can’t use Poison Gasp again for
2 rounds.
Critical Success The target is unaﬀected.
Success The target is sickened 1.
Failure The target takes 2d6 poison
damage and is enfeebled 1 for
1 round.
Critical Failure The target takes
4d6 poison damage and is
enfeebled 1 for 1 minute.
i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> F b 23 2023
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Feb 23, 2023
24868754
4425266
