i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> F b 23 2023
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Feb 23, 2023
24868695
4425207
O-R
O-R
197
197
Introduction
A-C
D
E-G
H-K
L-N
O-R
S-T
U-Z
Appendix
PERYTON FLOCKS
On rare occasions, a peryton ﬂock
forms at the lead of an alpha female. It
lasts until the alpha makes a mistake
that erodes her perceived power. Then
the rest of the ﬂock tears her apart.
Peryton
The peryton is an amalgam of horror, merging the features of a stag, wolf, and
hawk. They love using shadows to stalk their victims before ripping out their still-
beating hearts and relishing the dying pulse as they swallow them whole, so the
doomed victims spends their last moments watching as their ﬂesh is consumed.
Despite perytons’ animalistic appearance and brutal behavior, they are viciously
cunning and as intelligent as humans. Their preferred tactic is to ﬁnd a lone
traveler and stalk it from on high. Most perytons are loners who loathe all other
creatures. These feelings extend to other perytons as well, and adult
males attack each other on sight as surely as they attack anything else.
Once per year, perytons mate. The males offer up hearts they have
collected from humanoids to attract females. Those that manage to
secure a mate rarely survive long though, as their mating
ritual is short and violent. Female perytons generally
abandon their eggs after laying them, so newly hatched
perytons must fend for themselves from the moment
they emerge.
A lone peryton typically builds a nest in a rocky
overhang or an exceptionally tall and strong tree
where they can observe nearby lands. Although they
aren’t particularly interested in wealth, perytons do
like to collect small objects from their victims. During
those times between hunts, they sometimes study these
trophies in order to relive the memories of victims’ last
moments and the taste of victims’ hearts.
PERYTON
CREATURE 4
CE
MEDIUM
BEAST
Perception +13; darkvision
Languages Common
Skills Acrobatics +11, Intimidation +11, Stealth +11
Str +4, Dex +3, Con +2, Int +0, Wis +5, Cha +3
AC 21; Fort +8, Ref +11, Will +13
HP 60
Speed 25 feet, ﬂy 50 feet
Melee Ȱɵ antler +14 (deadly d8), Damage 1d12+7 piercing
Melee Ȱɵ fangs +14 (agile), Damage 1d8+7 slashing
Heart Ripper Ȱɵ (attack, emotion, fear, visual) The peryton
rips out the heart of an adjacent corpse with their jaws.
The creature must have died in the last minute. As the
peryton rips the heart free and swallows it whole,
they regain 2d6 HP, and any non-peryton that
witnesses this event must succeed at a DC 21 Will
save or become frightened 1 (or frightened 2 on
a critical failure).
Mimic Shadow Ȱɵ (necromancy, occult, shadow)
Requirements The target must be casting a
shadow; Eﬀect The peryton Flies, going no
higher than 20 feet over the target creature. The target creature must succeed
at a DC 21 Will save or the peryton’s shadow changes to match that cast by the
target creature. With their shadow so transformed, the peryton gains a +2 status
bonus to attack and damage rolls against that creature. In addition, each time
the peryton successfully Strikes that creature, the creature must succeed at a DC
21 Will save or become frightened 1, or increase its frightened condition by 1 if
it’s already frightened. This is an emotion and fear eﬀect. The shadow remains
transformed for 1 hour or until the peryton Mimics a Shadow again, whichever
comes ﬁrst.
i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> F b 23 2023
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Feb 23, 2023
24868695
4425207
