i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> F b 23 2023
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Feb 23, 2023
24868635
4425147
E-G
E-G
137
137
Introduction
A-C
D
E-G
H-K
L-N
O-R
S-T
U-Z
Appendix
GRIMSTALKER FORESTRY
Grimstalkers often harvest the seeds
of carnivorous plants, particularly
assassin vines, which they sow
during their wanderings. Typically
they seed their territory’s borders
with these dangerous plants as a
defense tactic, but they also sow
gardens and ﬁelds, weaponizing
these plots of land against hapless
gardeners and farmers.
Grimstalker
These violently murderous fey have one purpose: to stealthily hunt down and
slay humanoids brazen enough to dare set foot in the wilderness. Though they
prefer to hunt from the shadows, grimstalkers do not fear taking their grisly work
to the very edges of civilization. This boldness serves as a reminder that nature
can be cruel, capricious, and owes no debt to humanity. Grimstalkers are happy
to perform nature’s dirty work and particularly enjoy targeting loggers, hunters,
and explorers, regardless of whether they respect the natural setting they work or
travel within.
Grimstalkers are gaunt and hairless, and their mottled, green and brown ﬂesh
gives them the appearance of moss-draped bark. When damaged, they bleed a
thick, sap-like blood. They mark their territories by lopping off the heads of
their victims and stringing them up in the surrounding trees, a practice that
often lures dangerous scavengers into their lands. Carnivorous and thorny
plants are often found in wilds where grimstalkers dwell, ﬁlling roles that
pets might in human society, though grimstalkers tend to treat these “pets”
poorly at best.
There are few accounts of grimstalkers working with other fey—for the
most part, grimstalkers see their kin from the First World as cowards or
weaklings, or perhaps both. Even notoriously violent fey such as redcaps
shy from them, as grimstalkers consider their own kind the only company
worth keeping.
Grimstalkers hunt in small bands, using stealth to approach their targets.
They surround enemies ﬁrst, then work to unnerve them by knocking on
trees or howling out threats in Aklo to distract and panic their quarry.
Of course, a band of grimstalkers won’t stay together for long, quickly
succumbing to bickering and inﬁghting. These violent arguments
are common pastimes among grimstalkers, often ending with each
grimstalker going its own way. Not even the presence of more
powerful fey or commanding creatures can keep grimstalkers
from their predisposed bickering. Some scholars theorize that
this quality speaks to an ancient curse that once afﬂicted fey
who were judged too cantankerous, but in truth, it’s just
part of what makes a grimstalker what it is: ill-tempered,
confrontational, and bitter.
GRIMSTALKER
CREATURE 5
CE
MEDIUM
FEY
Perception +12; low-light vision
Languages Aklo, Common
Skills Acrobatics +13, Intimidation +13, Nature +11,
Stealth +13, Survival +12
Str +4, Dex +4, Con +2, Int +2, Wis +3, Cha +2
Camouflage A grimstalker can Hide in natural environments, even if it doesn’t
have cover.
AC 22; Fort +9, Ref +15, Will +12
HP 60; Weaknesses cold iron 5
Speed 40 feet, climb 20 feet; woodland stride
Melee Ȱɵ claw +15 (agile), Damage 2d6+7 slashing plus grimstalker sap
Primal Innate Spells DC 22, attack +14; 3rd earthbind, wall of thorns; 2nd entangle, pass
without trace, tree shape; Cantrips (3rd) tanglefoot
Grimstalker Sap (poison); Saving Throw DC 22 Fortitude; Maximum Duration 6 rounds;
Stage 1 1d6 poison damage (1 round); Stage 2 1d6 poison damage and clumsy 1
(1 round), Stage 3 2d6 poison damage and clumsy 2 (1 round)
Woodland Stride A grimstalker can always ﬁnd a path, almost as if foliage parts before
it. A grimstalker ignores diﬃcult terrain caused by plants, such as bushes, vines, and
undergrowth. Even plants manipulated by magic don’t impede its progress.
i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> F b 23 2023
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Feb 23, 2023
24868635
4425147
