i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> F b 23 2023
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Feb 23, 2023
24868615
4425127
E-G
E-G
117
117
Introduction
A-C
D
E-G
H-K
L-N
O-R
S-T
U-Z
Appendix
MASTERS OF ADAPTATION
Kayals understand that many
Material Plane cultures view them
with suspicion or even fear, and
take pains to adapt to cultures with
which they seek to establish trade.
Unfortunately, kayals’ mastery
at cultural adaptation can often
backﬁre, leading to fears that the
so-called “fetchlings” are an invading
force that seeks to duplicate and
replace those with whom they
merely wish to do business.
Fetchling
The people known today as fetchlings are a distinct ancestry descended from
generations of humans who became trapped ages ago on the Shadow Plane. No longer
human at all, these people, who call themselves kayals, have become monochromatic
in coloration, with ﬂesh tones and hair colors varying between white, black, and all
shades of gray. Their limbs are lithe and willowy, and their eyes are generally solid
yellow, yellow-green, or white, though a rare few have a purple or blue glow.
Fetchlings have developed their own complex societies in the Shadow Plane,
often under the tolerance of or in servitude to the strange, malignant creatures
there, such as the sinister velstracs or the enigmatic d’ziriaks. While individual
fetchlings can be any alignment, they are all survivors in a harsh environment,
which leads to a tendency toward pragmatism. Fetchling clothing mimics the
regions they dwell in, with drab colors tending toward darker shades. When they
trade with humans or other societies on the Material Plane, they often wear masks
or concealing clothing to hide their appearance.
Typical fetchling communities are insular and swiftly close ranks in the
event of an intruder. Though individual fetchlings don’t mind traveling to and
blending in with other societies to facilitate trade, they often hide or even react
defensively if they have their own visitors. When one considers the nature of
the other denizens of the Shadow Plane, however, this tendency to assume the
worst of interlopers might make sense to some.
Fetchlings are not as common on the Material Plane;
most of those who dwell there are loners by choice who
have left their home to seek out adventure elsewhere,
exiles who were banished from their homelands,
or planar castaways with no ability to return to the
Shadow Plane. This last category, the lost and stranded,
are the most likely to be found in larger groups. In cities
of signiﬁcant size, one can sometimes even ﬁnd a small community of
a few dozen or more fetchlings living among humans, although they often do so
subtly by dyeing their hair, wearing brightly colored clothing, and utilizing
layers of makeup to hide their pallid complexions.
FETCHLING SCOUT
CREATURE 1
N
MEDIUM
FETCHLING
HUMANOID
SHADOW
Perception +5; darkvision
Languages Common, Shadowtongue
Skills Acrobatics +7, Athletics +4, Deception +5, Diplomacy +5, Society +3, Stealth +7,
Thievery +7
Str +1, Dex +4, Con +2, Int +0, Wis +0, Cha +2
Items chain shirt, dagger
AC 18; Fort +5, Ref +9, Will +5
HP 18
Shadow Blending When the fetchling scout is concealed as a result of dim
light, the ﬂat check to target them has a DC of 7, not 5.
Speed 25 feet
Melee Ȱɵ dagger +9 (agile, ﬁnesse, versatile S), Damage 1d4+1 piercing
Ranged Ȱɵ dagger +9 (agile, ﬁnesse, thrown 10 feet, versatile S), Damage 1d4+1
piercing
Occult Innate Spells DC 15; 1st illusory disguise
Shadow Stride Ȱɵ (illusion, occult, shadow) Requirement The fetchling is in dim
light; Eﬀect The fetchling Strides. They have a +10-foot status bonus to their
Speed during this Stride. The DC from shadow blending increases to 11 during
this Stride, and the fetchling remains concealed by dim light until the end of
the movement, even if they leave dim light during the Stride.
Sneak Attack The fetchling scout’s Strikes deal an additional 1d6
precision damage to ﬂat-footed creatures.
i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> F b 23 2023
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Feb 23, 2023
24868615
4425127
