i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> F b 23 2023
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Feb 23, 2023
24868787
4425299
U-Z
U-Z
289
289
Introduction
A-C
D
E-G
H-K
L-N
O-R
S-T
U-Z
Appendix
LOCAL ORMS
People who live by the lakes
inhabited by legendary water
orms have a tendency to give local
lake monsters names that sound
somewhat homey or even adorable.
As a result, such creatures are often
regarded as local mascots or good-
luck charms—particularly in lakeside
settlements that depend on ﬁshing
as a signiﬁcant income source.
Water Orm
Legendary creatures lurking in remote lakes, water orms always ﬁnd their way
into the tavern tales of lakeside communities. To some travelers, every lake of
respectable size seems to be surrounded by towns full of ﬁshers claiming to have
spotted a water orm. These elusive creatures inhabit lakes mainly in cool and
gloomy regions. Some claim that water orms are an offshoot of sea serpents and
linnorms, but no credible link between these creatures has been found.
Water orms have many features that sea serpents do not, such as the ability
to understand the rudiments of language. Their natural inclination to avoid
contact and remain hidden often remains at odds with their equally compelling
curiosity about those they might spy upon the shores of their lakes. Water orm
sightings usually occur when they can’t help but to rise up to the surface to take
a peek at someone (or something) particularly unusual on the beach or ﬂoating
on the water’s surface.
These creatures are extremely long-lived and can go for decades, or even
centuries, with very little to eat. This allows water orms to subsist in lakes
without surfacing for many years, even in bodies of fresh water
without ample food sources. Water orms might lie in a silty
lake bed for years, their elusiveness only contributing to
their mythical reputation. When a pet or child goes
missing near a lake, rumors might hold that the
local water orm is responsible, leading to
folk tales that caution residents against
venturing out alone near the water.
While
most
water
orms
are
described as serpentine or long-necked
reptiles, others look similar to bizarrely
elongated seals or whales, impossibly large sea
horses, or long-necked creatures with paddles resembling those of elasmosauruses.
WATER ORM
CREATURE 10
RARE
N
HUGE
AQUATIC
BEAST
WATER
Perception +21; darkvision
Languages Aquan (can’t speak any language)
Skills Athletics +22, Stealth +23
Str +8, Dex +5, Con +5, Int –3, Wis +5, Cha +0
Slow Metabolism A water orm can go for 10 years without
feeding. Beyond this limit, the water orm’s hunger causes it to
become slowed 1, but doesn’t otherwise impact its lifespan. A
water orm that’s slowed as a result of starvation can remove
this condition by using Swallow Whole to gulp down a meal.
Undetectable (abjuration, primal) A water orm automatically tries to
counteract any detection, revelation, or scrying divination attempted against it,
using its Stealth modiﬁer for the counteract check.
AC 30; Fort +21, Ref +19, Will +17
HP 170; Resistances cold 10, ﬁre 10
Speed 20 feet, swim 50 feet
Melee Ȱɵ jaws +24 (reach 15 feet), Damage 2d10+11 piercing plus Grab
Melee Ȱɵ tail +24 (agile, reach 15 feet), Damage 2d6+11 bludgeoning
Swallow Whole Ȱɵ (attack) Large, 2d8+8 bludgeoning, Rupture 22
Water Travel ̂ˬ (primal, transmutation, water) A water orm can dissolve into water,
appearing only as a long, dark, serpentine stretch of water. While in this form, a water
orm’s swim Speed increases to 600 feet, it automatically succeeds at Athletics checks
to swim, and it gains a +4 circumstance bonus to Stealth checks in water. A water
orm can remain in this form for 8 hours, but it can’t enter salt water when using this
ability. A water orm can return to its normal form using a single action which has the
concentrate trait.
i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> F b 23 2023
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Feb 23, 2023
24868787
4425299
