i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> F b 23 2023
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Feb 23, 2023
24868770
4425282
Bestiary 2
272
272
MINOS-PASHAT
The ﬁrst urdefhans were unleashed
into the depths of Golarion’s
Darklands in the vault of Minos-
Pashat, a nation-sized cavern riddled
with maze-like tangles of stalactites,
stalagmites, and ﬁssures.
Urdefhan
The violent warmongers, occultists, and poisoners known as urdefhans dwell
within the Darklands. They were created in eons past by the mysterious First
Horsemen of the Apocalypse to serve as agents of the end times within the
Material Plane. Urdefhans continue to honor their creators by worshipping the
wretched beings who rule over the plane of Abaddon, and like their ﬁendish lieges,
urdefhans exist for one reason and one reason alone: to kill.
While urdefhans are humanoid and dwell together in large groups, this is
where their similarities to surface ancestries end. Their visages are horriﬁc, with
transparent skin and musculature displaying their glistening entrails, gleaming
bones, and perhaps worst of all, their baleful red eyes. This, combined with
their gaping maws full of sharp fangs, works to create the false impression that
these beings are some sort of vampiric undead, not creatures of living ﬂesh and
blood. When an urdefhan’s life comes to an end, their ﬂesh quickly curdles and
then bursts in a wave of awful corruption that spreads to the ﬂesh of other
creatures in the area. The typical urdefhan views their eventual demise as a
disappointment, for once they’re dead, their chances to kill will
ﬁnally come to an end.
Urdefhans’ primary concern is death and how to inﬂict it
in the goriest, most painful, and widespread ways. Beyond
this ethos of violence, urdefhans concern themselves only
tangentially with matters such as formal modes of
warfare or aspects of their damnable religion. When
an urdefhan is not actively engaged in violence,
their giddy cruelty is tempered only by a sense
of self-preservation that ensures they survive
long enough to spread the “blessings” of their
daemonic patrons. They pass the time between wars inventing new
weapons, developing new diseases, and researching awful new magic,
all in preparation for the next inevitable conﬂict.
URDEFHAN WARRIOR
From the moment they are born, urdefhans are prepared for war. Urdefhan
warriors are among the least powerful urdefhans one might encounter outside of
their eerie underground cities.
URDEFHAN WARRIOR
CREATURE 3
NE
MEDIUM
HUMANOID
URDEFHAN
Perception +9; greater darkvision
Languages Aklo, Daemonic, Undercommon
Skills Athletics +10, Intimidation +9, Religion +7, Survival +7
Str +3, Dex +1, Con +2 Int +0, Wis +2, Cha +2
Items composite longbow (20 arrows), rhoka sword, studded leather
AC 18; Fort +9, Ref +8, Will +9
HP 55, negative healing; Immunities death eﬀects, disease, fear; Weaknesses positive 5
Necrotic Decay (divine, necromancy, negative) When an urdefhan dies, its invisible ﬂesh
quickly rots away and sublimates into a foul-smelling gas that ﬁlls a 5-foot emanation
around the body. This gas deals 3d6 negative damage to creatures in this area as their
ﬂesh curdles and rots as well (DC 17 basic Fortitude save).
Attack of Opportunity Ǻȓ
Speed 25 feet
Melee Ȱɵ rhoka sword +12 (deadly 1d8, two-hand 1d10), Damage 1d8+6 slashing
Melee Ȱɵ jaws +12, Damage 1d6+6 piercing plus Wicked Bite
Ranged Ȱɵ composite longbow +10 (deadly 1d10, propulsive, range increment 100 feet,
volley 30 feet), Damage 1d8+4 piercing
Divine Innate Spells DC 17, attack +9; 2nd death knell; 1st feather fall (at will, self only),
ray of enfeeblement
i
W
l Wi di
<Wi
ji
j dh
d@
il
> F b 23 2023
paizo.com, Wexel Winding <Wiggyjiggyjedhead@gmail.com>, Feb 23, 2023
24868770
4425282
