Introduction
Gears
Characters
Gears
Equipment
Guns
Characters
Guns
Equipment
The Rotating
Gear
Glossary
And Index
Guns &
GEARS
Ram [two-actions] Requirements The other members of the crew have
Readied to Stride on your order; Effect You and the crew
Stride, with a maximum distance equal to the slowest crew
member’s Speed, then make a melee Strike with the ram
against a structure or an unattended, stationary object. The
damage of this Strike is 5d8 + the highest Strength modifier
among members of the crew.
Type battering ram; Level 5; Price 160 gp
Type covered battering ram; Level 6; Price 250 gp
Though it has the same Ram activity as the basic battering
ram, a covered battering ram is additionally suspended from a
protective roof attached to large wheels. This gives the crew
members greater cover against attacks from outside. The cover
is on the left and right flank, but open on the front and rear
to allow for operating the ram. The roof has AC 23, Hardness
12, HP 48, and BT 24. Breaking the roof doesn’t affect the
operation of the battering ram but eliminates the cover.
CATAPULT
ITEM 7
UNCOMMON
LARGE
MOUNTED
Price 650 gp; Ammunition stones (0 gp, 4 Bulk)
Usage mounted; Space 10 feet long, 10 feet wide, 6 feet high
Crew 2 to 4; Proficiency martial
AC 20; Fort +15, Ref +8
Hardness 10; HP 60 (BT 30); Immunities object immunities
Speed 15 feet (pulled or pushed)
A sturdy wooden frame holds the spring-loaded beam that
gives this weapon its power. At the end of the beam, a
bowl-shaped wooden recession holds the payload, typically
heavy stones. The arm is winched back to create torsion, until
the release is pulled to abruptly swing the arm forward and
fling the payload.
Aim [two-actions] 50 feet, minimum distance 50 feet
Load [two-actions] (manipulate) 2 times, requires a successful DC 20
Athletics check
Launch [one-action] (attack, manipulate, range increment 150 feet)
5d10 bludgeoning, 10-foot burst, DC 22 Reflex
DOOR RAM
ITEM 2
UNCOMMON
SMALL
PORTABLE
Price 30 gp
Usage portable, held in 4 hands; Bulk 3
Crew 2; Proficiency simple
A door ram is a small siege weapon meant for
breaking down doors, palisades, and weak
portcullises. It consists of a log with an
iron cap, and has handholds carved into it
or grips attached to it.
Ram [two-actions] Requirements The other member
of the crew has Readied to Stride on your
order; Effect You and the other crew member
Stride, with a maximum distance equal to the slowest crew
member’s Speed, then make a melee Strike with the ram
against a structure or an unattended, stationary object. The
damage of this Strike is 2d8 + the highest Strength modifier
among members of the crew.
HEAVY BALLISTA
ITEM 8
UNCOMMON
HUGE
MOUNTED
Price 900 gp; Ammunition heavy ballista bolt (3 gp, 3 Bulk)
Usage mounted; Space 15 feet long, 12 feet wide, 12 feet high
Crew 3 to 6; Proficiency martial
AC 22; Fort +18, Ref +12
Hardness 15; HP 80 (BT 40); Immunities object immunities
Speed 15 feet (pulled or pushed)
Capable of launching bolts the size of fully grown trees, a
heavy ballista is best suited to smashing down castle gates,
walls, or similar fortifications.
Aim [two-actions] 60 feet, minimum distance 40 feet
Load [two-actions] (manipulate) 3 times, requires a successful DC 20
Athletics check
BUILDING SIEGE WEAPONS
Just like other items, building a siege weapon requires
using the Craft activity. However, due to the size, it
typically takes more than one person to prepare some of
the materials (such as felling tall trees and working them
to create a trebuchet arm) and assemble the weapon.
You typically need a number of workers equal to the
minimum crew size for the siege weapon to complete it
in the standard amount of time. It can take much longer
or even be impossible for a smaller team or individual.
Due to their specific uses, you might be able to use
Engineering Lore or Warfare Lore instead of the Crafting
skill when you Craft a siege weapon. The GM determines
whether you can—some strange or more complex engines
might not be constructible with Warfare Lore.
DISASSEMBLING AND REASSEMBLING
A mounted siege weapon without a Speed must be
disassembled to be moved, then reassembled in its new
location. The GM determines how long this takes, but it’s
typically 1 day or half a day of downtime to disassemble
a siege weapon and 1 to 2 days to rebuild it. As with
building a siege weapon, you need a larger crew to
disassemble or reassemble a siege weapon at full speed.
75
75
Battering Ram
