Introduction
Gears
Characters
Gears
Equipment
Guns
Characters
Guns
Equipment
The Rotating
Gear
Glossary
And Index
Guns &
GEARS
goblins would master their new black powder weaponry.
No amount of negotiation could convince the goblins to
reveal how they replace their supply of gunpowder, but
the shieldmarshal report notes craters throughout the
camp, suggesting experimentation.
Not all firearm wielders beyond Alkenstar’s walls,
nor within them, are the nefarious sort. Many
shieldmarshals are infuriated by the corruption of some
of their peers and work doubly hard to improve the
organization’s reputation within the city while keeping
a watchful eye open for actionable proof to bring their
corrupt counterparts to justice. Retired guards and
shieldmarshals often choose to purchase their service
weapons once their tour of duty is complete, using the
weapon to earn a new life for themselves beyond what a
10-year pension can afford. Dobra Brak (N male half-orc
shieldmarshal) and his partner Betta Blunak (LN female
dwarf sniper) run a small adventuring company of such
retirees, escorting merchants through the Mana Wastes.
Innovators in a New Age
All of the skill and proliferation of Alkenstar’s
mechanisms would be irrelevant without the genius
of the inventors who create them. The City of Smog
attracts the finest engineering minds in the Inner Sea, as
well as adventurers looking to hone their craft among
the symphony of clicking gears and drumming pistons.
Craftworks devoted to clockwork items, alchemical
solutions, and even prosthetic limbs ready for fitting line
the gilded streets of the Auburn District. The clockwork
guardians known as Brass Guardians stand at each
street corner, the methodical tick of their systems a quiet
reminder of Alkenstar’s technological progress.
The Greaseblood Infirmary, despite the unpleasant
name, is a building where the unfortunate flock. Founded
by Adrick Slatejoint (NG male dwarf physician)
and Tonra Slatejoint (CG male dwarf engineer), the
Infirmary is the foremost developer of prosthetic limbs in
Alkenstar. Husbands from Dongun Hold, the Slatejoints
use a dual solution of alchemy and clockwork to treat
patients, healing those sickened from the fumes of the
city’s thousands of chimneys and replacing appendages
lost in factory accidents. Though the expense of the
treatments can be high, patients pay only what they can
afford. Tonra comes from old dwarven aristocracy and
is always prepared to use his family fortune to cover any
losses the Infirmary incurs, though the high quality of
the facility’s prosthetics makes it a preferred vendor for
the aristocracy, and it’s incredibly rare for the Infirmary’s
operating budget to exceed its income.
While Alkenstar has no shortage of clockwork
engineers, none have the prestige or funding of
Professor Radpol (LN male gnome inventor). The
scientist came to Alkenstar decades ago, focusing on
the study of clockwork automatons as a way to stave
off the Bleaching. Though none of his designs ever
reached open market, he garnered the attention of
Grand Duchess Ricia, who has since financed his work
exclusively. Ten years of silence have passed from the
professor since the unveiling of the Black Ephemeron,
a massive creation of ebony steel that stands over the
raised bailey of Alkenstar Castle in a taciturn watch. No
one can deny the imposing presence of the construct, yet
few have ever witnessed it move, leading to accusations
that its functionality is merely an illusion. As Professor
Radpol makes no public appearances nor publishes any
academic papers, he has not yet refuted this claim.
With the lack of grain and other produce available
in Alkenstar, horses have proven to be a difficult
commodity to provide for, even among the wealthy of
the city’s elite. Racing has become a prestigious sport,
with room for alternative solutions to feeding the
athletic steeds. Capitalizing on this demand, Jamiria
Bronzehoof (N nonbinary halfling inventor) cornered
the market on clockwork horseracing, lobbying an
evolution of the sport revolving around the optimization
of artificial steeds. Jockeys require a different set of skills
than mundane horse racers, birthing a separate pool of
athletes than those who compete in other regions of the
Inner Sea. The optimization of clockwork mounts, as
well as the talented riders that can manipulate them, has
become an obsession in some circles of the elite. Riders
with a knack for piloting artificial steeds have quickly
become a commodity in the City of Smog, allowing
for well-to-do patrons to fund contesting teams in the
lucrative racing cups that serve as entertainment for rich
and poor spectators alike.
A HELPING HAND
With the presence of black powder weapons, deadly
mutants, and the occasional insurgent attack, serious
injuries in Alkenstar are far more common than the
magic capable of repairing them. Both Dongun Hold and
Alkenstar hold their veterans in high regard, and as a
result, the government supplies veterans wounded in the
line of duty with quality prostheses.
Though
Dongun
Hold’s
dwarves
have
had
well-developed prostheses since long before the advent
of Alkenstar, many veterans still struggled with mobility,
arthritis, and other pains brought on by their injuries.
In recent years, the human shieldmarshals recovering
from the loss of a limb have developed various forms of
physical therapy and targeted calisthenics, and they’ve
shared these practices with their dwarven allies. It is
now fairly common to see mixed groups of human and
dwarven veterans stretching and exercising together
near the city perimeter ahead of a daily run or other
activity. Younger guards who join these groups as soon
as they begin their recovery from a traumatic injury
sometimes even find themselves able to return to full
duty within a few short months.
199
199
