GADGETS
Gadgets are consumable technological inventions with
innovative uses. Gadgets take a variety of forms, some
handheld, others worn, and they often take a while to
put on or take off. Depending on their forms, gadgets
also have a variety of different effects. Due to the use of
technology, all gadgets are uncommon or rare, though
inventors and regions with access to inventors have
access to uncommon gadgets.
Gadgets are particularly important to inventors,
some of whom learn tricks and techniques to create a
number of temporary gadgets each day from spare parts
without needing to spend additional time and money
on the project. This, in turn, leads those inventors to be
particularly profligate in the use of gadgets, which leads
to an even stronger association between the two.
Gadgets are not, however, exclusive to inventors. In
truth, anyone can make a gadget if they have the time,
money, skill, and knowledge of how to do so. This
sometimes leads others to misidentify a particularly
technologically-savvy investigator or wizard using
gadgets as an inventor.
ABLATIVE ARMOR PLATING
ITEM 1+
UNCOMMON
CONSUMABLE
GADGET
Usage attached to armor or traveler’s clothing; Bulk 1
Ablative armor plating is additional plating, combined with
springs, clever clockwork, and improvised padding, to absorb
damage by knocking the additional pieces free. The pieces
slowly come apart on their own with time and movement.
The process of attaching the plating takes 10 minutes and
grants the wearer of the armor the listed temporary Hit
Points for the stated duration or until lost. Removing the
plating early destroys it.
Type lesser; Level 1; Price 4 gp
The wearer gains 5 temporary Hit Points that last for 1
minute or until lost.
Type moderate; Level 3; Price 12 gp
The wearer gains 10 temporary Hit Points that last for 10
minutes or until lost.
Type greater; Level 7; Price 70 gp
The wearer gains 20 temporary Hit Points that last for 1 hour
or until lost.
Type major; Level 13; Price 600 gp
66
66
