SAMPLE INVENTOR
ARMOR INVENTOR
You’ve created an experimental
armor that protects you while you
go toe to toe with foes.
ABILITY SCORES
Prioritize Strength for melee
combat and Intelligence for your
inventor abilities.
SKILLS
Arcana, Athletics, Crafting,
Medicine, Occultism, Society
INNOVATION
Armor
FEATS
Tamper (1st), Collapse Armor
(2nd), Megaton Strike (4th),
Clockwork Celerity (6th), Gigaton
Strike (8th), Electrify Armor (10th)
critical success on your Crafting check, you can opt to both create the formula and
reassemble the original item at the same time, leaving you with the formula and
the item instead of the formula and raw materials equal to half the item’s value.
Furthermore, you can use Crafting instead of Thievery to Disable a Device or Pick
a Lock.
SEARING RESTORATION [one-action]
FEAT 2
FIRE
HEALING
INVENTOR
MANIPULATE
UNSTABLE
They told you there was no way that explosions could heal people, but they were fools…
Fools who didn’t understand your brilliance! You create a minor explosion from your
innovation, altering the combustion to cauterize wounds using vaporized medicinal
herbs. You or a living creature adjacent to you regains 1d10 Hit Points. In addition, the
creature you heal can attempt an immediate flat check to recover from a single source
of persistent bleed damage, with the DC reduction from appropriate assistance.
At 3rd level, and every 2 levels thereafter, increase the healing by 1d10.
Special If your innovation is a minion, it can take this action rather than you,
though because it’s not a living creature, it can’t use the ability on itself.
4TH LEVEL
ADVANCED CONSTRUCT COMPANION
FEAT 4
INVENTOR
Prerequisites construct companion
You’ve upgraded your construct companion’s power and decision-making ability. It
becomes an advanced construct companion (page 33). During an encounter, even if
you don’t use the Command a Minion action, your construct companion can still use
1 action on your turn that round to Stride or Strike.
DIVING ARMOR
FEAT 4
INVENTOR
MODIFICATION
Prerequisites armor innovation
You’ve modified your armor with fins, rotors, and other devices to make it easy
for you to move through the water, plus mechanical gills that can help you
extract breathable air from water. While wearing your armor innovation, you can
breathe underwater and gain a swim Speed equal to your land Speed.
DUAL-FORM WEAPON
FEAT 4
INVENTOR
MODIFICATION
Prerequisites weapon innovation
You’ve built your innovation with replaceable interlocking pieces that you can use to
transform it into another type of weapon entirely. When you select this feat, choose
a level 0 or 1st-level simple or martial weapon. It must be either a common weapon
or another to which you have access. This weapon becomes your innovation’s second
configuration.
Select a new set of weapon modifications for this new configuration. You can
spend two Interact actions to switch your weapon innovation between the two
configurations. These actions don’t need to be taken consecutively, but if you’ve
provided the first and not the second, the weapon is non-functional as it is
stranded between states. Your weapon’s Bulk is always the greater Bulk of the two
configurations, regardless of which configuration it’s in—if one weapon is smaller
than the other, you still need to keep any weapon parts on hand. Any runes on your
weapon innovation don’t affect the second weapon configuration.
GADGET SPECIALIST
FEAT 4
INVENTOR
Prerequisites expert in Crafting
26
26
