Introduction
Gears
Characters
Gears
Equipment
Guns
Characters
Guns
Equipment
The Rotating
Gear
Glossary
And Index
Guns &
GEARS
Patriotic to the extreme, this +2 flaming greater striking
flintlock musket was among the first firearms forged in the
Gunworks and was wielded by Ancil Alkenstar, founder of
the Grand Duchy of Alkenstar. In Alkenstar’s hands, the
musket was used to defend the burgeoning Grand Duchy
from outside threats, including mutants of the Mana Wastes,
Nexian constructs, and undead from Geb. After Ancil’s
death, the weapon was passed down, per his own decree,
not to his heirs but to the greatest defender of Alkenstar,
as determined by the weapon’s previous owner. Over time,
the devotion and heroism of each successive wielder left a
psychic imprint on the weapon, until it developed an intellect
and drive of its own.
A duchy defender is a powerful weapon with a rigid
personality. It follows the laws of Alkenstar to the letter,
and fights in defense of its nation. If these two priorities
ever clash, a duchy defender prioritizes the protection
of Alkenstar and its citizens over following the laws
themselves, since laws can change, but the people will
always need protecting.
 If you break the laws of Alkenstar, a duchy
defender goes out of its way to call attention to you
at inopportune times, such as when you’re engaged
in an illegal activity, and attempts to see you pay
for your crimes, up to and including outing you
to law enforcement and providing testimony
against you in court. If a duchy defender is used
unjustly against a citizen of Alkenstar, the weapon
automatically misfires.
If the weapon is removed from the Grand
Duchy of Alkenstar without a reason that directly
benefits the duchy, the duchy defender transports itself
away, reappearing in the hands of a previous worthy owner,
or elsewhere in Alkenstar if no such previous owner lives.
In the hands of a worthy owner, a duchy defender is
nearly impossible to steal, since it transports
itself back to you at the first opportunity
after someone takes it, and it grants you a
+2 circumstance bonus to their Reflex DC
to resist being disarmed of it.
Activate [two-actions] command; Frequency
once per round; Effect The duchy
defender focuses its will on a single
target it can see and who it knows is guilty of committing
a crime within Alkenstar’s borders. The next time the
duchy defender damages this target, it deals an additional
2d8 precision damage.
Activate
[three-actions]
command
(conjuration,
magical,
teleportation); Effect The duchy defender travels
through the air at a speed faster than light, returning
to the hands of a previous owner who has been deemed
worthy. If the owner’s hands are full, the duchy defender
instead appears on the ground in their space. If there
is no previous owner the duchy defender deems worthy
that lives, it instead travels to a random public location
within Alkenstar. Traveling to an unknown location
is draining; after doing so, the duchy defender can’t
transport itself anywhere for 1d4 days.
SUNKEN PISTOL
ITEM 8
RARE
CN
ARCANE
ENCHANTMENT
INTELLIGENT
Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk 1
Perception +12; precise vision 30 feet, imprecise hearing
30 feet
Communication speech (Common)
Skills Intimidation +19, Navigation Lore +14, Sailing Lore +14
Int +0, Wis +2, Cha +4
Will +16
163
163
 Integrated Firearms
