Introduction
Gears
Characters
Gears
Equipment
Guns
Characters
Guns
Equipment
The Rotating
Gear
Glossary
And Index
Guns &
GEARS
Guns and the people who use them remain uncommon
in the world of Golarion, as the technology required to
produce firearms and black powder is limited to a few
technological strongholds scattered across the globe.
Despite their rarity, or perhaps because of it, firearms
leave a lasting impression on those who witness their
destructive power and startling impact. Residents of
the Inner Sea from outside of the Impossible Lands
who behold a gunslinger or other wielder of firearms in
action might undertake a pilgrimage to Alkenstar and
attempt to negotiate with the Alkenstar Gunworks in
order to obtain one of these unusual but potent weapons
for themselves.
Even people who never see or obtain a firearm might
have a compelling reason to take these options, however.
Crossbows are vastly more common than firearms but
serve a similar purpose and can be put to many of
the same uses. An artillerist leading a cannon team in
Alkenstar might have a counterpart in Taldor who uses
similar abilities with catapults. The sniping duos who use
their arquebuses to guard the walls of Alkenstar from
monsters in the Mana Wastes are not terribly different
than the elven archers who patrol the forests of Kyonin
and brave the demon-haunted swamps of Tanglebriar.
In the islands of the Shackles, pirate captains fight with
swords and pistols while their crew, most of whom can’t
afford a rare and expensive handgun, might use the same
combat style with a similar weapon such as a crossbow
or hand crossbow.
While firearms are still relatively rare in the Inner
Sea, the stories they inspire and the combat styles that
incorporate them have spread faster than the technology
itself. Snipers, drifters, weapon performers, and more
have a place in Golarion that is larger than the impact
of firearms alone. Even if your world or region doesn’t
include guns, there might be options perfect for your
next character in this section. The options presented here
can add new choices and exciting abilities for characters
of any campaign world, regardless of the setting’s
technology level.
CHARACTER OPTIONS
A sniper without a spotter is like a sentry without a spyglass. Sure, you might catch a few
enemies, but you’ll miss more threats than you’ll ever see on your own. I knew that going
after the bandits, but I went anyways. Was I supposed to just let them take everything
from me and hope they didn’t do it again to the next family? Absolutely not.
Things started out well enough. Tracked them down by the trail of bloody footprints and
careless tracks they left from my farm to their camp. I found a nearby spot overlooking
the camp from a small bluff. They probably set up there knowing it’d make it harder
for anyone to see the smoke from their fires, or for people like me to sneak up on them.
Fortunately for me, the top of that bluff was as close as I needed to be.
I saw my shot when the bandit who killed my boy stood up in the middle of the camp
to make some speech. Don’t know what he was planning on saying, but my statement
was loud and clear when Alessandra roared like an angry dragon and put a lead round
clean through him. Reload, aim, fire. Reload, aim, fire. Two more down, but a pair of
them got clear and started climbing the sides of the bluff. Should I focus on the bandits
who were still in my field of fire or give up my position to deal with the ones coming at
my flanks? Rough spot, hard choice. That’s the kind of thing a spotter would’ve been real
helpful for. Should’a had someone watching my back. Ah, well. Reload, aim, fire.
—Griestly Peppercorn, retired shield marshal
WHY NO GUN PROFICIENCY?
While most of the character options in this section
provide benefits that are particularly useful or even
specifically tailored for firearms, remarkably few of
them outside of the gunslinger give a firearm-specific
proficiency progression. You might be asking yourself
why that is and there’s a very simple answer: for the vast
majority of characters, it isn’t necessary.
Just like knives, swords, spears, and every other
category of weapon, firearms come in simple, martial,
and advanced variants. As long as a character has
access to firearms (page 148), they’re also likely to have
a selection of firearms with which they are already
proficient. Additionally, many of the character options in
this section work equally well with crossbows as they
do with firearms. This means the options in this chapter
automatically support whichever category of weapons
(simple, martial, or advanced) your character knows how
to use.
121
121
