Introduction
Gears
Characters
Gears
Equipment
Guns
Characters
Guns
Equipment
The Rotating
Gear
Glossary
And Index
Guns &
GEARS
Only Osirion’s ascendancy to the east united the
Imperium’s efforts, and the two nations clashed bitterly
in a war of attrition that Jistka slowly lost, though not
before creating and conjuring extremely dangerous
beings that threatened to destroy the Imperium as readily
as they devastated its enemies. At last, Jistka crumbled
under imperial succession crises and warfare, ground to
dust by Osirion’s equally grim armies.
Unlike the cultural revivals enjoyed by Thassilon and
Osirion, Jistka has remained a dead and largely forgotten
civilization whose influence rarely resurfaces directly.
Archaeologists and explorers occasionally uncover pristine
ruins or emergency caches where the Imperium hid golems
for a final counterattack. However, Jistka’s living legacy
also survives in automatons (page 36), who have started
reappearing after a millennia-long hiatus.
Infused Constructs
Without an animating force, a construct is merely a glorified
statue. While more ethically built constructs rely on a
powerful mote of positive energy, each Jistkan construct
required a trapped entity such as an earth elemental—the
more cumbersome the golem, the more powerful the bound
spirit needed. Although original Jistkan constructs are
now rare enough that most think of them as a monolithic
technology, the Imperium’s golemcraft techniques evolved
steadily over more than a thousand years as artificers
rediscovered lost techniques, tested theories, exhausted
resources, invented new tools, and laid groundwork for
construct design in the modern era.
ELEMENTAL CONSTRUCTS
During his voyages, Arustun uncovered and compiled
fragments of lost Azlanti clockwork and its underlying
theory. His companions eagerly deciphered these
techniques and created several of their own ticking
servitors, yet their clockwork creations always felt
hollow and lifeless—serviceable replicas of another
culture’s technology that didn’t reflect Jistkan values and
Arustun’s own vision. Early Jistkans had built grand cities,
attracting the scattered peoples of northern Garund to
prosper there. As the fledgling artificers reasoned, their
own constructs should arise in the same way, by creating
a magnificent articulated home, magically coaxing spirits
into the physical bodies, and benefiting from those new
inhabitants’ labor as recompense. Thus, these Jistkans
gradually developed their own golem technology powered
not by springs and gears, but by elementals inhabiting and
animating the lifeless bodies.
But how? Modern golemcraft often relies on arcane
spellcasting. Despite having unearthed elements of
Azlanti clockwork, these Jistkans lived centuries before
the legendary spellcaster Old-Mage Jatembe brought
arcane magic back to Golarion. Therefore, the magic
that bound these first Jistkan golems evolved from time-
honored traditions of oral history, story craft, and occult
magic. Rather than forcibly bind elementals, these earliest
artificers imbued each golem with a compelling narrative.
Once a free-willed elemental drew near, the magic drew
it in, trapping it both inside a powerful body and within
an insidious story that reinforced loyalty to the golem’s
master. No doubt many artificers believed they had done
these elementals a favor by providing a home, and some
freed the trapped spirits after years of indentured servitude.
Yet at the core, this magic was glorified brainwashing,
and it laid the foundation for a millennium of subsequent
elemental enslavement.
Although reliance on elementals remained steady, the
techniques and demands evolved with time. The occult
techniques suffered from inherent limits, for capturing
errant elementals required careful customization and could
only ensnare those beings already wandering northern
Garund. Once the supply ran low, golem creation slowed.
A more economical and direct option later developed once
arcane magic was reintegrated into Jistkan technologies:
conjuring a limitless supply of elementals from the planes
into waiting construct bodies. With supply constraints
removed, golem creation expanded from a prestige craft
to an imperial industry, supported by a growing class of
priest-artificers who constructed arcane spell work to
power their creations. While these artificers maintained
some of their predecessors’ cultural values, traditional
binding rituals couldn’t compete with these new arcane
solutions, and the occult techniques faded from practice
and memory. Even in the modern era, Jistkan arcane
binding methodology forms the core of golem creation,
and the older occult approaches remain extremely rare.
For every problem solved, though, another arose. The
hypnotic narrative trapping elementals in occult golems
functioned like a maze, always redirecting the elemental’s
thoughts and tricking it deeper into the mental trap.
Arcane techniques act more like prisons, relying on raw
power and careful formulas to restrain their captives. But
no wall is impervious. Under great stress, an arcane golem’s
animating force strains at—and sometimes breaks free
of—these barriers. To bystanders, this struggle resembles
confusion and violent rage as the elemental’s desperate
struggles seize control of its artificial body before the
magic regains control.
Despite this, only the arcane designs could meet
Jistka’s needs, for their armies increasingly relied on large
quantities of ready-made golems as labor, shock troops,
and guardians. Jistkan miners and loggers directed golems
to harvest ever vaster resources to trade for reagents and
fuel the forges. Northern Garund’s arid conditions partly
hearken to this ravenous expansion. Few could oppose the
Imperium’s full might, at least until Osirion’s rise.
FIEND CONSTRUCTS
At first a distant curiosity to the east, Osirion grew quickly,
trespassing on Jistka’s spheres of influence and intercepting
crucial trade that sustained the Imperium. Tensions erupted
213
213
