Introduction
Gears
Characters
Gears
Equipment
Guns
Characters
Guns
Equipment
The Rotating
Gear
Glossary
And Index
Guns &
GEARS
darkness. The scope grants you a +1 item bonus to Perception
checks involving sight in areas of dim light visible through
the scope (as well as in areas of darkness, if the scope has
been activated).
Activate [one-action] Interact; Effect You gain darkvision until the
beginning of your next turn, as long as you continue to
look through the scope.
Type darkvision scope; Level 5; Price 160 gp
Type greater darkvision scope; Level 15; Price 5,500 gp
The item bonus is +2 and activating the scope grants greater
darkvision until the beginning of your next turn, as long as
you continue to look through the scope.
MAGNETITE SCOPE
ITEM 9+
MAGICAL
TRANSMUTATION
Usage attached to firearm (scope); Bulk L
More of a field projector than a scope, this small cylinder
of magnetite has been enchanted to spread and accelerate
the shrapnel of a scatter weapon further than the weapon’s
natural capabilities. Furthermore, some of the floating
magnetite inside the scope’s structure can help you when
attempting to determine the your allies’ locations. The
magnetite scope grants you a +2 item bonus to Survival
checks to Sense Direction when using the scope to assist
you in navigating. This scope can only be attached to
firearms with the scatter trait.
Activate [one-action] Interact; Effect The next Strike you make this
round with the gun to which the scope is attached has its
scatter radius increased by 5 feet.
Type magnetite scope; Level 9; Price 800 gp
Type greater magnetite scope; Level 17; Price 16,000 gp
The item bonus is +3, and activating the scope increases the
scatter radius by 10 feet.
MAGNIFYING SCOPE
ITEM 3+
DIVINATION
MAGICAL
Usage attached to firearm or crossbow (scope); Bulk L
These scopes use magically enhanced lenses to extend the
range of your weapon and help spot distant foes. The scope
grants you a +1 item bonus to visual Perception checks to
Seek creatures through the scope.
Activate [one-action] Interact; Effect While gazing through the scope,
you zoom in on your targets to make it easier to hit them
at a distance. You increase the range increment of the
weapon to which the scope is attached by 5 feet until
the beginning of your next turn or until you’re no longer
wielding the weapon, whichever comes first.
Type magnifying scope; Level 3; Price 70 gp
181
181
