Introduction
Gears
Gears
Equipment
Gunslingers
and
Shootists
Guns and
Black
Powder
Equipment
Guns and
Gears on
Golarion
Glossary
and Index
Guns &
GEARS
dangerous magical symbols inscribed upon it, incriminating
legal documents, or just simply paper waste, sometimes you
just need to make sure a document is completely destroyed
in a way that makes it nearly impossible to read afterwards.
Enter the paper shredder, a clockwork device that performs
exactly this function.
With 1 minute of wind-up, a paper shredder can function
for up to 1 hour of shredding, and it automatically enters
standby mode when not in use, meaning the device can
typically go for weeks between wind-ups unless you shred
an exceptionally large volume of paper.
Setting a piece of paper or parchment into the paper
shredder takes a single Interact action, which means you
can shred up to three pages of paper or parchment each
round. If the page is longer than normal, it takes longer
to shred, as determined by the GM. Additionally, only
one person can use the shredder each round, limiting
it to shredding three pages per round regardless of how
many people are available to feed paper into it. The paper
shredders rips and tears the paper or parchment apart into
tiny disjointed strips. This is typically sufficient to destroy
glyphs of warding and other similar dangerous magical
traps on the paper, though the GM might determine that
particularly resilient magical traps find some way to survive
their shredding. If the paper is magically protected or
otherwise has more Hardness than a normal sheet of paper
or parchment, the shredder can’t shred it. After churning
such hardened paper for 1 round, the shredder spits it back
out without harming the shredder. This prevents shredding
any other paper during that round.
PRINTING PRESS
ITEM 9
RARE
CLOCKWORK
Price 600 gp
Bulk 20
The printing press is a revolutionary machine that combines
movable type with a mechanical inking system and screw
press, allowing for the mass production of large volumes
of text. Using the press, a worker can produce up to 3,600
identical pages per day. In order to use the printing press,
you must first set the type for the page you want to print.
Time required to set type varies depending on the number
of characters used; from 1 hour for small pages with brief
text, to 8 hours for a full-sized normal page of text, though
extreme examples may be outside this range. When you
prepare a page for printing, you can include engraved
images in addition to text. No magical properties of text are
transferred in the printing process, so it cannot be used to
mass-produce magical scrolls, glyphs of warding, or similar
spells or magic items.
STEAMFLIGHT PACK
ITEM 15
RARE
CLOCKWORK
STEAM
Usage worn backpack; Bulk 2
Price 6,000 gp
Activate [one-action] Interact
The steamflight pack allows its user to fly without using
magic or wings. Each steamflight pack looks like a large
brass backpack with two large nozzles mounted on the
sides pointing downward. It also features metal arms
reaching around the front that terminate in handles with
activation buttons on them. When the user holds down an
activation button, a complex series of mechanisms pumps
water from the large tank in the backpack and releases it
through the nozzles as powerful jets of steam, enabling the
user to fly short distances. Tilting the handle adjusts the
nozzles’ angles, allowing the user to control the direction
of their flight.
When active, the steamflight pack gives the user a fly
Speed of 20 feet. It carries enough water for 20 minutes of
operation and can be refilled in five minutes with a supply of
normal water and a funnel.
Activate [two-actions] Interact; Effect You turn the steamflight pack
on or off.
STEAM WINCH
ITEM 8
RARE
STEAM
Price 425 gp
Usage operated with two hands; Bulk 2
This hefty winch is powered by a small steam engine and
includes a 100 ft. length of steel cable, which enables you
to haul a heavier load than you could with a hand cranked
winch or comealong (Lost Omens Pathfinder Society Guide
114). A steam winch allows you to slowly pull a heavy load
(usually up to 50 Bulk) along a flat surface or up and down
a vertical expanse.
Attaching a steam winch to a device takes three Interact
actions, while starting the winch (and getting it warm
enough to operate) takes 10 minutes. Once in operation,
a steam winch requires regular maintenance to function.
Every twenty minutes, the boiler must be refilled and heat
levels maintained.
TIMEPIECE
ITEM 1+
UNCOMMON
CLOCKWORK
Clockwork timepieces come in a variety of sizes and aesthetic
styles, but they’re all designed to display the accurate time
of day down to the second.
Clockwork timepieces have a 24-hour activation cycle,
after which they must wound in a process that takes 1
minute to complete.
Type desktop clock; Level 1; Price 10 gp; Bulk 3
Desktop clocks have been designed to be small enough to
only take up a quarter of a typical writing desk’s surface
area, but they’re still too bulky and heavy to be lugged
around casually.
Type grand clock; Level 3; Price 50 gp; Bulk 16
These towering, ten-foot-tall clocks have been painstakingly
handcrafted by skilled artisans and feature loud chimes that
can be heard hourly throughout a manor. Owners of grand
clocks usually tend to display them prominently in a study,
lounge area, or foyer.
89
89
