SAMPLE INVENTOR
WEAPON INVENTOR
You’ve created an experimental
weapon, in this case a bow,
to wreak havoc on your foes
from afar.
ABILITY SCORES
Prioritize Intelligence for your
inventor abilities and Dexterity to
hit with your bow innovation.
SKILLS
Acrobatics, Arcana, Crafting,
Occultism, Society, Stealth, Thievery
INNOVATION
Weapon
FEATS
Explosive Leap (1st), Searing
Restoration (2nd), Dual-Form
Weapon (4th), Megavolt (6th),
Manifold Modifications (8th),
Helpful Tinkering (10th), Gigavolt
(12th), Unstable Redundancies
(14th), Persistent Boost (16th),
Devastating Weaponry (18th)
If you have the revolutionary innovation class feature, you can choose a 60-foot or
90-foot cone when you use an unstable Deep Freeze.
Special If your innovation is a minion, it can take this action rather than you.
GIGAVOLT
FEAT 12
INVENTOR
Prerequisites Megavolt
When you unleash electricity from your innovation, you can bounce it off obstacles,
creating a field of electric death. When you use Megavolt, each time your line of
electricity hits a solid barrier, such as a wall, it bounces off at an angle of your choice
and continues until you have reached the full length of the line. Even if a creature is
in the area from multiple bounces, it takes the damage only once.
SHARED OVERDRIVE
FEAT 12
INVENTOR
Prerequisites Overdrive Ally
You’ve experimented enough on your teammates to transfer a substantial number
of powered-up gizmos to them, enabling one of your allies to benefit from the full
effects and duration of your Overdrive. The first time you use Overdrive Ally during a
given Overdrive, the effect lasts for the remainder of the duration of your Overdrive,
instead of just until the end of the target’s next turn. Any further uses of Overdrive
Ally during the same Overdrive have their normal duration, per Overdrive Ally.
14TH LEVEL
EXPLOSIVE MANEUVER [one-action]
FEAT 14
INVENTOR
Prerequisites weapon innovation
Requirements Your last action was a successful Strike against a
foe using your weapon innovation.
Thanks to a hidden experimental feature you built into your
weapon, your weapon explosively deploys levers, tangling
hooks, or similar mechanisms to provide significant assistance
when you perform a combat maneuver. When you use
Explosive Maneuver, choose Grapple, Shove, or Trip. Your
weapon innovation must have a weapon trait that matches
the action you chose (for instance, to choose Grapple, your
weapon must have the grapple trait). You take the chosen
action against the same foe as your previous successful
Strike, using the same multiple attack penalty as your
previous successful Strike. You still increase your multiple
attack penalty after the Grapple, Shove, or Trip, as normal.
PARAGON COMPANION
FEAT 14
INVENTOR
Prerequisites Incredible Companion
Your construct companion has reached the pinnacle of form and function. Your
construct companion becomes a paragon construct companion.
SOARING ARMOR
FEAT 14
INVENTOR
MODIFICATION
Prerequisites armor innovation
Whether through a release of jets of flame, propeller blades, sonic bursts, streamlined
aerodynamic structure, electromagnetic fields, or some combination of the above,
you’ve managed to free your innovation from the bonds of gravity! While wearing
your innovation, you gain a fly Speed equal to your land Speed.
30
30
