Introduction
Gears
Characters
Gears
Equipment
Guns
Characters
Guns
Equipment
The Rotating
Gear
Glossary
And Index
Guns &
GEARS
UNSTABLE REDUNDANCIES [free-action]
FEAT 14
INVENTOR
Trigger You would attempt the flat check for an unstable
action, but you haven’t rolled the flat check yet.
You’ve built triple redundancies into your innovation and
added all sorts of buffers to protect it from the harm of your
unstable experiments. You automatically succeed at the
triggering flat check.
You can’t rely on your Unstable Redundancies again until
you spend 10 minutes setting them back up. If you spend 10
minutes retuning your innovation so you can use unstable
actions again, you can set up your Unstable Redundancies
during the same time.
16TH LEVEL
JUST THE THING!
FEAT 16
INVENTOR
Frequency once per hour
Need to balance on a razor’s edge, force open an iron door, or
persuade a dragon to negotiate? Never fear! No matter the
situation, you always have just the thing. You attempt a skill
action that takes 1 minute or less to complete, using the same
number of actions or amount of time as normal. However, as
you take the action, describe a device you pull out and use
to accomplish the skill. The specifics of how you accomplish
this are up to you, but they should fit the challenge at hand.
For instance, you might use gravitic stabilizers to balance on
the razor’s edge, a force battering ram gizmo to open the iron
door, or a device that produces an aroma with the ability to
pacify wyrms to persuade the dragon. Using an invention in
this way lets you alter how you calculate the skill check used
in the action. Instead of the normal skill modifier associated
with that skill action, you use your Crafting modifier.
PERSISTENT BOOST
FEAT 16
INVENTOR
Prerequisites offensive boost
Your innovation sets foes on fire, covers them in acid, leaves
barbed thorns behind, or otherwise deals persistent damage
to your foes that sticks around long after you deliver your
boosted attack. When you or your construct innovation
damage a foe with offensive boost, that foe also takes 1d8
persistent damage of the same damage type as the offensive
boost damage.
YOU FAILED TO ACCOUNT FOR... THIS! [reaction]
FEAT 16
INVENTOR
Trigger A creature you can see targets you with an attack
against your AC.
When your foes try to attack you, you always seem to
have some outlandish invention you can pull out at the last
second to protect you from whatever attack they throw at
you. Describe a device you’re attempting to use to protect
yourself from the foe’s attack—for instance, when attacked
by a shocker lizard’s shock Strike, you might pull out a
specially grounded lightning rod from that time you tried to
power an invention by harnessing a thunderstorm! Using an
invention to defend in this way means that the attack roll
for the triggering attack targets your Crafting DC instead of
your AC.
Since you’re using your Crafting DC instead of your AC,
any penalties to your AC don’t apply, but this doesn’t remove
any conditions or other effects that are causing you such
penalties. For instance, if you were flat-footed and used an
invention to defend against a sneak attack, you’d still take
the extra precision damage if you were hit, even though the
–2 penalty to AC from being flat-footed wouldn’t apply to
your Crafting DC.
18TH LEVEL
DEVASTATING WEAPONRY [three-actions]
FEAT 18
INVENTOR
Prerequisites weapon innovation
You release a volley of projectiles from your weapon, or
power it to fly in every direction across the battlefield and
Strike multiple creatures. Make a Strike with your weapon
innovation against each foe within 30 feet of you. Don’t
increase your multiple attack penalty until after making all
the attacks. If your innovation is a melee weapon and any of
the attacks are outside your reach, you Release the weapon
before the Strikes, and it returns to your grasp after all of
them. If your hands are full when the weapon returns, it
falls to the ground in your space. As normal, if your weapon
innovation requires one or more actions to reload between
Strikes, you can’t use it to make multiple attacks with
Devastating Weaponry.
ENGINE OF DESTRUCTION [three-actions]
FEAT 18
INVENTOR
Prerequisites construct innovation
Your construct unleashes a broad swath of devastation by
separating its limbs, deploying hidden armaments, or using
a similar technique to wreak havoc. You Command your
innovation. Instead of its normal actions, it Strides once,
then makes a Strike against each foe within 30 feet of it
with a +2 circumstance bonus to its attack rolls. The multiple
attack penalty doesn’t increase until after the construct
makes all the attacks.
NEGATE DAMAGE [reaction]
FEAT 18
INVENTOR
Prerequisites armor innovation
Trigger You would take damage.
Your armor innovation activates various devices you
prepared ahead of time, and you use one of them to reduce
the damage you would take by 15.
Unstable Function You activate all the precautions at
once, violently repelling the incoming attack to blunt its
force. Add the unstable trait to Negate Damage and reduce
the damage you would take by 50.
3131
