Unexpected
Sharpshooter
“Oh would you look at that, there’s a bunch of bullet
holes around here... so that’s what all the ruckus was
about! Six... seven... eight of you, huh? Oh, but did you
notice the northern finch over there in that tree a minute
ago? Its nest is up there, but I think all those gunshots
startled it. You think you could quiet down so maybe it’ll
come back?”
–Viri, gnome ornithologist, just before a series of
strange accidents mysteriously took down a hardened
bandit squad of eight former Alkenstar veterans.
Some people say you must be the luckiest soul in all of
Golarion to still be alive and kicking after all the dangers
you’ve seen. Others say that, given the circumstances
and the number of foes who you’ve defeated seemingly
by accident, that there’s no way you can really be as
incompetent as you seem. These critics claim there has
to be some kind of angle, some racket you’re running.
Either way, you sure don’t look or act dangerous, except
possibly to yourself.
Somehow, despite your apparent clumsiness, professed
confusion, and known propensity to incite calamity, you
find yourself standing after every battle. The same can’t
often be said for your enemies. Funny how that works
out, isn’t it?
Additional Feats: 4th Hit the Dirt! (page 111); Risky
Reload (page 112); 10th Trick Shot (page 116)
UNEXPECTED SHARPSHOOTER DEDICATION
FEAT 2
UNCOMMON
DEDICATION
DEDICATION
ARCHETYPE
DEDICATION
Frequency once per day
Who needs skill when you’ve got dumb luck? Sometimes
your shots hit miraculously, regardless of the fact that you
seemed to slip when you pulled the trigger or that you weren’t
aiming at your foe when you fired. You gain the Accidental
Shot activity.
Accidental Shot [two-actions] (fortune) Frequency once per day; Effect
You make a Strike with a ranged weapon, rolling the attack
and damage twice and using the better results for each. The
attack ignores circumstance penalties to the attack roll and
any flat check required due to the target being concealed
or hidden.
Special You can’t select another dedication feat until
you’ve gained two other feats from the unexpected
sharpshooter archetype.
LUCKY ESCAPE [reaction]
FEAT 4
ARCHETYPE
MISFORTUNE
Prerequisites Unexpected Sharpshooter Dedication
Frequency once per day
Trigger A creature targets you with an attack, even if you
aren’t aware of it.
Your enemy lies in wait, lines up the perfect
shot, and pulls the trigger... then at just the
right moment you duck down to
notice
something
scrawled
on the cobblestone in chalk,
a shiny coin, or some other
coincidental distraction, creating
an opportunity for the attack
to miss. The attacker must
roll the attack twice and use the
worse result.
NO HARD FEELINGS	 FEAT 6
ARCHETYPE
Prerequisites
Unexpected
Sharpshooter Dedication
Despite the devastation your
weapons tend to inflict upon their
targets or the destruction you
might unleash upon an area, your foes still manage to walk
away at the end of a fight—at least sometimes. You can choose
to add the nonlethal trait to your ranged weapons, making
the choice of whether to add the trait or not just before
each Strike.
THAT WAS A CLOSE ONE, HUH? [one-action]
FEAT 7
ARCHETYPE
SKILL
Prerequisites master in Deception, Unexpected Sharpshooter
Dedication
142
142
