As some of the first places in the world to have black
powder, the nations and kingdoms of Tian Xia and Vudra
each have their own array of black powder technology,
most of which evolved from the basic designs of the
earliest tools and weapons that used explosives. Over
the years, the formula for black powder has changed
from time to time depending on usage, leading to some
discoveries being lost and later uncovered and improved
upon. Today, in addition to domestic inventions such as
fireworks and fire lances, firearms from other continents
are becoming slightly less rare, despite many attempts to
limit their spread.
Tian Xia
The discovery of black powder was a long process that
began in a remote region of what would be east Minkai
today. For centuries, mines and quarries in this particular
area often experienced cave-ins and rock falls after an
explosion. For a while, many believed that the introduction
of air and candle flame into the area caused the collapse.
It was not until the last few centuries of the Yixing empire
that alchemists took an interest in the phenomenon and
began experimenting on the mineral composition of the
terrain around these accident sites.
After concluding that the combination of sulfur, saltpeter,
and graphite dust were the culprits, miners used this
knowledge to survey for potentially dangerous locations
to avoid. As the demand for stone grew from construction
needs, however, people realized that perhaps the explosive
nature of the mixture could be put to good use.
Formulation was a dangerous and tedious task, and
many researchers died before one particularly stable
and reliable formula emerged. From this, many mining
companies developed their own formulas, which
they guarded jealously. Weaker versions also started
circulating among the common people, which saw some
usage in areas such as agriculture, fishing, and festivities.
Even magic users began using the powder in tandem with
fire-related spells, though its volatile nature drove many
to stay away.
TIAN XIA AND VUDRA:
BIRTH OF BLACK POWDER
220
220
