UNCOMMON BACKGROUNDS
The following backgrounds are uncommon, typically
because they require a character to be a member of an
organization, own a current residence in a particular
settlement, or a maintain a level of social status or
responsibility that you should discuss with your GM
and group first.
For instance, the rank of a judge or sheriff grants
social status and judicial power with the area of your
appointment, so it’s appropriate to check with your
GM and group to ensure the stories and adventures
everyone wants to tell make sense with a character
possessing those titles, and determine how prominent
the associated locales will be to the campaign.
ALKENSTAR OUTLAW
BACKGROUND
UNCOMMON
You’re an outlaw whose first crime was stealing the guns
from Alkenstar’s Gunworks which allowed you to commence
a crime spree of epic proportions. You don’t know where
your road ends, but it’s probably going to be a bloody affair.
The life of an adventurer might even be a relief compared
to a life forever on the run from Alkenstar authorities and
their allies.
Choose two ability boosts. One boost must be to Dexterity
or Constitution, and one is a free ability boost.
You’re trained in Thievery and Underworld Lore. You gain
the Subtle Theft skill feat.
ALKENSTAR SOJOURNER
BACKGROUND
UNCOMMON
You came to Alkenstar because you heard they had guns,
but you stayed because of the atmosphere. Or the guns.
Either way, journalism and scientific curiosity opened the
door to a life of adventure. Now you continue to adventure
in the Alkenstar area, using your skills to deal with
whatever situations present themselves.
Choose two ability boosts. One must be to Intelligence or
Charisma, and one is a free ability boost.
You’re trained in Society and Engineering Lore. You gain
the Streetwise skill feat.
CIRCUIT JUDGE
BACKGROUND
UNCOMMON
You’re a circuit judge, a courtroom on horseback who serves
a group of communities out in the Mana Wastes or a similar
backwoods region. You show up every couple of months, hear
the cases that have piled up since your last visit, give verdicts,
and then it’s on to the next town in your itinerary. It’s not the
easiest life in the world, but it’s an interesting one, and you
hear some mighty strange cases. Chances are, it was one of
those cases that set you on the road to adventure.
Choose two ability boosts. One must be to Intelligence or
Wisdom, and one is a free ability boost.
You’re trained in Deception and Legal Lore. You gain the
Lie to Me skill feat.
GOLDHAND ARMS DEALER
BACKGROUND
UNCOMMON
You’re a dwarven agent of the Goldhand Lodge, a collection
of dwarven merchants based out of Dongun Hold who
seeks to sell guns far and wide. High King Anong Arunak
hasn’t expressed approval for such a method of distribution
yet, but in the meantime you’re still out and about,
talking up your wares and occasionally providing visceral
demonstrations of the overwhelming stopping power of
your firearms. These demonstrations and sales have given
you a taste for adventure, and the constant threat of piracy
has convinced you of the importance of adventuring with
a group.
Choose two ability boosts. One must be to Dexterity or
Charisma, and one is a free ability boost.
You’re trained in Diplomacy and Mercantile Lore. You
gain the Group Impression skill feat.
PRESS-GANGED
BACKGROUND
UNCOMMON
Was it five shots or six? It doesn’t really matter in the
end, because after those nice folks bought all your drinks,
you woke up on the lowest rung of the ladder. Whether a
crewmate on a ship, a conscript in an army, or something
worse, you’ve nowhere to go but up. This background
generally requires buy-in with the entire group to tell
a story allowing you to play a character starting their
adventuring due to circumstances outside their own
control. However, you can also play a character who was
once press-ganged and has since escaped that life. If you
do, press-ganged doesn’t have the uncommon trait, and it
has the same mechanical effects either way.
Choose two ability boosts. One must be to Strength or
Constitution, and one is a free ability boost.
You’re trained in the Athletics skill and the Labor Lore
skill. You gain the Armor Assist skill feat (Advanced Player’s
Guide 203).
SHERIFF
BACKGROUND
UNCOMMON
You hold an official title of sheriff or deputy in a small
community. Those that would do harm to others flee your
gaze, for they know it brings the promise of castigation.
You protect your town, watch over those who have placed
their trust in you, and make sure those that would do
others harm are brought to justice.
Choose two ability boosts. One must be to Dexterity or
Charisma, and one is a free ability boost.
You’re trained in the Intimidation skill and the Hunting
Lore skill. You gain the Group Coercion skill feat.
124
124
