Rare and Unique Magic
Firearms
While firearms are relatively uncommon in Golarion
and extremely unusual to encounter in the Inner
Sea region outside of a few specific areas, they are
nonetheless an attractive choice for use in crafting
unique signature weapons and other great works.
The fey of Arcadia created their own firearm in the
form of the Rowan Rifle to gift to their champions,
while in the Inner Sea heroes from several countries
and regions have traveled to Alkenstar to have their
trophies immortalized as part of a powerful and
unusual weapon.
The following are rare and unique specific magic
firearms, possessing unusual and sometimes outlandish
special effects. Some among these firearms are cursed,
haunted, or even intelligent. You can find more
information on cursed items on Gamemastery Guide
page 90, and more information on intelligent items
on Gamemastery Guide page 88. A haunted firearm
is simply a cursed firearm whose curse derives from a
confused, enraged, or tormented spirit attached
to the weapon. It is often possible, though
difficult, to discover and resolve the unfinished
business that will put that spirit to rest. In
this case, the firearm’s curse might be
forever lifted as the spirit goes free
to the afterlife, never to bother the
firearm’s wielder again.
CURSED FIREARMS
ARBOREAL’S REVENGE
ITEM 6
RARE
CURSED
MAGICAL
TRANSMUTATION
Usage held in 2 hands; Bulk 2
This walnut and brass +1 striking blunderbuss has a natural
look, with wood worn smooth by time, but left knotted and
gnarled. The handgrip beneath the flared muzzle is a well-
positioned bulging tree knot, and the long stock looks as if it
was grown to fit you. On closer examination, the whorls and
rings in the wood resemble eyes.
Arboreal’s revenge is a haunted firearm constructed with
wood hewn from a living arboreal, slaying the arboreal and
trapping its spirit in the firearm. Perhaps a patient wielder
could one day put the arboreal’s spirit to rest, or at least come
to terms with it, abating the drawbacks of the weapon while
keeping its advantages.
When you first fire arboreal’s revenge, the blunderbuss
fuses with you, after which it’s almost impossible to remove it
from your possession with a remove curse or similar effect, like
many cursed items. You gain weakness 5 to fire and the flat
check for you to recover from persistent fire damage increases
from 15 to 17, or from 10 to 12 if you receive appropriate help.
Whenever you wield arboreal’s revenge, the arboreal
spirit bound to the blunderbuss attempts to overtake you.
The wood handgrip sprouts roots which grow around your
hand, binding both of your hands to the firearm. You gain a
+4 circumstance bonus to your Reflex DC when defending
against checks to Disarm you. However, you can’t Release
your grip on the blunderbuss until you forcibly tear off the
roots, though they do allow you to move your hands enough
(and only enough) to reload and fire the blunderbuss. Tearing
off the roots takes 1 minute.
The arboreal haunting the firearm can use the following
two effects whenever it wants, often using them at random.
You can coax it into performing them each intentionally once
per day, with the following activations.
Activate [free-action] command; Frequency once per day; Effect The
arboreal haunting the blunderbuss attempts to regrow
itself into a new physical body by sprouting from the
bodies of all the creatures that the firearm recently
harmed. You and all creatures within 60 feet damaged by
arboreal’s revenge within the last minute must attempt
a DC 20 Fortitude saving throw. On a failure, they take
a –10-foot circumstance penalty to their Speeds as roots
rapidly sprout from their wounds, which lasts until they
Escape (DC 20).
Activate [two-actions] command, Interact; Frequency once per day;
Effect You cast barkskin from the blunderbuss as a 2nd-
level primal spell. However,
the weakness to fire imposed
by barkskin is cumulative
with the weakness to fire
imposed by this weapon’s curse,
for a total of weakness 8 to fire.
IMMOLATION CLAN PISTOL
ITEM 10
RARE
CURSED
EVOCATION
FIRE
MAGICAL
Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk 1
This charred and blackened +2 striking clan pistol is coated
in a thick layer of soot and grease and its retort sounds
uncomfortably like a scream. Clearly at dangerous risk of
misfire, this weapon claimed the life of its dwarven crafter
shortly after completion and is haunted by that pained spirit.
This ever-burning spirit keeps the firearm warm to the touch,
regardless of surrounding environment.
No matter how much you clean and maintain it, an
immolation clan pistol is always at risk of a misfire, and
the flat check to avoid a misfire is DC 7 rather than DC 5.
On a misfire, an immolation hand cannon releases a blast
of concentrated fire, dealing you 2d6 fire damage and 2d6
persistent fire damage.
An immolation clan pistol fuses with you when you first
fire it. While you’re fused with the immolation clan pistol, the
pained spirit haunts your dreams, forcing you to relive its
death each night. If you fired the immolation clan pistol that
day, you are unharmed by these dreams. If you didn’t fire
the immolation clan pistol that day, but still possess it, you
awaken fatigued. If you no longer possess the immolation
clan pistol, the spirit of its dwarven smith is enraged by
your neglect; you awaken fatigued and aflame, taking 2d6
persistent fire damage.
160
160
Immolation Clan Pistol
