DISRUPTIVE BLUR
FEAT 14
GUNSLINGER
Prerequisites way of the drifter
You use cacophonous blasts from your gun or distracting shots from your crossbow
to cause momentary diversions, letting you move about the battlefield with impunity.
After you make a Strike with a firearm or crossbow, creatures can’t take reactions
that would be triggered by your movement for the rest of your turn.
HEADSHOT [two-actions]
FEAT 14
CONCENTRATION
GUNSLINGER
Prerequisites way of the sniper
Requirements You’re wielding a loaded firearm or crossbow.
You attempt to finish your target with a final, well-placed shot. Make a crossbow or
firearm Strike. If you’ve damaged the target within the last minute with the same
weapon and you get a critical success on your attack roll, the target must succeed at
a Fortitude save against your class DC or die; this is a death and incapacitation effect.
A creature that survives is temporarily immune for 1 day. Creatures with no head
(such as dullahans or oozes) are immune to this ability, and creatures with redundant
heads (such as ettins) might survive the destruction of a head.
SHOWSTOPPER
FEAT 14
GUNSLINGER
Prerequisites Pistol Twirl, master in Deception
Your twirling weapons create a grand distraction that’s difficult to look away from.
When using Pistol Twirl to Feint, you can target all enemies within your weapon’s
first range increment who you can perceive and who can see you. You roll one
Deception check and compare it against each target’s Perception DC.
TWO-WEAPON FUSILLADE [one-action]
FEAT 14
FLOURISH
GUNSLINGER
Requirements You’re wielding two weapons, each in a different hand. At least one of
these weapons must be a loaded firearm or loaded crossbow.
You attack with both your weapons in a furious barrage. Strike twice, once with
each weapon.
16TH LEVEL
FATAL BULLET
FEAT 16
GUNSLINGER
You’re especially talented at striking your enemies in their most vulnerable areas.
When you critically hit with a fatal firearm, you deal an additional die of the
appropriate size and damage type for the fatal trait after doubling the weapon’s
damage. For example, after getting a critical hit with a fatal d12
weapon, you add an additional 1d12 damage to the
attack after doubling its damage.
HAIR TRIGGER
FEAT 16
GUNSLINGER
Prerequisites initial deed that allows you to Interact to draw a weapon
No one can react faster than you can pull your trigger. When using your initial deed,
instead of Interacting to draw a weapon, you can Strike with a firearm or crossbow
you’re already wielding. If this Strike hits, the target is also flat-footed until the end
of your first turn of the encounter.
Special If your initial deed allows you to Interact to draw a weapon more than
once, this feat allows you to replace one of these Interact actions and use the other
one to draw a weapon. You can’t replace both Interact actions with Strikes, but you
SAMPLE GUNSLINGER
SNIPER
You favor long-range guns and
powerful shots taken while hiding at a
safe distance.
ABILITY SCORES
Prioritize Dexterity. Wisdom can
improve your Perception and make
your stubborn class feature even
more effective, while Intelligence can
give you access to a broader array of
skills you can utilize from your perch,
away from the thick of battle.
SKILLS
Acrobatics, Crafting, Stealth, Survival
WAY
Sniper
FEATS
Cover Fire (1st), Risky Reload (2nd),
Alchemical Shot (4th)
118
118
