Introduction
Gears
Characters
Gears
Equipment
Guns
Characters
Guns
Equipment
The Rotating
Gear
Glossary
And Index
Guns &
GEARS
MODULAR DYNAMO
FEAT 4
ARCHETYPE
Prerequisites Sterling Dynamo Dedication
Your dynamo has modular configurations, allowing you to
swap between various different possibilities with ease in
order to adapt to various situations in combat. Your dynamo
attack gains the modular trait (page 150), as well as one of
the following configurations of your choice: power driver
(1d6 bludgeoning damage; shove), percussive striker (1d4
bludgeoning damage; agile, finesse), rotating sickle (1d6
slashing damage; trip), or entangling barbs (1d6 piercing
damage; grapple). If you have a manually controlled dynamo,
these damage dice increase by 1 size, as usual, and you can
also choose the extendable baton (1d4 bludgeoning damage;
finesse, reach), which has the damage increase already
factored in.
When you use an Interact action to switch configurations
using the modular trait, you switch between the initial
configuration of dynamo you chose with the Sterling
Dynamo Dedication and the new configuration you chose
with Modular Dynamo.
Special You can select this feat multiple times. Each time,
you choose another configuration and add it to the list of
options you can choose when you use an Interact action with
the modular trait.
PISTON PUNCH [two-actions]
FEAT 6
ARCHETYPE
Prerequisites Sterling Dynamo Dedication
You lash out with a powerful punch, extending your dynamo
to a greater length in order to attack two creatures in a row.
Make a single bludgeoning or piercing dynamo Strike and
compare the attack roll result to the ACs of up to two foes. The
first foe must be within your melee reach and the second foe
must be adjacent to the first foe in a straight line away from
you. Roll damage only once and apply it to each creature you
hit. A Piston Punch counts as two attacks for your multiple
attack penalty. Reduce the operational time of your sterling
dynamo by 1 hour.
STASIAN SMASH [two-actions]
FEAT 8
UNCOMMON
ARCHETYPE
Prerequisites Sterling Dynamo Dedication
Access You are from Ustalav.
You’ve modified your dynamo with Stasian coils, allowing
you to make a powerful attack that crackles with electricity.
Make a dynamo Strike. On a success, the Strike deals an
additional 1d12 electricity damage to the target, as well as
1d4 electricity damage to up to two other foes within 10
feet as sparks leap across the gaps. If you critically fail your
dynamo Strike, you take 1d12 electricity damage. This counts
as two attacks when calculating your multiple attack penalty.
At 18th level, the additional electricity damage to the target
increases to 2d12, and the additional electricity damage to
the other foes increases to 2d4. Reduce the operational time
of your sterling dynamo by 1 hour.
BEAST DYNAMO HOWL [two-actions]
FEAT 10
UNCOMMON
ARCHETYPE
Access You are from Arcadia.
You’ve incorporated beast tech from Arcadia into your
dynamo, adding in components from various terrifying
creatures to enhance your prosthesis’s capabilities. The beast
parts can unleash a disturbing howl as you make a powerful
attack with your dynamo. Attempt a single Intimidation check
to Demoralize each enemy within 30 feet; you don’t take a
penalty when you attempt to Demoralize a creature that
doesn’t understand your language. Then, make a dynamo
Strike. Reduce the operational time of your sterling dynamo
by 1 hour.
GOLEM DYNAMO
FEAT 12
UNCOMMON
ARCHETYPE
Prerequisites Sterling Dynamo Dedication
Access You are an automaton or are otherwise from the
ancient Jistka Imperium.
You’ve learned the secrets of Jistkan golem prostheses,
allowing you to incorporate golem components into your
dynamo and gain a portion of their magic. You gain a +1 status
bonus to saving throws against magic, and your dynamo
Strikes become magical.
SOARING DYNAMO
FEAT 18
ARCHETYPE
Prerequisites Sterling Dynamo Dedication
You’ve built clockwork wings or jets into your dynamo,
allowing you to use your prosthesis to fly. You gain a fly
Speed equal to your Speed. Each minute of flight reduces
the operational time of your sterling dynamo by 1 hour,
measured from the first time you use the Fly action in a
given minute.
PROSTHETICS IN GOLARION
Prosthetics in Golarion don’t require membership
in an archetype or special organization to obtain. A
character can purchase a simple prosthetic foot, eye,
hand, or virtually any other body part for as little as
5 silver pieces, with more expensive prosthetics that
are decorated with unique customizations or designs
available for a corresponding mark-up. For more
information on prosthetics, see page 69 of Pathfinder
Lost Omens Grand Bazaar. The sterling dynamo
prosthetic technology presented here was created
through collaboration between a Dongun Hold prosthesis
inventor, who created the flexible silvery clockwork joint
system, and a researcher from the Clockwork Cathedral
in Absalom, who created a prototype variant that
increased how customizable the model was and sent
it back to the dwarven inventor to iterate further. That
iteration became the sterling dynamo that entered the
market in late 4721 ar. It has been widely applauded for
its adaptability in both combat and everyday use.
53
53
