and trip mines with varying effectiveness and stability, and
for a time after Lung Wa’s establishment, several regions
were unlivable due to the number of explosives left behind.
Currently, many nations frown upon the very concept of
land mines. Historical designs were systemically destroyed
or neglected, and the technology has been intentionally left
to stagnate.
Underwater mines are a relatively new concept in Tian
Xia, though rumors among the weapons engineering and
alchemy community suggest that an arms race involving
them is slowly building up in the northeastern corner of
the continent due to the tensions between Wanshou and
Xidao. Many explosive experts who travel through the
two regions have not been heard from since, and other
governments nearby started considering planting spies
or sending investigators into the region to find out what
happened to these missing experts. Another place that has
been stockpiling explosives—thrown bombs, in this case—
is Hongal, reportedly in preparation for skirmishes with
the oni of Chu Ye.
FIRE ARROWS AND ROCKETS
In addition to their recent stockpile of bombs, Hongal
has been crafting many fire arrows with pouches or tubes
of black powder attached. Originally, alchemists crafted
the first fire arrows in Tian Xia in an attempt to set off
unreliable land mines when they failed to explode on their
own. In time, they became regarded as effective weapons
for a siege, especially for their ability to set structures
alight. Other nations used them in place of firework flares
before devising a stable self-propelling mechanism. This,
along with research into fireworks, led the way to the
development of rockets, which were capable of delivering
even more incendiary material to pursued targets.
These technologies saw relatively more usage during
Lung Wa’s imperialistic expansion. Outnumbered against
the growing empire, defending nations sought to find
anti-siege weapons they could use to defend themselves.
Hwanggot’s hwacha, capable of firing up to a hundred
arrows per cart, arose from this need. Though the pacifist
nation used it in only a few minor skirmishes to defend
border fortresses, it gave rise to other similar anti-siege
weapons in Dtang Ma and Xa Hoi, which helped push
Lung Wa back when the empire’s sights turned to them.
FIRE LANCES
Lung Wa’s cavalry and troops were so feared in part due
to their extensive use and training with fire lances. While
the concept of these close-range weapons had circulated
since the early days of black powder usage, the reliability
of Lung Wa’s formula and production techniques allowed
the empire to arm as many as half of their soldiers
with them. They developed fire lances that produced a
concentrated stream of sparks, and though these lances
were only a threat at very close quarters, the heat and light
served as an additional psychological tactic, especially
against mounted animals. Some of their fire lances were
intentionally loaded with materials that produce smoke to
blind enemies for a devastating lethal stab. The most highly
trained troops used fire lances that were set to explode with
a simple manipulation, sending shrapnel towards the target
like a scattershot. These firelancers trained battle-hardened
mounts that were unafraid of the explosive noise.
Historical text hails General Tang Ye Fei as one of the
most legendary wielders of the fire lance. In one instance,
when she was surrounded by enemy cavalry, she was able
to switch out the damp packet of black powder on the
lance and perfectly time the explosion with a circular
swing to blind all her enemies and cut herself from the
fray. Her weapon, the White Pear Blossom, is displayed in
the Gokan Palace, and many modern firelancers dream of
being allowed to catch a glimpse of it there.
Today, very few nations have a battalion dedicated to
the use of fire lances, meaning most wielders are either
self-taught or taught privately by a professional. Some
have sworn themselves into the service of a nation in
order to gain access to a steady supply of black powder,
while others remain discreet and buy their explosives or
the component ingredients on the black market. Luckily,
these rogue firelancers have been rare enough in numbers
that no authorities have yet to take a particular interest in
spending resources to track them down.
CANNONS
The concept of cannons arose around the time fireworks
became popular. The sight of fireworks and rockets
being propelled into the air had many military engineers
wondering if they could accomplish the same with a
projectile of substantial weight. For centuries, inventors
kept running into the same issue: they couldn’t find a
metal or alloy strong enough to withstand the blast of
an explosion sufficiently powerful enough to launch a
projectile effectively. Current historical records suggest
that metallurgy only developed cast iron strong enough
to propel a head-sized cannonball shortly after the
formation of Lung Wa. The ratfolk uprising became the
perfect opportunity to test these cannons, and they proved
effective in pushing back the invasion. Imperial Lung Wa
further mass-produced cannons and used them often in
siege and naval warfare, as well as for coastal defense as
the empire continued its expansion. They also developed
smaller portable hand cannons to be used by shock troops
when breaking through enemy defenses.
Despite written historical records claiming cannons
did not exist at all prior to Lung Wa, shipwrecks around
Minata suggest otherwise. Divers have recovered ruined
cannons, several times more intricate and lightweight,
but perhaps just as sturdy. Based on the writing on these
cannons, the original owners called them cetbang or
lantaka, and are likely relics of an advanced civilization
whose written records have not yet been recovered. Thus
far, they have been impossible to repair or duplicate.
222
222
