Critical Success You slam the foe down and the magical
energy overwhelms it. The creature is knocked prone,
becomes dazzled for 1 round, and takes damage equal
to 2d6 plus your Strength modifier. The foe is no longer
grabbed or restrained by you.
Success You slam the foe down. The creature is knocked
prone and takes damage equal to your Strength modifier.
The foe is no longer grabbed or restrained by you.
Failure You are unable to slam the creature, but your hold
on the creature remains.
Critical Failure The creature breaks free and is no longer
grabbed or restrained by you.
Enhancement Your arms better channel your core’s power.
You no longer take penalties for attempting to slam larger
foes. Your foe takes damage equal to 2d6 plus your Strength
modifier on a success (or double that on a critical success).
CORE ATTUNEMENT
FEAT 9
AUTOMATON
Prerequisites mage automaton
Your core allows you to draw more power from it. Select one
1st-level arcane spell and one 2nd-level or lower arcane spell,
to which you have access. You can cast your chosen spells as
arcane innate spells each once per day.
Enhancement Your attunement grows stronger. Select one
5th-level or lower arcane spell and one 6th-level or lower
arcane spell, to which you have access. You can cast them
as arcane innate spells each once per day, in addition to the
original spells.
LESSER AUGMENTATION
FEAT 9
AUTOMATON
You’ve focused on enhancing yourself and have received
an improvement to one of your existing abilities. You gain
the enhancement benefits of one of your 1st- or 5th-level
automaton ancestry feats.
You are also capable of reconfiguring your augmentations
to meet your needs. You can spend one week of downtime to
change the enhancement you gain with this feat.
Enhancement You gain the enhancement benefits of
another 1st- or 5th-level automaton ancestry feat. Also, your
reconfigurations take less time. You only need to spend 1 day
of downtime to change any of your enhancements. If you
have multiple enhancements, changing each one requires a
separate day.
RAIN OF BOLTS [two-actions]
FEAT 9
AUTOMATON
Prerequisites sharpshooter automaton
Frequency once per day
Throughout the day, your body produces powerful projectiles
within your chassis. You fire them all at once in either a
30-foot cone or a 10-foot emanation. Foes in the area take
6d6 piercing damage. This increases to 7d6 at 12th level, 8d6
at 15th level, and 9d6 at 18th level.
Enhancement The projectiles regenerate quicker, they are
much more powerful, and you can refine the metallic content
to harm certain creatures. You can use Rain of Bolts once
per hour instead of once per day. The damage increases
to 12d6 and each time you use the action, you can choose
adamantine, cold iron, or silver. The damage from Rain of
Bolts is treated as the metal you chose. At 20th level, the
damage increases to 13d6.
13TH LEVEL
ARCANE LOCOMOTION
FEAT 13
AUTOMATON
You’ve modified your body to allow you to augment your
movement. You gain either a climb Speed of 20 feet or a
swim Speed of 20 feet, your choice.
Enhancement Your body allows for even further forms of
movement. You can either select the option from this feat
you haven’t chosen yet (climb Speed or swim Speed), or you
can increase your land Speed by 5 feet and increase the
Speed you chose from this feat increase to be equal to your
adjusted land Speed.
ASTRAL BLINK
FEAT 13
AUTOMATON
You’ve attuned your core to allow you to phase in and out of
AUTOMATON ORIGINS
The method of creating automatons as the Artificer
Conclave did millennia ago has been lost to time. As
such, most automatons who remain on Golarion were
created during Jistka’s existence. However, there are a
few rare automatons that have different origins. Anquira,
herself an automaton and a high-ranking member of
the Artificer Conclave, resides in Axis and seems to be
nearing the point of recreating the Jistkan process. She’s
created a few promising prototype automatons with her
techniques. There are also rumors of another automaton
doing similar research somewhere in the deserts of the
Golden Road, though the new automatons emerging from
the desert appear somewhat incomplete.
Of significant note are the increased reports of
automatons in southern Garund, originating from the nation
of Eihlona. The nation is famous for its inhabitants’ skill in
mixing magic with technology, particularly the remnants of
Shory technology that crashed within the nation’s borders
in ages past. Eihlonan mage crafters have managed to
recreate automatons using their vast knowledge, magical
prowess, and access to ancient technology, alongside
insights from a few friendly automaton immigrants who
found a respectful and welcoming home there. Though the
process is long and arduous, Eihlona seems to be on the
verge of recreating the success of the Artificer Conclave.
If they do, they could someday produce hundreds, if not
thousands of automatons.
42
42
