Sniping Duo
Skilled shooters who don’t let their egos get in the way of
their efficacy are likely to say that sniping is a two-person
job. Taking down a target without giving away your
position or giving the opponent a window for reprisal is
difficult work that requires teamwork and coordination,
as well as a tight-knit bond and shared perspective. Sniping
duos live and die by the credo “two heads are better than
one,” focusing their skills and strategies toward deadly
efficiency. Whether your spotter and partner is a fellow
ranged combatant or a melee enthusiast, you’ve learned
how to use the openings they provide to devastating effect.
Additional Feats: 4th Assisting Shot (Core Rulebook
145), Cover Fire (page 111); 12th Deflecting Shot (page
115), Redirecting Shot (page 116)
SNIPING DUO DEDICATION
FEAT 2
ARCHETYPE
DEDICATION
Prerequisites trained in at least one type of weapon in the
bow or firearm groups, trained in Stealth
When you take this dedication, choose one willing,
non-minion ally to act as your spotter. As part of your
training in this archetype, you train your spotter in the
necessary habits and techniques to use your abilities
automatically; your spotter doesn’t need to spend any feats
of their own to grant the effects. You only gain the benefits
of your Sniping Duo archetype feats if both you and your
spotter are alive and conscious. You and your spotter don’t
grant your foes lesser cover against one another’s Strikes.
Whenever you or your spotter successfully Strikes a target,
the other member of your duo gains a +1 circumstance
bonus per weapon damage die on the damage roll of their
next Strike made against that target before the end of their
next turn.
You can change your designated spotter by spending 3
days of downtime training with another ally.
Special You can’t select another dedication feat until
you’ve gained two other feats from the sniping duo
archetype.
TRIANGULATE
FEAT 4
ARCHETYPE
AUDITORY
VISUAL
Prerequisites Sniping Duo Dedication
Your spotter’s quick signals help you make even difficult
shots seem simple. As long as both you and your spotter
can see the target of your attacks, you don’t take a penalty
for attacking within your weapon’s second range increment.
The penalty you take for firing into further range increments
is –3 for the third range increment, with an additional –2
penalty for each additional increment beyond the third (–5
for the fourth range increment, –7 for the fifth, and –9 for
the sixth).
EXPLOIT OPENING [reaction]
FEAT 6
ARCHETYPE
Prerequisites Sniping Duo Dedication
Trigger Your spotter critically succeeds at a Strike against a
creature, and that creature is within your ranged weapon’s
first range increment.
You take advantage of your spotter’s devastating attack to
unleash your own follow-up attack. Make a ranged Strike
with a –2 penalty against the target of the triggering attack.
This Strike doesn’t count toward your multiple attack penalty
and your multiple attack penalty doesn’t apply to the Strike.
TARGETED REDIRECTION [one-action]
FEAT 6
ARCHETYPE
Prerequisites Sniping Duo Dedication
You aim a shot at your spotter, intending for your spotter
to redirect that shot off their own weapon or shield to hit
your foe from a better angle, and avoid your foe’s cover.
If your next action is to make a ranged Strike, you treat
your spotter’s position as your own for the purposes of
determining cover and range. Your spotter must be within
your weapon’s first range increment and they must use a
reaction to redirect your shot.
138
138
