Introduction
Gears
Characters
Gears
Equipment
Guns
Characters
Guns
Equipment
The Rotating
Gear
Glossary
And Index
Guns &
GEARS
Dwarven Scattergun: A favored weapon of dwarf
scouts from Dongun Hold, the dwarven scattergun is a
powerful weapon designed to take advantage of a dwarf’s
sturdy frame. A dwarven scattergun fires a large paper
cartridge stuffed with black powder and knuckle-sized
lumps of metal, creating a devastating burst so destructive
that a foolish dwarf might find themself catching
painful ricochets when firing at a too-close target. Some
scatterguns are crafted with a clockwork firing tray that
can quickly sort and load black powder and shot without
needing a prepackaged cartridge, though this is largely an
aesthetic feature with no real mechanical benefit.
Fire Lance: This amazingly simple projectile weapon
is nothing more than a metal tube packed with black
powder and a stopper, attached to the sharpened head of
a javelin. A loaded fire lance can be wielded as a normal
spear, though it requires an Interact action to regrip the
weapon and hold it properly when switching from one
use to another. Fire lances are most commonly found in
Tian Xia, though occasionally one makes its way all the
way to Avistan, typically in the hands of a Tien mercenary
or caravan guard.
Flingflenser: A flingflenser is a
goblin-designed weapon ending in
an ovoid tube with a hatch and
handle on the narrow end.
A cluster of circular
blades held together
and attached to a
black powder packet
with a thin leather strap
serves as ammunition and is
loaded through the hatch before
being fired with a flintlock or other external ignition
mechanism. The flingflenser’s sturdy design also places it
among the more reliable goblin weapons.
Flintlock Musket: The most commonly available of
firearms in Alkenstar, the flintlock musket includes an
external firing mechanism and an efficient and relatively
compact frame. Though lacking the range and firing
power of the arquebus preferred by Alkenstar and
Dongun Hold’s military members, the flintlock musket is
popular among civilians for its ease of use.
Flintlock Pistol: Though less accurate and powerful
than a flintlock musket, the flintlock pistol is a preferred
weapon of privateers thanks to its more compact size and
affordability. Pirate captains often wear a brace of such
pistols in a bandolier so they can draw and fire without
stopping to reload.
Forked Bipod: Developed by Alkenstar scouts who
often don’t have time to break down a tripod when beset
by the chaotic mutant monsters of the Mana Wastes, this
two-pronged stabbing weapon can be used as a bipod to
stabilize a gun with potent kickback. A forked bipod can
be deployed or retrieved for use as a melee weapon as an
Interact action.
Hand Cannon: Popular among privateers and
mercenaries in Goka, hand cannons are little more than
a hardened tube with a handle and external ignition
attached. A hand cannon can be used to fire almost
anything that can be packed into its barrel. The wielder
of a hand cannon can change the damage type granted
by its modular trait as part of the same Interact action
used to reload.
Harmona Gun: A favored weapon of monster hunters
in Arcadia, the harmona gun is a large-bore long gun that
fires a heavy, slow-moving round. The gun got its name
due to the eerie similarity between the buzzing sound its
oversized projectiles make flying through the air and the
flight of a fey bird called a harmona.
Jezail: Jezails are simple, efficient long guns developed
in Casmaron that typically feature a custom stock and
a flintlock firing mechanism. Though lacking the range
and stopping power of an arquebus or the raw force of
a harmona gun, the jezail is an elegant, well-balanced
weapon suitable for a variety of combat
situations. It’s even possible to tuck it
under one arm to fire a less accurate
attack that uses only one hand.
Knuckle Duster: This bit of
hardened metal, favored by street
toughs, is typically made of brass
and features four finger holes so
that it can sit atop the knuckles, adding
extra power to a punch.
Long Air Repeater: Like the one-handed air
repeater, this thin-barreled firearm uses a container
of pressurized air instead of black powder to propel
small metal pellets from an attached cartridge. The long
air repeater has better range and ammo capacity than
the one-handed variant, though it still lacks significant
stopping power. A typical long air repeater magazine
holds 8 pellets.
Mithral Tree: Neither mithral nor a tree, this long gun
takes its name from the legends of the elves of Jinin and
is most commonly found within the nation. An elegant
weapon, a mithral tree does somewhat resemble a tree; its
fanned stock and long, sweeping barrel reinforced with
metal rings enable a wielder to parry melee attacks while
moving back into safe firing range.
Pepperbox: This weapon is a specialty of the smiths
of Alkenstar. The pepperbox has three barrels that each
hold a single shot, and the shooter can manually rotate
the whole barrel assembly to align a loaded barrel with
the firing mechanism.
Reinforced Stock: A reinforced stock is a weighted
crossbow, firearm haft, or grip customized for striking
in melee.
Slide Pistol: Also known as a harmonica gun,
this weapon is essentially a stock, trigger, and firing
mechanism attached to a sliding brace of barrels that can
each hold a round of ammunition.
153
153
Slide Pistol
