Introduction
Gears
Characters
Gears
Equipment
Guns
Characters
Guns
Equipment
The Rotating
Gear
Glossary
And Index
Guns &
GEARS
HUNTER AUTOMATON
You were designed to serve as a scout or assassin and
have a body resembling a pack hunter like a large cat
or wolf. Though you typically move like a quadruped,
you can still stand and fight like a biped,
allowing you to use all equipment
normally. Your quadruped design allows
you to move quickly; if you have both
hands free, you can increase your Speed to
30 feet as you run on all fours.
MAGE AUTOMATON
The chamber housing your core has a more
direct connection to the rest of your humanoid
shape, allowing you to tap into your core’s magical
energy. You gain one cantrip from the arcane spell
list. You can cast this spell as an arcane innate spell
at will. A cantrip is heightened to a spell level equal to
half your level rounded up.
SHARPSHOOTER AUTOMATON
Your lithe, humanoid shape is designed for speed and
accuracy suitable for ranged combat. You gain the
Automaton Aim action.
AUTOMATON AIM [one-action]
You steady your body and observe the events of the
battlefield to maximize the range of your next shot. You
reduce the penalty for firing into your weapon’s second
range increment from –2 to 0 for the next ranged attack
you make this turn. You can use this action a second
time in the same turn to reduce the penalty from firing
into your weapon’s third range increment from –4 to 0
for the next ranged attack you make this turn.
WARRIOR AUTOMATON
Sporting a bulkier, powerful design, your body has
been designed for combat. You have a bulky, humanoid
shape. The damage die for your fist increases to 1d6
instead of 1d4. You don’t take a penalty when making a
lethal attack with your fist or any other unarmed attack.
Ancestry Feats
The following feats are available to automaton
characters.
1ST LEVEL
AUTOMATON ARMAMENT
FEAT 1
AUTOMATON
You’ve been provided a body part designed for combat.
You gain either a claw or pincer unarmed attack. The claw
deals 1d4 slashing damage, is in the brawling group, and
has the agile, finesse, and unarmed traits. The pincer deals
1d6 piercing damage, is in the brawling group, and has the
grapple and unarmed traits.
ENHANCEMENTS
Automatons are built to receive enhancements and
modifications to their bodies. Many automaton ancestry
feats have an “Enhancement” line that represents a
possible augmentation you can acquire. You don’t gain the
benefits of the enhancement unless you take a feat that
grants you those benefits, such as Lesser Augmentation.
You can only gain the enhancements of a given feat once.
39
39
SHARPSHOOTER Automaton
