No gunslinger’s or arbalist’s repertoire is complete
without a selection of magical ammunition to amplify the
effectiveness and impact of their shots. While many of the
following options are limited to firearm rounds, others
work for a variety of ammunition.
AROMATIC AMMUNITION
ITEM 2
ALCHEMICAL
CONSUMABLE
Price 5 gp
Ammunition any
Activate [one-action] Interact
The components of this ammunition emit a strong smell when
combined during its activation. A creature hit by an activated
aromatic ammunition gains a distinct odor for up to 1 hour or
until the scent is washed off (requiring at least a gallon of water
and 10 minutes of scrubbing). Any creatures within 30 feet
smell the target, allowing even those with a weak sense of smell
to detect its presence, and all creatures gain a +1 item bonus
to Track the affected creature for as long as it has the odor. A
creature that has imprecise or precise scent doubles the range
at which they can detect the target using their scent compared
to the normal range of their scent.
AMMUNITION
AWAKENED METAL SHOT
ITEM 17+
UNCOMMON
CONSUMABLE
EVOCATION
MAGICAL
Ammunition round
Activate [one-action] Interact
These bullets are formed from a liquefied high-grade precious
metal and enchanted to unlock that metal’s true potential. Each
version has a different special effect.
Type awakened adamantine shot; Level 18; Price 3,500 gp
The shot is a high-grade adamantine bullet. The awakened
adamantine breaks through any resistance. The shot ignores
the first 20 resistance a creature has to physical damage,
all damage, or piercing or bludgeoning damage. Against a
golem or creature who already has a resistance bypassed by
adamantine, or a weakness to adamantine, the shot shatters
the target’s defenses, causing them to become flat-footed for 1
minute instead. Because adamantine is uncommon, this version
of awakened metal shot is uncommon even for gunslingers or
other characters with access to uncommon guns and bullets
from this book.
Type awakened cold iron shot; Level 17; Price 2,300 gp
The shot is a high-grade cold iron bullet. The awakened cold iron
attempts to disrupt enchantments the target placed on others’
168
168
