dedication (trait) You must select a feat with this trait to
apply an archetype to your character. CR 219
disarm (weapon trait) You can use this weapon to Disarm
with the Athletics skill even if you don’t have a free hand.
This uses the weapon’s reach (if different from your own)
and adds the weapon’s item bonus to attack rolls (if any)
as an item bonus to the Athletics check. If you critically
fail a check to Disarm using the weapon, you can drop
the weapon to take the effects of a failure instead of a
critical failure. On a critical success, you still need a free
hand if you want to take the item.
divination (trait) The divination school of magic typically
involves obtaining or transferring information, or
predicting events.
divine (trait) This magic comes from the divine tradition,
drawing power from deities or similar sources. Anything
with this trait is magical. CR 299
double barrel (weapon trait) This weapon has two barrels
that are each loaded separately. You can fire both barrels
of a double barrel weapon in a single Strike to increase
the weapon damage die by one step. If the weapon has
the fatal trait, this increases the fatal die by one step. 150
dwarf (trait) A creature with this trait is a member of the
dwarf ancestry. Dwarves are stout folk who often live
underground and typically have darkvision. An ability
with this trait can be used or selected only by dwarves.
An item with this trait is created and used by dwarves.
200–201, CR 34–37, APG 42
effect An effect is the result of an ability, though an ability’s
exact effect is sometimes contingent on the result of a
check or other roll.
electricity (trait) Effects with this trait deal electricity
damage. A creature with this trait has a magical
connection to electricity.
enchantment (trait) Effects and magic items with this trait
are associated with the enchantment school of magic,
typically involving mind control, emotion alteration, and
other mental effects.
evil (trait) Evil effects often manipulate energy from
evil-aligned Outer Planes and are antithetical to good
divine servants or divine servants of good deities. A
creature with this trait is evil in alignment. An ability with
this trait can be selected or used only by evil creatures.
evocation (trait) Effects and magic items with this trait are
associated with the evocation school of magic, typically
involving energy and elemental forces.
exploration (trait) An activity with this trait takes more
than a turn to use, and can usually be used only during
exploration mode. CR 234
fatal aim (weapon trait) It’s possible to hold the stock of
this weapon under one arm so you can fire it with a
single hand, but if you use both hands, the weapon can
make fatal attacks. When you wield the weapon in two
hands, it gains the fatal trait with the listed damage die.
Holding the weapon underarm stably enough to fire is
significantly more complicated than just releasing one
hand from the weapon, so switching between the two
grips requires its own Interact action, not via Releasing
or as part of reloading. 150
finesse (weapon trait) You can use your Dexterity modifier
instead of your Strength modifier on attack rolls using
this melee weapon. You still use your Strength modifier
when calculating damage.
fire (trait) Effects with the fire trait deal fire damage or
either conjure or manipulate fire. Those that manipulate
fire have no effect in an area without fire. Creatures
with this trait consist primarily of fire or have a magical
connection to that element.
firearm Firearms are a new category of ranged weapons
presented in this book that typically, but not always, use
black powder ammunition.
	 classic firearms 150–153
	 fantasy firearms 154–167
firing mechanism (item) Firing mechanisms are a type of
item that can be attached to a firearm. Only one firing
mechanism can be attached to a weapon at a time.
183–184
flourish (trait) Flourish actions are actions that require too
much exertion to perform a large number in a row. You
can use only 1 action with the flourish trait per turn.
force (trait) Effects with this trait deal force damage or
create objects made of pure magical force.
forceful (weapon trait) This weapon becomes more
dangerous as you build momentum. When you attack
with it more than once on your turn, the second attack
gains a circumstance bonus to damage equal to the
number of weapon damage dice, and each subsequent
attack gains a circumstance bonus to damage equal to
double the number of weapon damage dice.
fortune (trait) A fortune effect beneficially alters how you
roll your dice. You can never have more than one fortune
effect alter a single roll. If multiple fortune effects would
apply, you have to pick which to use. If a fortune effect
and a misfortune effect would apply to the same roll, the
two cancel each other out, and you roll normally.
232
232
