Introduction
Gears
Characters
Gears
Equipment
Guns
Characters
Guns
Equipment
The Rotating
Gear
Glossary
And Index
Guns &
GEARS
at the start of your next turn. On a successful second save,
the controlled condition ends, though any other effects
remain. As normal, failing this second save doesn’t allow
you to attempt a third save on the subsequent turn.
ABILITY BOOSTS
5TH
At 5th level and every 5 levels thereafter, you boost four
different ability scores. You can use these ability boosts to
increase your ability scores above 18. Boosting an ability
score increases it by 1 if it’s already 18 or above, or by 2
if it starts out below 18.
ANCESTRY FEATS
5TH
In addition to the ancestry feat you started with, you gain
an ancestry feat at 5th level and every 4 levels thereafter.
GUNSLINGER WEAPON MASTERY
5TH
You fully understand the best way to utilize your unique
weapons. Your proficiency rank increases to master
with simple and martial firearms and crossbows. Your
proficiency rank for advanced firearms and crossbows,
simple weapons, martial weapons, and unarmed attacks
increases to expert. You gain access to the critical
specialization effects for firearms and crossbows.
VIGILANT SENSES
7TH
Through your adventures, you’ve developed keen
awareness and attention to detail. Your proficiency rank
for Perception increases to master.
WEAPON SPECIALIZATION
7TH
You’ve learned how to inflict greater injuries with the
weapons you know best. You deal 2 additional damage
with weapons and unarmed attacks in which you are an
expert. This damage increases to 3 if you’re a master, and
4 if you’re legendary.
ADVANCED DEED
9TH
You’ve learned a powerful new technique of your chosen
way. You gain the advanced deed ability of the way you
chose at 1st level.
GUNSLINGER EXPERTISE
9TH
Your special shots become harder for opponents to predict
or resist. Your proficiency rank for your gunslinger class
DC increases to expert.
EVASION
11TH
You’ve learned to move quickly to avoid explosions,
dragon’s breath, and worse. Your proficiency rank for
Reflex saves increases to master. When you roll a success
on a Reflex save, you get a critical success instead.
GUNSLINGING LEGEND
13TH
You’ve learned unique techniques for wielding firearms
and crossbows that give you unmatched skill in their use.
KEY TERMS
You’ll see the following key terms in a number of
gunslinger abilities.
Flourish: Flourish actions are actions that require too
much exertion to perform a large number in a row. You
can use only 1 action with the flourish trait per turn.
Misfire: Firearms that are improperly maintained or
subjected to unusual strain can misfire. If you attempt
to fire a firearm that was fired the previous day or
earlier and hasn’t been cleaned since, roll a DC 5 flat
check before making your attack roll. If you fail this
misfire check, the weapon misfires and jams. The attack
is an automatic critical failure, and you must use an
Interact action to clear the jam before the weapon can
be reloaded and fired again. Once you’ve spent at least
an hour cleaning a weapon, you don’t need to roll for a
misfire until the next day unless an effect says otherwise.
You can clean multiple firearms during this hour, up to a
reasonable limit as determined by the GM (typically no
more than five).
Some abilities cause a weapon to misfire as a part of
their effects. If such a misfire happens as a result of an
attack (due to an action that causes a misfire on a failed
attack, for example), it retroactively makes the attack a
critical failure.
Your proficiency rank increases to legendary with simple
and martial firearms and crossbows and to master with
advanced firearms and crossbows. Your proficiency rank
for simple weapons, martial weapons, and unarmed
attacks increases to expert.
MEDIUM ARMOR EXPERTISE
13TH
You’ve learned to defend yourself better against attacks.
Your proficiency ranks for light armor, medium armor,
and unarmored defense increase to expert.
GREATER DEED
15TH
You’ve mastered the pinnacle technique of your chosen
way. You gain the greater deed ability of the way you
chose at 1st level.
GREATER WEAPON SPECIALIZATION
15TH
Your damage from weapon specialization increases to 4
with weapons and unarmed attacks in which you’re an
expert, 6 if you’re a master, and 8 if you’re legendary.
JUGGERNAUT
17TH
Your body has become accustomed to physical hazards and
resistant to ailments. Your proficiency rank for Fortitude
saves increases to master. When you roll a success on a
Fortitude save, you get a critical success instead.
SHOOTIST’S EDGE
17TH
You make shots others find impossible. Your proficiency
107
107
