Introduction
Gears
Gears
Equipment
Gunslingers
and
Shootists
Guns and
Black
Powder
Equipment
Guns and
Gears on
Golarion
Glossary
and Index
Guns &
GEARS
CLOCKWORK MEGAPHONE
ITEM 1
UNCOMMON
CLOCKWORK
Bulk 1
Price 15 gp
A clockwork megaphone uses cunning clockwork gears to
adjust the shape and angle of the cone within the megaphone,
allowing you to raise or lower the volume, widen or contract
the angle in which you project your voice, or both at the same
time. This makes a clockwork megaphone far more useful
than an ordinary megaphone for situations where you want
to make sure that everyone in a particular venue or location
can hear you without being so loud that your voice comes
across as a painful shout. It takes 1 minute to wind up a
clockwork megaphone, which allows it to remain active for up
to 1 hour of adjustments, only counting the time you change
the megaphone’s settings, not the time you spend speaking.
Since it automatically enters standby mode when not in use,
this typically means you don’t have to wind up the clockwork
megaphone for months, or even years, depending on how
often you adjust the settings each day.
DAY GOGGLES
ITEM 2
UNCOMMON
Price 30 gp
Usage worn eyepiece; Bulk L
The darkened lenses of these goggles protect sensitive eyes
from bright light but make seeing in the dark more difficult.
While wearing day goggles, you gain a +1 item bonus to
saving throws against visual light effects. However, while
wearing the goggles, you take a –2 item penalty to visual
Perception checks and you treat areas of bright light as dim
light and areas of dim light as darkness for the purpose of
whether you can see. While this is normally a disadvantage,
if you have light blindness, you aren’t dazzled in bright light
as long as you continue wearing the day goggles, since to
your eyes, there is only dim light. You can wear the goggles
around your neck or on your forehead, granting no benefits,
but allowing you to move them over your eyes with a single
Interact action, without having to withdraw them first.
ELECTROCABLE
ITEM 3
RARE
ELECTRICITY
FIRE
Price 45 gp
Usage held in 2 hands; Bulk L
This footlong length of conductive cable is capped on both
ends by grounded handles containing Stasian coils. These coils
can be turned on or off as a single action. While on, the coils
electrify the cable, dealing 1d6 electricity and 1d6 fire damage
in a thin precise line to anything the cable touches, though the
cable is too unwieldy to use as a weapon. Electrocables are
typically used to “cut” a thin straight line through metal. They
ignore 10 points of a metal object’s hardness.
EXTENDABLE PINCER
ITEM 0
UNCOMMON
CLOCKWORK
Price 2 gp
Usage held in 2 hands; Bulk L
This extendable rod features a pincer on one end and clamped
handle on the other. By squeezing the handle, the pincer opens
or closes. As an Interact action, you can extend or retract the
rod by 5 feet to one of three settings, allowing you to Interact to
pick up an object with the pincer either within your own space,
in an adjacent space, or exactly 10 feet away.
HEATED CLOAK
ITEM 5
UNCOMMON
Price 160 gp
Usage worn cloak; Bulk L
This fine cloak is lined with tiny tubes of slowly reacting
alchemical reagents. These chemicals generate heat, which is
circulated throughout the cloak by the wearer’s movements.
While active, the wearer is protected from severe cold. The
cloak offers no protection from extreme or incredible cold. It
operates for 24 hours and can be reset with a simple process
that takes 1 minute.
HOLY STEAM BALL
ITEM 2
UNCOMMON
DIVINE
ENCHANTMENT
MENTAL
GOOD
Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk L
Price 30 gp; 2 gp per refill
Activate [one-action] Interact
The holy steam ball is an odd-looking device that’s
nevertheless effective at reinforcing its user’s mind against
fiendish control. It’s a hollow black-rubber ball with small,
flexible twin tubes sticking out from its center. Sealed within
the rubber ball is vapor made from a mixture of evaporated
holy water and a special type of incense smoke. The tube’s
twin prongs are placed into the user’s nostrils, after which
the user squeezes the rubber ball to activate the device,
forcing the vapor into the user’s body through their nose.
The holy power contained within the vapor strengthens the
user’s will against creatures that are weak to holy water,
making it tougher for malevolent creatures to subvert the
user’s mind.
When the holy steam ball was first introduced in Mendev
fifty years ago, few trusted it’s efficacy. The nation had seen
many charlatans peddle so-called “anti-demon” products, and
most thought this was no different. Only when soldiers of the
Mendevian Crusades used the ball and personally testified
to its effectiveness did suspicion gave way to enthusiastic
use. Nobody remembers who first invented the holy steam
ball; they’re likely lost to history because most initially
thought it was a scam. After receiving endorsement from
the Mendevian Crusade, a team of alchemists and inventors
were able to determine the vapor’s exact composition and
mass produce them. The holy steam ball’s highly specialized
purpose kept it from widespread use outside of the nations
that once bordered the Worldwound. Yet with the return of
the Whispering Tyrant in the past few years, the growing
undead threat presents a new opportunity for more citizens
to use holy steam balls for protection against the mind
control powers of vampires and other undead.
87
87
