Introduction
Gears
Characters
Gears
Equipment
Guns
Characters
Guns
Equipment
The Rotating
Gear
Glossary
And Index
Guns &
GEARS
In recent years, a small number of Stasian coils, named
for their rumored link with the arrival and ascension of
Queen Anastasia, have trickled into Ustalav from the icy
realm of Irrisen. Although this strange new technology
is perilous and poorly understood, it has become highly
sought after in the nation’s principalities, where some
believe it may hold the key to driving back the Whispering
Tyrant’s forces—or at least escaping them. As has always
been true in Ustalav, others use these new devices to
pursue morbid lines of research in pursuit of their own
eccentric ends.
The eerie violet or blue lightning of Stasian coils
has led to many innovations: some purely scientific,
others hybridized with magic. Spirit-singers, galvaheart
zombies, and airships rowed by the dismembered arms
of the dead are but a sampling of the creations that have
arisen. Though a predictable backlash has begun among
the more superstitious citizens, this has done little to dim
the excitement—or the desperation—with which others
have seized onto the potential of these devices. You
can find more information on the mechanics of Stasian
technology on page 82.
For those willing to steal or smuggle Stasian coils out
of Irrisen, and then risk doing business with Ustalav’s
volatile inventors and treacherous aristocrats, the rewards
can be great. So, however, is the danger.
SOURCING STASIAN COILS
No one knows—or at least, no one will admit to
knowing—the precise source of Stasian coils in Irrisen.
Only the thinnest trickle of technology escapes Irrisen’s
frozen grasp, and much of what makes its way into
Ustalav is rust coated and half-broken by the time it
gets there. Even so, a few smugglers can procure these
goods, though almost none deal in them with any sort
of regularity.
One of those rare dealers is Vaskili Demarr, a river
pirate who has carved out a niche in Stasian coils and
counterfeits. He deals in authentic pieces often enough
to have established a regular clientele among the
knowledgeable but is quick to sell fakes to less discerning
buyers. Vaskili is not especially well versed in the
technology and often stores pieces incorrectly, sometimes
causing significant damage. Nevertheless, so long as
USTALAV: SPARK AND SHADOW
225
225
