Introduction
Gears
Characters
Gears
Equipment
Guns
Characters
Guns
Equipment
The Rotating
Gear
Glossary
And Index
Guns &
GEARS
5TH LEVEL
ARCANE SAFEGUARDS
FEAT 5
AUTOMATON
The magic powering you makes it difficult for outside magic
to affect you. You gain the Resist Magic reaction.
Enhancement Your safeguards improve. When you Resist
Magic, you gain a number of temporary Hit Points equal to
the spell level of the triggering effect.
RESIST MAGIC [reaction]
Trigger You attempt a saving throw against a harmful
magical effect but haven’t rolled yet.
Your innate magic protects you. You gain a +1 circumstance
bonus to the triggering saving throw. Additionally, if the
triggering effect is arcane, if you roll a success, you get a
critical success instead.
INTEGRATED ARMAMENT
FEAT 5
AUTOMATON
Your mechanical body houses a weapon or shield that you
can quickly draw and stow, leaving you prepared for combat
at all times.
You can use a 1-minute activity, which has the manipulate
trait, to integrate a single, one-handed weapon or shield into
one of your arms. You can draw or stow this item as an Interact
action. Creatures don’t automatically see this integrated item
when it’s stowed and must actively Seek in order to find it. They
take a –2 circumstance penalty to any checks to do so. While
you are wielding the item, it can’t be Disarmed and you can’t
drop or Release it; you must Interact to store the weapon and
free that hand. A creature determined to retrieve the item can
do so, but it requires either 1 minute to remove it or extreme
violence to your arm—such as physically removing portions
of the limb. You can only have one integrated armament at a
time, though you can use the 1-minute activity to replace the
item or swap the arm in which it’s stored.
Enhancement Your body has more space for integration.
You can now either integrate two one-handed weapons, a
one-handed weapon and a shield, or a single two-handed
weapon which is split across both arms. You can use a single
Interact action to draw or store both integrated armaments.
When you draw a single weapon, you can choose to hold it
with either one hand or both hands.
MAGICAL RESISTANCE
FEAT 5
AUTOMATON
Your animating magic provides some defense. Choose one of
the following energy damage types: cold, electricity, or sonic.
You gain resistance 5 to that damage type.
Enhancement You tap deeper into your animating magic,
and your resistances improve. Choose one of the following
benefits: you gain resistance 5 to the remaining two damage
types from the above list, or your chosen resistance increases
to a value equal to 1 + half your level.
9TH LEVEL
ARCANE CAMOUFLAGE
FEAT 9
AUTOMATON
Prerequisites hunter automaton
You have developed magical techniques to aid you with
stalking your prey. You can cast blur and invisibility each
once per day as 2nd-level arcane innate spells.
Enhancement Your camouflage is more potent. Your blur
spell now lasts 10 minutes and when you cast invisibility,
you can choose to gain the effects of the 4th-level version of
the spell. In addition, you can now cast blur and invisibility
each twice per day.
ARCANE PROPULSION [two-actions]
FEAT 9
ARCANE
AUTOMATON
TRANSMUTATION
Frequency once per day
You redirect energy from your core to ports on your back or
feet, allowing you to fly for a short time. You can maintain
this redirected energy for 5 minutes. You gain a fly Speed
equal to your Speed while redirecting the energy.
Enhancement You can maintain your flight for longer.
You can redirect your energy at all times, allowing you to
fly whenever you want, rather than just once per day for
5 minutes.
ARCANE SLAM [two-actions]
FEAT 9
AUTOMATON
Prerequisites warrior automaton
Requirements You have a creature grabbed or restrained.
You channel magical power from your core into your arm,
empowering your attack as you attempt to slam your foe
into the ground. Attempt an Athletics check against the
foe’s Fortitude DC. You take a –2 circumstance penalty to
your check if the target is one size larger than you and a –4
circumstance penalty if it’s larger than that. You gain a +2
circumstance bonus to your check if the target is one size
smaller than you and a +4 circumstance bonus if it’s smaller
than that.
AUTOMATON ADVENTURERS
Many who became automatons had some role in society
prior to their transformation and often gravitate toward
classes that best represent these roles, even if they
no longer remember their former life as more than
subconscious flashes. Hunter, sharpshooter, and warrior
automatons usually become fighters, rangers, and
rogues. Spell casting classes, such as bards, witches, and
wizards are common among mage automatons. While
an automaton can have any background, the pool of
individuals chosen to become automatons were typically
of the acolyte, bounty hunter, emissary, gladiator, guard,
herbalist, hunter, martial disciple, scholar, scout, or
warrior background.
4141
