Type greater chameleon suit; Level 8; Price 80 gp
The effect lasts for 10 minutes.
Type major chameleon suit; Level 12; Price 320 gp
The effect lasts for 1 hour.
CLOCKWORK GOGGLES
ITEM 1+
UNCOMMON
CLOCKWORK
CONSUMABLE
GADGET
Usage worn eyepiece; Bulk L
Activate [two-actions] Interact
This heavy set of mechanical goggles contains a variety of
different lenses for different situations, including lenses
that filter light at different intensities and frequencies and
even some that capture heat and other stimuli. Clockwork
mechanisms can swap between the lenses rapidly as needed.
However, many of these lenses can only capture a single
stimulus once and then are forever etched with it, making
them unsuitable for long-term use. When activated, the
clockwork mechanism on the goggles rapidly switches
between the different lenses, granting you the benefits of all
of them for a brief period of time.
Type clockwork goggles; Level 1; Price 3 gp
When activated, you gain low-light vision for 10 minutes.
Type greater clockwork goggles; Level 4; Price 15 gp
When activated, you gain low-light vision and darkvision for
10 minutes.
Type major clockwork goggles; Level 8; Price 80 gp
When activated, you gain low-light vision, darkvision, and
the effects of see invisibility for 10 minutes.
CRYOMISTER
ITEM 1+
UNCOMMON
COLD
CONSUMABLE
GADGET
Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk L
Activate [one-action] Interact
When you Activate a cryomister, you can either place it in
an adjacent square or toss it up to 20 feet away. Once you’ve
done so, the metallic device instantly disperses a heavy mist,
settling quickly on nearby flat surfaces and forming a sheet
of ice. The cryomister creates a burst with a radius depending
on the type, making the affected area difficult terrain for
1 minute; , at the GM’s discretion, however, this duration
might be reduced in unusually hot conditions or increased in
unusually cold ones. If an affected square takes fire damage,
the difficult terrain is removed. Though not designed as a
weapon, the cryomister’s rapidly cooling mist deals cold
splash damage depending on the type to creatures in the
area on activation. Creatures attempting to move through
the affected area can attempt an Acrobatics check with a
DC depending on the type to ignore the difficult terrain and
move at their normal Speed. Throwing the cryomister onto
the surface of a liquid creates a floating piece of ice for the
same duration, capable of supporting one or more creatures
of the listed size.
Type lesser; Level 1; Price 3 gp
The area is a 5-foot burst, the Acrobatics DC is 17, and the
cold splash damage is 1. The floating ice can support one
creature up to Medium size.
Type moderate; Level 5; Price 25 gp
The area is a 10-foot burst, the Acrobatics DC is 21, and the
cold splash damage is 3. The floating ice can support one
Large creature or two Medium or smaller creatures.
Type greater; Level 11; Price 250 gp
The area is a 15-foot burst, the Acrobatics DC is 30, and the
cold splash damage is 5. The floating ice can support one
Huge creature, two Large creatures, or four Medium or
smaller creatures.
Type major; Level 17; Price 2,500 gp
The area is a 20-foot burst, the Acrobatics DC is 39, and
the cold splash damage is 8. The floating ice can support
one Gargantuan creature, two Huge creatures, four Large
creatures, or eight Medium or smaller creatures. The ice can’t
support Gargantuan creatures larger than a 20-by-20-foot
space, such as a mu spore.
ELECTROMUSCULAR STIMULATOR
ITEM 5
RARE
CONSUMABLE
GADGET
Price 30 gp
Usage worn; Bulk 1
Activate [two-actions] Interact
This rare gadget uses Stasian technology to grant someone
a burst of activity, though its use can be painful. The
electromuscular stimulator must be carefully attached
to you, requiring 1 minute to do so. You can attach an
electromuscular stimulator to yourself. When you Activate
an attached electromuscular stimulator, roll a Crafting check,
using the Crafting modifier of the creature who attached the
stimulator to you, with a DC equal to the standard DC for
your level. The effects of the activation depend on the result
of the Crafting check.
Critical Success You gain the quickened condition for 1
minute and can use the extra action each round only to
Stride or Strike.
Success As critical success, but you also take 3 persistent
electrical damage.
Failure You gain the quickened condition for 2 rounds and
can use the extra action each round only to Stride or
Strike. You take 3 persistent electrical damage.
Critical Failure You take 2d6 electrical damage and 3
persistent electrical damage.
ETHERIC ESSENCE DISRUPTOR
ITEM 3+
UNCOMMON
CONSUMABLE
GADGET
Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk 1
Activate [two-actions] Interact
An etheric essence disruptor emits bursts of discordant
ethereal energy through a process based upon Stasian
etheric-spirit singers, though without the need for a Stasian
coil. Etheric essence disruptors attempt to break down the
workings of a spell that manipulates spiritual essence. Upon
activation, attempt to counteract an active divine or occult
spell within the listed range, with the listed counteract
modifier and counteract level.
Type lesser; Level 3; Price 60 gp
68
68
