Introduction
Gears
Gears
Equipment
Gunslingers
and
Shootists
Guns and
Black
Powder
Equipment
Guns and
Gears on
Golarion
Glossary
and Index
Guns &
GEARS
manors’ interior decorations. In such circles, ostentatious
decorations that serve no functional purpose are derided as
“tacky” and “unrefined.” If a noble in such company wishes
not to be ridiculed, they must be sure that each decoration
adds something to the room beyond the aesthetic. The
aquarium lamp is the latest tool in this social arms race,
and it’s already proven popular with its target market.
When active, the aquarium lamp produces bright light in
a 60-foot radius (and dim light for the next 60 feet). Each
activation provides enough energy for 10 minutes of use,
and the two feeding tanks combined carry enough prey
animals for 50 activations before needing to be refilled,
though electric eels usually need feeding only once per
day, and won’t go after the prey if they’re all full. While
electric eels are not aggressive to their aquarium keepers
and will gradually learn to associate them with food, they
can engage in violent social behavior, especially when they
are young. This behavior leads to small fights involving
tail slapping, biting, and discharged electricity, the last of
which causes the lamp to illuminate without hitting the
lever to release prey. The electric eels live around 15 years
if kept well-fed.
CLOCKWORK BOOKSHELF
ITEM 1
UNCOMMON
CLOCKWORK
Bulk 4
Price 15 gp
This device was originally created by an inventor who had
way more books they wanted to access than available wall
space to store them. Each of the bookshelf’s six levels is
actually loaded with a pair of shelves instead of a single
shelf. A simple switch on the side of the bookshelf flips the
corresponding shelf to the other side, revealing any books
stored in the paired shelf. While this makes the clockwork
bookshelf a little deeper than a normal bookshelf, in order
to fit both shelves, it effectively allows you to store twice
as many books using the same amount of wall space. Those
who wish to keep volumes hidden from visitors (or perhaps
stow a weapon or potion within a false book) often load the
hidden shelf first, then switch to the second shelf lined with
more respectable volumes.
CLOCKWORK BOX PACKER
ITEM 3
UNCOMMON
CLOCKWORK
Bulk 4
Price 50 gp
This handy clockwork device is too expensive for most
warehouses and shipping docks to make use of it, but some
nobles have purchased the item for their staff as a status
symbol, and merchants who are in the shipping trade can
afford to slowly reap the benefits of its usage. It takes 1
minute to wind a clockwork box packer; after which, it can
function for up to 1 hour.
You can indicate how high you want the clockwork
box packer to stack boxes and what the packing storage
dimensions are. Once packing instructions have been input,
you can load a crate onto the clockwork box packer, and it
begins its task. Once the box is stacked, the clockwork box
packer closes the box, if necessary, then ties a ribbon or cord
around it from a supply loaded into the clockwork box packer
in advance. Once the package is secure, the clockwork box
packer stacks it and then swivels back into position, ready
to accept another box. In this way, the clockwork device can
finish within minutes a packing job that might take humanoid
workers an hour.
CLOCKWORK DISGUISE
ITEM 6
UNCOMMON
CLOCKWORK
Usage worn armor; Bulk 2
Price 200 gp
Sometimes, just disguising one’s face just isn’t convincing
enough. Clockwork disguises were invented to supplement
regular disguise kits, which are used all across Golarion. For
example, if a spy wants to infiltrate a military camp, they
must be wearing the same type of armor as the soldiers
stationed there—or else have a very good explanation for
their commander as to why they’re out of proper uniform!
The clockwork disguise is intended to help avoid such
awkward, potentially fatal confrontations.
The clockwork disguise looks like a harness connected
to hundreds of small metal plates that cover the user’s
torso and arms. Each of these plates is equipped with
several hinges, allowing them to be shaped into a wide
variety of patterns. When these shaped plates are
arranged and connected, they can be made to look like
almost any basic suit of light or medium metal armor,
though armor embellishments such as those worn by high-
ranking officers are beyond this device. The arrangement
process takes some time, but once it’s completed, the
user need only perform a few simple adjustments to a
clockwork mechanism in the disguise to make the plate
arrangement into a new preset configuration. Afterwards,
when the user flips a switch on the harness’s belt to one
of three positions, the plates shift, overlap, and connect
as necessary to transform the disguise into the desired
preset configuration. The clockwork disguise can have up
to three preset configurations at a time, and most users use
a minimum of two: the one required for their current task,
and a suitably inconspicuous configuration for when the
first configuration is unnecessary.
Giving a clockwork disguise a new preset configuration
requires 20 minutes of work. The clockwork disguise can
have a maximum of three preset configurations at a time,
and it can only mimic light and medium armor suits made
of metal.
The clockwork disguise is light armor and has the following
stats, regardless of which type of armor it mimics:
AC Bonus +2; Dex Cap +3; Check Penalty –1; Strength 12;
Group plate
Activate [one-action] Interact; Effect Transform the clockwork
disguise into any one current preset configuration of the
user’s choice.
85
85
