Introduction
Gears
Characters
Gears
Equipment
Guns
Characters
Guns
Equipment
The Rotating
Gear
Glossary
And Index
Guns &
GEARS
Rather than just using your gadgets for various boosts and
tweaks, you also craft a few specific temporary consumable
gadgets each day. You gain the formulas for three common
or uncommon gadgets (page 66). Each day during your daily
preparations, you can create two temporary gadgets from
your formula book. Gadgets prepared in this way don’t cost
you any resources to Craft and don’t have any sale value. They
are temporary items and fall apart the next time you make
your daily preparations if you haven’t already used them.
If you’re a master in Crafting, you can create three gadgets
per day, and you gain three additional common or uncommon
gadget formulas. If you’re legendary in Crafting, you can create
four gadgets per day, and you gain another additional three
common or uncommon gadget formulas, for a total of nine.
MEGATON STRIKE [two-actions]
FEAT 4
INVENTOR
Prerequisites armor, construct, or weapon innovation
You activate gears, explosives, and other hidden mechanisms
in your innovation to make a powerful attack. You make a
Strike, dealing an extra die of weapon damage. If you’re at
least 10th level, increase this to two extra dice, and if you’re
at least 18th level, increase it to three extra dice. The type of
Strike you can make depends on your innovation.
•	 Armor You Strike with a melee unarmed attack or a
melee weapon. To use a melee weapon for this, you must
have prepared it in advance with special contraptions
when you make your daily preparations.
•	 Construct Your minion innovation Strikes.
•	 Weapon You Strike with your weapon innovation.
Unstable Function You put even more force into the Strike,
though you risk stress fractures to your innovation. Add the
unstable trait to Megaton Strike. The Strike deals another
extra damage die, for a total of two extra dice at 4th level,
three at 10th level, and four at 18th level.
Special If your innovation is a minion, it can take this action
rather than you.
6TH LEVEL
CLOCKWORK CELERITY [free-action]
FEAT 6
INVENTOR
MANIPULATE
UNSTABLE
Prerequisites armor, construct, or weapon innovation
Trigger Your turn begins.
You can use unstable clockwork devices in your innovation to
push your invention to act more quickly. You are quickened
for this turn. How you can use the extra action depends on
your innovation.
•	 Armor You can use the extra action to Step, Stride, or use
another movement action granted by your innovation
(such as Swim if you have the Diving Armor feat).
•	 Construct You can use the extra action to Command your
construct innovation (or to provide 1 of the actions if you
spend 2 actions to Command your construct).
•	 Weapon You can use the extra action to Strike with your
innovation or Reload your innovation.
CONSTRUCT SHELL
FEAT 6
INVENTOR
Prerequisites construct innovation
You’ve adjusted your construct innovation so that when you
ride it, special plates, hollows, or similar form partial barriers
around you to add additional protection. You have lesser cover
from all attacks when mounted on your construct innovation,
not just from attacks where the construct would be in the way.
Additionally, if your construct uses an emanation while you’re
riding on it, such as Explode, you can choose not to be affected
by the emanation.
MEGAVOLT [two-actions]
FEAT 6
ELECTRICITY
INVENTOR
MANIPULATE
You bleed off some electric power from your innovation in the
shape of a damaging bolt. Creatures in a 20-foot line from your
innovation take 3d4 electricity damage, with a basic Reflex
save against your class DC. The electricity damage increases
by 1d4 at 8th level and every 2 levels thereafter.
Unstable Function You overload and supercharge the
voltage even higher. Add the unstable trait to Megavolt. The
area increases to a 60-foot line and the damage increases from
d4s to d12s.
If you have the breakthrough innovation class feature, you
can choose a 60-foot or 90-foot line for the area when you
use an unstable Megavolt; if you also have the revolutionary
innovation class feature, you can choose a 60-foot, 90-foot, or
120-foot line.
Special If your innovation is a minion, it can take this action
rather than you.
VISUAL FIDELITY
FEAT 6
INVENTOR
You’ve found a way to use a hodgepodge combination of
devices to enhance your visual abilities in every situation. You
gain darkvision and low-light vision, and you can see invisible
creatures and objects as translucent shapes, though these
shapes are indistinct enough to be concealed to you.
If an effect would give you the blinded condition, the effect
must attempt a counteract check against your class DC, with
your counteract level equaling half your level, rounded up. On
a failed counteract check, you aren’t blinded—your various
devices are able to compensate.
8TH LEVEL
GIGATON STRIKE
FEAT 8
INVENTOR
Prerequisites Megaton Strike
When you use a full-power Megaton Strike, you can knock
your foe back. When you succeed at your Strike while using
an unstable Megaton Strike, your target must attempt a
Fortitude save against your class DC.
Critical Success The creature is unaffected.
Success The creature is pushed back 5 feet.
Failure The creature is pushed back 10 feet.
27
27
