Introduction
Gears
Characters
Gears
Equipment
Guns
Characters
Guns
Equipment
The Rotating
Gear
Glossary
And Index
Guns &
GEARS
2d4 rounds, or until it Escapes against a DC of 18. On a critical
hit, the target is also immobilized until it Escapes.
METEOR SHOT
ITEM 7+
UNCOMMON
CONSUMABLE
EVOCATION
FIRE
MAGICAL
SPLASH
Ammunition round
Activate [one-action] Interact
This craggy stone ammunition is warm to the touch. When you
fire an activated meteor shot, it explodes into a small swarm
of meteors as it reaches its target, scorching nearby creatures
and littering the ground with rubble. In addition to the weapon’s
normal damage, the meteor shot deals fire damage and the
ground in the area becomes difficult terrain.
In addition, the Strike gains the following critical failure effect.
Critical Failure The weapon misfires.
Type meteor shot; Level 7; Price 70 gp
The ammunition deals 3d6 fire damage in a 5-foot emanation
around the target (DC 23 basic Reflex save).
Type greater meteor shot; Level 12; Price 400 gp
The ammunition deals 6d6 fire damage in a 10-foot emanation
around the target (DC 29 basic Reflex save).
Type major meteor shot; Level 17; Price 3,000 gp
The ammunition deals 9d6 fire damage in a 20-foot emanation
around the target (DC 37 basic Reflex save).
SILENCING SHOT
ITEM 11
CONSUMABLE
ILLUSION
MAGICAL
Price 300 gp
Ammunition any
Activate [one-action] envision
This
shimmering,
golden-hued
ammunition
never
makes
any
sound. A creature hit by a silencing
shot is subject to the effects of a
4th-level silence spell (DC 25).
Craft Requirements Supply one casting of
silence at 4th level.
STEPPING STONE SHOT
ITEM 7+
UNCOMMON
CONSUMABLE
MAGICAL
TRANSMUTATION
Ammunition round
Activate [one-action] envision, Interact
A series of small stone discs pressed into a single round
make up this ammunition. When you fire an activated
stepping stone shot, whether you hit or miss your target,
the shot creates a series of supports in a line that creatures
can walk on as if solid ground. The line can ascend or
descend at a 45-degree angle. The discs support any
amount of weight, but don’t otherwise pose any sort of
obstacle; creatures and attacks can move through them if
they wish. They crumble to dust if anything attempts to
move or otherwise manipulate them. A creature can use
a two-action activity, which has the manipulate trait, to
Stride up to its speed on the stones while causing them
to crumble behind it. This ammunition does not work in
firearms with the scatter trait. The maximum length of
the line depends on the type of ammunition. However, the
line also can’t extend beyond the maximum distance for
a Strike from your firearm (usually six times the firearm’s
range increment).
Type stepping stone shot; Level 7; Price 65 gp
The stones reach up to 100 feet, and they last
up to the end of your next turn if no one
collapses them.
Type greater stepping stone shot;
Level 10; Price 185 gp
The stones reach up to 250 feet, and
they last up to 1 minute if no one
collapses them.
TRUSTWORTHY ROUND
ITEM 3
CONSUMABLE
DIVINATION
MAGICAL
Price 9 gp
Ammunition any
Activate [free-action] command
This ammunition was developed in Dongun Hold to
minimize casualties to friendly fire, and is always
marked by a burnished copper head or tip so it can be
easily identified. Before you can fire a trustworthy round,
you must call out a target. You don’t need to specify a
name; the target could be “The angry tiger attacking our
group on the left.” The round will only hit the specified
target and will turn to gossamer dust midair if it misses
the intended target or comes into contact with anything
else; this also prevents abilities that redirect attacks. The
round doesn’t have any capabilities beyond your own to
determine whether someone is who you think they are, so
you can’t use it to determine a disguised creature’s identity.
If you specify a target of “Seltyiel” and shoot someone
disguised as Seltyiel who you thought was Seltyiel, the
attack will still hit, whereas if you were about to hit a
disguised Seltyiel who you didn’t recognize to be Seltyiel,
the round would dissolve.
FEATHER TOKEN AMMUNITION
One of the more popular and commonly used tools of
adventurers across Golarion are feather tokens (Core
Rulebook 570). Several forms of feather token can be
purchased as ammunition by raising their item level by 2
and doubling the Price, replacing their normal activation
requirement with a Strike from a ranged weapon and
appearing in a space within that weapon’s range. While
not all feather tokens are suitable for use in this way,
the chest, holly bush, ladder, swan boat, and tree tokens
have all been converted into ammunition at one time or
another. While these utilitarian devices are not suitable
for direct offense in combat (a feather token fired into an
occupied space fails to deploy and is wasted), they are
incredibly useful for providing cover where none existed
previously, making a quick escape, or coordinating an
innovative heist.
171
171
Meteor Shot
