Arcadia has had firearms for over 10,000 years, though
of a distinctly different kind than can be found in the
Inner Sea. In the distant days prior to Earthfall—which
struck Arcadia not with huge, devastating meteors but
with a rain of skymetals across the central continent that
gave rise to great heroes and strange magical effects—
legendary figures bore handheld metal tubes powered by
magic that shot pellets of concentrated arcane energy.
Known as star guns or mystic arms, these guns ranged
from one-handed pistols to long rifles. Most star guns
fired white-hot energy that glowed like a star, giving them
their name, but the most ornate weapons could change
the weapon’s energies by means of cunning switches or
even the user’s sheer will.
Arcadian star guns were carried by great heroes of
legend in central and northern Arcadia, often wandering
law-keepers who fought bandits and monsters to ensure
peace. Sometimes, scheming villains wielded these
powerful weapons to further their own wealth and
influence. Janshar Even-Handed, Valliek Rustboots, and
Deft Onki are among these mythical gunslingers. Anyone
with a star gun could inflict devastating damage, and few
knew any equals beyond other wielders. The Star Code
bound all those who carried such weapons: to never
attack an unarmed opponent, to give parley to the weak
who request it, to eschew deceit, to honor the terms of a
duel, to respect one’s star gun, and many more rules that
vary in the retelling. Villainous wielders at least paid lip
service to the Star Code, though their stories of bending
the letter of the code to suit their own ends appear in folk
tales throughout Arcadia.
Creating a star gun required specialized knowledge. The
most notable crafters (and perhaps the only ones) were
a gaunt, isolationist people who inhabited monasteries
high in the Mildanesi Mountains. Imposing and mute,
with stone crowns protruding from their long heads, these
recluses gave no name for themselves but became known
as the Crowned Regents. Despite their mighty magic and
intricate crafts—which were not limited to the fabulous
starguns—the Crowned Regents showed no interest in
ARCADIA:
BEAST GUNS AND SKYMETALS
206
206
