Introduction
Gears
Characters
Gears
Equipment
Guns
Characters
Guns
Equipment
The Rotating
Gear
Glossary
And Index
Guns &
GEARS
DAZZLING BULLET [one-action]
FEAT 6
ARCHETYPE
FLOURISH
Prerequisites Pistol Phenom Dedication
Your tricks discombobulate your opponent, leaving spots in
their vision from the bright flash of your gunshot reflected
straight into their eyes (or other visual organs). Attempt a
Performance check against the target creature’s Will DC and
make a ranged firearm Strike against that target. If the Strike
deals damage to the target creature and you succeed at the
Performance check, the creature is dazzled for 1 round.
HOT FOOT [one-action]
FEAT 8
ARCHETYPE
Prerequisites Pistol Phenom Dedication
Requirements You’re wielding a loaded firearm.
Using a carefully aimed shot, you make a creature “dance.”
You shoot at the ground near a target’s feet, causing
them to react involuntarily; even mindless creatures have
unconscious responses to dodge an attack, and you can
capitalize off those uncontrollable reflexes to achieve your
aim. As they dance to the sweet tune of your pistol’s retort,
you ensure your foe can’t use whatever nasty surprise they
had planned in store for you and your allies. Make an attack
roll against the Reflex DC of a target creature within your
firearm’s first range increment.
Critical Success The creature can’t use reactions, is flat-footed,
and takes a –2 circumstance penalty to Reflex saves. These
effects last until the start of its next turn.
Success The creature can’t use reactions until the start of its
next turn.
PHENOM’S VERVE
FEAT 10
ARCHETYPE
Prerequisites Pistol Phenom Dedication
You’re possessed with an incredibly vivacious spark that
separates you not only from ordinary gun users and
gunslingers, but even from other phenoms. Using that
distinctive verve, when you perform impeccably and control
the scene with your abilities, you also manage to set up your
foes for disaster and ensure they remain in your sights for
any follow-up attacks you want to make against them. If you
critically succeed at a Performance check for Pistol Twirl or a
pistol phenom archetype feat, you gain a +1 status bonus to
your attack rolls with one-handed firearms and one-handed
melee weapons until the end of your turn.
REACH FOR THE SKY [two-actions]
FEAT 12
ARCHETYPE
AUDITORY
VISUAL
Prerequisites Pistol Phenom Dedication
Requirements You’re wielding a loaded firearm.
You command the room, firing a gun into the air and ordering
everyone to surrender and put their hands in the air. You
fire your firearm and then attempt a single Intimidation
check to Demoralize each enemy within 30 feet. Creatures
who become frightened instinctively put their hands in the
air. If they had Raised a Shield, they lose the benefits, as
they raise the shield above their head where it’s of little use
to block attacks. With their hands in the air, each of these
frightened creatures can’t use reactions or free actions that
require their hands, or items held in their hands, until the
beginning of their next turn. Regardless of the result, each
creature is then temporarily immune to Reach for the Sky
for 1 minute.
WHIRLING KNOCKDOWN [two-actions]
FEAT 14
ARCHETYPE
Prerequisites Pistol Phenom Dedication
Requirements You’re wielding a loaded one-handed firearm
and a one-handed melee weapon.
You fire your gun while throwing off a target’s balance with
your melee weapon. Then, you topple your foe to the ground
with the quick orchestrated combination. You don’t need
to use brute force to do so, or even necessarily to hit with
your gunshot; the effect is all about performing perfectly and
eliminating your target’s movements and options, leaving
them no choice but to fall.
Make a ranged firearm Strike against a creature within the
reach of your melee weapon and then attempt a Performance
check against the creature’s Reflex DC. If the Strike critically
succeeds, the target takes a –2 circumstance penalty to its
Reflex DC against this check. The Performance check has the
following effects.
Critical Success The target falls and lands prone. It takes 2d6
bludgeoning damage from the fall.
Success The target falls and lands prone.
Critical Failure Your plans backfired on you, and you’re forced
to drop your melee weapon in your space.
WHAT MAKES A PHENOM?
Many gunslingers can learn how to twirl a pistol or
intimidate a foe, but it’s not just your skills that make
you a phenom, it’s your style and attitude. As a pistol
phenom, you understand how to grab everyone’s
attention with everything you do, especially the way
you talk, the way you walk, and the way you use your
gun. But what’s more, you’re well aware of that fact and
the power you have over others, and you aren’t afraid
to flaunt it.
Despite this attitude, or perhaps because of it, as a pistol
phenom you likely tend to get along well with groups of
allies, understanding both how to take the spotlight to
protect your allies and how to share it to make sure they
get their time in the sun. The one exception to this can be
other pistol phenoms. When two or more pistol phenoms
gather in the same group, it’s almost inevitable for a duel
or other contest to arise. However, such a contest need not
end in enmity. Depending on your temperament, and that
of the other pistol phenom, the result of the exhilarating
rivalry expressed during competition could be a lifelong
friendship, albeit one in which you both keep score of your
greatest achievements to compare exploits.
137
137
