Introduction
Gears
Characters
Gears
Equipment
Guns
Characters
Guns
Equipment
The Rotating
Gear
Glossary
And Index
Guns &
GEARS
symbol of status among the well-appointed in Alkenstar’s
high society, with prosperous merchants and nobles
brandishing their weapons openly to show off garish
gold plating and intricately carved ivory handles. In
the aristocratic Auburn District of the city, a subtrade
has bloomed, focused around designing additions to
firearms and swapping out fashion pieces for when the
styles change or weapons switch owners. This has in
turn helped propel all manner of businesses related to
the customization of firearms, from mounted scopes to
bandoliers with mithral straps.
For the less fortunate of Alkenstar, the quickest
way to obtain a firearm is to enlist as a member of
the city’s primary source of law-enforcement, the
shieldmarshals. Specially armed with black powder
weapons and trained in their use, the shieldmarshals
both maintain order within the City of Smog and watch
its walls for threats from the Mana Wastes. Serving as a
shieldmarshal requires extensive commitment, though
the pay is well above what most beyond the nobility
could expect to earn in any other occupation. Still, the
authority that comes with wielding a destructive weapon
and the weight of upholding the law can pose the potential
for corruptive influence. A great many among the
shieldmarshals have used their positions to jockey for more
influence, extorting common and noble citizens alike. In
4718 AR, an investigation into missing firearms from the
Gunworks exposed over two hundred shieldmarshals who
participated in an organized smuggling ring and criminal
enterprise. The perpetrators were stripped of their rank and
exiled into the Mana Wastes, leaving the shieldmarshals
with a vast shortage of personnel.
Though led in name by Ironmaster Vulane, most
shieldmarshals look to High Shieldmarshal Armand
Meneley (LG male human gunslinger) as their true
commander. Armand holds a seat in Alkenstar’s High
Parliament, where he serves as a check against both the
Grand Duchess and the less scrupulous nobles of the
Parliament. The aging lawman argues with a strong voice
both for the careful dispensation of firearms to protect
the City of Smog and against the ever-growing corruption
in the ranks of the shieldmarshals (something he privately
suspects is due to the Ironmaster’s own illicit dealings).
He also butts heads frequently with Eliza Baratella (NG
female human construct crafter), the designer of the Brass
Guardians that have begun to replace the humanoid
guard of Alkenstar.
The continuous corruption in the ranks of the
shieldmarshals has encouraged Parliament to seek
alternatives, and where there is opportunity to be had in
the city, there are inventors willing to create solutions.
Initially creating her clockwork sentinels to guard
against the mutants that crawl out from the separated
Ironside Quarter, Eliza lobbied for their deployment
throughout the city as supplemental forces. Against
Armand’s strenuous objections, the High Parliament
approved the motion. Over the last decade these entities
have begun to outnumber the living shieldmarshals,
resulting in a typical patrol consisting of multiple
Brass Guardians and a pair of humanoid officers to
communicate and provide directives. Despite their
touted benefits, these limited constructs are not capable
of judging the morality of their orders. Thus, some
corrupt shieldmarshals have been able to bolster their
efforts with imposing clockwork bodyguards who act
decisively with little need for persuasion. Despite reports
of shieldmarshals commanding their clockwork escorts
to destroy property as a means of extortion, Eliza insists
these are isolated incidents that the next update to the
Guardians’ mechanics will rectify.
BRASS GUARDIANS
The creation of magical constructs is exceptionally
difficult and foolishly dangerous within most of
the Mana Wastes, including the Brass Guardians,
clockwork guardians designed to serve Alkenstar as
guards. However, the Skyside half of Alkenstar to the
east has largely normal magical function. The Brass
Guild creates all the automatons in this prosperous
section of the City of Smog before deploying the
enforcers into the magical dead zones. For decades,
this production line has proved effective and functional.
However, in the summer of 4719 AR, complaints of
rogue Brass Guardians began to reach the Guild’s ears.
Investigation of the units showed evidence of rapid
degradation to the magical cortexes of the clockwork
soldiers. Researchers were able to narrow down that
all rogue units had recently patrolled neighborhoods in
Smokeside, magically dead sections of the city. A few
weeks later, the High Parliament received reports of
significant stirring among the mutants of the Wastes.
Not a believer in coincidence, Eliza Baratella, head of
the Brass Guild and creator of the first Brass Guardians,
commissioned a task force of her best engineers to see
if the Mana Wastes are beginning to worsen in a way
that could negatively affect her creations.
The results of the inquiry continue to evolve, but
preliminary findings indicate that the fundamental nature
of the Mana Wastes may be mutating even more rapidly
than the creatures that inhabit it. The degradation of the
Brass Guardians’ processing cores results from an active
force, not a simple antimagic effect.
Around the same time Eliza’s taskforce determined this,
the fleshforges in Ecanus, a nearby city in Nex, spun back
to life, ejecting monstrosities unheard of since the rule of
Nex’s legendary founder. Most of the researchers point
to a sudden shift in the Mana Wastes’ odd properties,
but one dissenter posited a more disturbing theory: the
imminent return of the archwizard Nex. For now, Eliza
has chosen to keep these developments a secret, but
information such as this rarely stays hidden for long.
197
197
