Introduction
Gears
Characters
Gears
Equipment
Guns
Characters
Guns
Equipment
The Rotating
Gear
Glossary
And Index
Guns &
GEARS
tray that wielders can load with powder and shot and
then quickly prep to fire with minimal effort. Many
dwarves of Dongun Hold have gone so far as to retire
the signatory clan daggers of their extended family
units, replacing them with clan pistols to showcase
the family’s gunsmithing skills. The most proud and
unyielding families might even refuse to acknowledge
that a child has reached adulthood until they craft
their own clan pistol designed in accordance with the
family’s exacting standards.
In Casmaron and Vudra, firearms obtained from
either Garund or Tian Xia are held in high regard and
often become family heirlooms, particularly among
families of merchants and guards. Because it’s difficult
to obtain replacement parts for these weapons, the
jezail has become a particularly common weapon of
choice. Typically starting from the barrel and firing
mechanism of a long gun, such as a musket or even
an arquebus, a jezail has a stock handcrafted by each
successive owner, customized to their grip and build
for maximum utility and often accented with artistic
patterns that celebrate the owner’s, or their family’s,
history and accomplishments.
Arcadia’s
modern
firearms
include
magical
innovations alongside technological ones, making them
just as mystical as their ancient predecessor weapons.
Beast guns in particular have benefitted from millennia
to perfect the rituals and magic used to create them,
allowing for the creation of several types of beast guns
with powerful effects or longer range compared to
most black powder firearms.
REVOLVERS AND WORLD WAR I–ERA WEAPONS
A small number of weapons that are more advanced
than anything that can be reproduced on Golarion
have found their way into Golarion from time to time.
In a few Adventure Paths, player characters have the
opportunity to travel to other worlds where modern
weaponry is available. The assumption is that some
of these revolvers, World War I–era weapons, and
other devices may have made their way into the hands
of collectors throughout Golarion, but never in a
significant enough quantity to be considered anything
other than absolute rarities.
Because these weapons, and the ammunition used
to fire them, aren’t something that can be reliably
reproduced on Golarion, statistics for them aren’t
included in this book. A GM looking to introduce these
types of guns has several options to choose from, but
before you begin, it’s important to note that doing so
can have an imbalanced effect. The guns of Golarion
are designed to work well along the other weapons
in the world, giving you more options that each have
power in certain situations. Firearms with additional
advantages would simply be more powerful than
anything else available, potentially raising damage
output significantly while negatively impacting an
array of other gunslinger options.
For a mechanical expression that works similarly
to a cartridge-fed rifle, a GM might look at creating
a non-magical version of the Rowan Rifle (page 166)
with the repeating trait. However, the resulting weapon
would be more powerful than an advanced firearm, so
it’s not recommended. For a GM looking to create a
revolver, a similar mechanical expression might result
from adding the repeating trait to the dueling pistol,
but again, this would make it more powerful than an
advanced firearm, so it isn’t recommended.
An option that might work better if you’re
interested in using newer, more modern guns as the
main firearms in your campaign is to instead adjust
the baseline expectations for them. Being able to load
the breech-loading weapons included in this book
with just a single Interact action is a pretty big stretch,
created to make them more fun to use than a simulated
reality, but if you want to use more modern guns in
your setting, you can just say that breech loaders take
a more realistic time to reload (making them very weak
compared to other weapons), and then use the statistics
currently listed for a pepperbox as a revolver instead.
This option will have no knock-on implications that
throw off the weapon balance in your game, but it’s
an all-or-nothing choice that’s only appropriate if
modern firearms are the ones that are mainly used in
your world.
The final option you might consider to handle these
firearms is to create statistics for specific magical
versions of certain modern guns and say those were the
only expressions of those guns available to be found.
This allows you to give the gun enhanced statistics
without causing any problems because the weapon
starts out at a significantly higher level and is unable
to add property runes, whereas other weapons can add
property runes to gain additional benefits.
BLACK POWDER PRESERVATIVES?
On both Golarion and Earth, black powder contains
elements that can help preserve and even season food.
On Earth in the early 1800s, Napoleon Bonaparte is said
to have used gunpowder to season and preserve horse
meat to feed his wounded troops when supplies were
particularly low after a major battle. On Golarion, this
same technique has been used in years past by Casmar
and Vudrani traders, when storms or other events
threatened to spoil rations or even cause the black
powder itself to go to waste. Today, the demand for black
powder across the Inner Sea is high enough, and the
availability of black powder from Tian Xia low enough,
that the practice is largely discontinued. Preserving or
seasoning your rations with black powder would be akin
to salting a steak with gold!
149
149
