gun of any kind is a capital offense. An extensive and
surprisingly well-armed rebellion is working to overthrow
the theocracy and has caches of guns hidden throughout
Halana; it only needs to recruit enough heroes willing to
fight to free their land.
ILLANI PLAINS
The sweeping plains across central Arcadia are stained
with old blood. Great civilizations of horselords and their
thunderous mounts have stampeded across these plains for
thousands of years. The western edge of these plains has
seen an age of relative peace in the last few generations,
thanks to the protection afforded by technology from Three
Craters, and the resilience of its orc and human inhabitants.
Ages ago after banding together with a group of
dwarves to defeat a massive gogiteth threat, the orcs of
Arcadia teamed up to assist the dwarves in achieving their
quest to find the surface. The two have been on good terms
ever since. Receiving a poor welcome from the beastkin of
Briarbough, the orcs migrated into the Illani Plains. Rather
than come as conquerors and warmongers, they knew
their struggling people must make peace to survive. The
humans of the plains, recently freed from oppressors to
the east and whose leadership was in turmoil, needed their
aid in turn. Humans and orcs became firm allies and have
been so ever since. Humans contributed their agricultural
and equestrian lore, and orcs brought numerous skills and
secrets from their subterranean homes. Not the least of
these was how to craft trophies torn from monstrous foes
into weapons. Combined with the star gun lore, the people
of the Illani Plains were among the first groups in Arcadia
to create beast guns. Hunts into the caverns beneath the
plains’ ancient buttes provide the raw materials for this
ancient art, still practiced today.
Bountiful farms and ranches across the Illani Plains
feed Three Craters and many other nearby nations.
Even the poorest citizens of Latwaria and Grassbutte,
the largest Illani cities, never fear starvation, although
a malignant plague is spreading in these urban centers.
This plague is kept in check by the region’s gun-toting
priests of Desna (known as “the Lady of Long Grasses”
here), but there’s serious concern for the fate of the region
should the plague spread into the fertile countryside.
TAZUNI
The western desert extending from the Crownpeaks is
bounded to the south by salty Lake Tapipallati, and to the
north by the Halana Theocracy and the cities of the insular
Primal League. This is a wild, dusty land of hard people,
desperate bandits, and steel-eyed law-bringers. Civilization
is clustered in cities such as Altameda, Carama, and New
Hayewood; each is surrounded by hardscrabble farms
and ranches. The land is in dire need of heroes to kill
marauding beasts, track down cattle thieves, and guard
wagons traveling from town to town. Local sheriffs
are often happy for the help—if they aren’t behind the
banditry themselves, as not all lawkeepers live up to the
honor of their badges. The law’s reach in Tazuni doesn’t
extend further than a rifle’s shot, so criminals who vanish
into the desert are free to simply move on elsewhere.
Travel is a way of life in Tazuni. Regular stagecoaches
take settlers, goods, and mail between communities.
210
210
