the glass casing inside the bullet bursts, releasing a splattering
of bubbling green acid that coats the target. The target takes
2d6 persistent acid damage in addition to the damage normally
dealt by the attack.
EXSANGUINATING AMMUNITION
ITEM 4+
ALCHEMICAL
CONSUMABLE
Ammunition any
Activate [one-action] Interact
This ammunition includes a small reservoir of a tacky red
substance that coats the ammunition when you activate
it. The substance makes a creature bleed more freely. For 1
minute after you deal damage to a creature with an activated
exsanguinating ammunition that creature gains the listed
weakness to persistent bleed damage. In addition, the DC of
any flat checks to end persistent bleed damage increases from
15 to 17 (from 10 to 12 when receiving particularly effective
assistance) for the duration.
Type exsanguinating ammunition; Level 4; Price 15 gp
The target gains weakness 1 to persistent bleed damage.
Type greater exsanguinating ammunition; Level 8; Price 80 gp
The target gains weakness 3 to persistent bleed damage.
Type major exsanguinating ammunition; Level 12; Price 360 gp
The target gains weakness 5 persistent bleed damage.
FAIRY BULLET
ITEM 7
UNCOMMON
CONJURATION
CONSUMABLE
FEY
MAGICAL
Price 65 gp
Ammunition round
Activate [two-actions] command, envision
These bullets are seaweed-green, refract light like an emerald,
and are covered in a thin film of gray-green powder. When
fired, a fairy bullet creates an effect that functions as the
glitterdust spell in a line between you and your target. This
line can be no more than 60 feet long, so if the target is
more than 60 feet away from you, the line simply ends after
reaching its maximum distance. Since the fairy bullet is fired
before the glitterdust can reveal the target, the effects don’t
affect the flat check for the attack roll with the fairy bullet.
GLUE BULLET
ITEM 4
UNCOMMON
ALCHEMICAL
CONSUMABLE
Price 16 gp
Ammunition round
Activate [one-action] Interact
These cartridges are filled with sticky clear glue. When a glue
bullet hits, a syrupy webbing coats the target and sticks to the
ground or a nearby surface, hindering their movement. The
target takes a –10-foot circumstance penalty to its Speeds for
170
170
