The following common backgrounds are particularly
appropriate for a character that interacts with
technology in a changing world. While the backgrounds
are listed as common for an area with themes of gears
and technology, and their mechanics and story impact
are not likely to require a discussion with your GM
or the other players, many of them still might not be
thematically appropriate for regions and campaigns that
lack these themes.
ANTI-TECH ACTIVIST
BACKGROUND
You’ve seen the sorts of things that technology brings—
polluted environments, workers put out of their jobs or
horribly injured, and the slow erosion of society—and you’ve
vowed to inform the larger world of these ills. You do so with
long, impassioned speeches on street corners and village
squares and by talking personally with the heads of various
guilds. Adventuring into the wider world could help spread
your message even farther.
Choose two ability boosts. One must be to Constitution or
Charisma, and one is a free ability boost.
You’re trained in the Intimidation skill and the Guild Lore
skill. You gain the Group Coercion skill feat.
CLOCKFIGHTER
While others choose to use their engineering ability to heal
the injured or make brilliant innovations, you’ve used your
skill to repair and modify clockwork constructs that battle in
gladiatorial combat. You know how to get a crowd electrified
for your clockwork gladiator, win or lose, and you know how
to repair it when it gets damaged. These skills serve you well
as an adventurer.
Choose two ability boosts. One must be to Intelligence or
Charisma, and one is a free ability boost.
You’re trained in the Crafting skill and the Gladiatorial
Lore skill. You gain the Experienced Professional skill feat.
CLOCKWORK RESEARCHER
BACKGROUND
New forms of clockwork technology are incredibly
interesting to you, and you’ve been studying examples
of them to see where else they might be best put to use.
You might eventually develop a new prototype machine or
find a way to make related technologies practical enough
for everyone to benefit. Though before you do, you must
continue your research!
Choose two ability boosts. One must be to Dexterity or
Intelligence, and one is a free ability boost.
You’re trained in the Society skill and the Engineering Lore
skill. You gain the Eye for Numbers (Advanced Player’s Guide
206) skill feat.
CODEBREAKER
BACKGROUND
Whether you’re employed by a military organization to
decipher coded messages sent by enemy
factions or work independently to crack an
enigma created by a past civilization, you
have a head for patterns and linguistics.
You might even use new clockwork
devices to aid you in your efforts.
Choose two ability boosts. One must be
to Intelligence or Wisdom, and one is a free
ability boost.
You’re trained in the Society skill and the Cryptography
Lore skill. You gain the Glean Contents (Advanced Player’s
Guide 206) skill feat.
COMMON BACKGROUNDS
44
44
Disciple of the Gear
