snare (trait) Traps typically made by rangers, snares follow
special rules that allow them to be constructed quickly
and used on the battlefield. 78–81, CR 589–591, APG 256
splash (trait) When you use a thrown weapon with the
splash trait, you don’t add your
Strength modifier to the damage
roll. If an attack with a splash
weapon fails, succeeds, or
critically succeeds, all creatures
within 5 feet of the target
(including the target) take the listed
splash damage. On a failure (but not a
critical failure), the target of the attack still
takes the splash damage. Add splash damage
together with the initial damage against the
target before applying the target’s weaknesses
or resistances. You don’t multiply splash damage on a
critical hit. CR 544
stance (trait) A stance is a general combat strategy that
you enter by using an action with the stance trait, and
that you remain in for some time. A stance lasts until
you get knocked out, until its requirements (if any) are
violated, until the encounter ends, or until you enter
a new stance, whichever comes first. After you use
an action with the stance trait, you can’t use another
one for 1 round. You can enter or be in a stance only in
encounter mode.
steam (trait) Items with this trait are powered by engines that
boil water to produce steam and move their components.
sweep (weapon trait) This weapon makes wide sweeping
or spinning attacks, making it easier to attack multiple
enemies. When you attack with this weapon, you gain a
+1 circumstance bonus to your attack roll if you already
attempted to attack a different target this turn using this
weapon. CR 283
talisman (trait) A talisman is a small object affixed to
armor, a shield, or a weapon (called the affixed item).
You must be wielding or wearing an item to activate
a talisman attached to it. Once activated,
a talisman burns out permanently.
184–185, CR 565–570
tethered (weapon trait) This weapon is
attached to a length of rope or chain
that allows you to retrieve it after it
has left your hand. If you have a free
hand, you can use an Interact action to
pull the weapon back into your grasp
after you have thrown it as a ranged
attack or after it has been disarmed
(unless it is being held by another
creature). 159
thrown (weapon trait) You can throw
this weapon as a ranged attack; it
is a ranged weapon when thrown. You
add your Strength modifier to damage as you would for
a melee weapon. When this trait appears on a melee
weapon, it also includes the range increment. Ranged
weapons with this trait use the range increment in the
weapon’s Range entry. CR 283
transmutation (trait) Effects and magic items with this
trait are associated with the transmutation school of
magic, typically changing something’s form.
trap (trait) A hazard or item with this trait is constructed to
hinder interlopers. CR 520
two-hand (weapon trait) This weapon can be wielded with
two hands. Doing so changes its weapon damage die
to the indicated value. This change applies to all the
weapon’s damage dice, such as those
from striking runes. CR 283
uncommon
(trait)
Something
of
uncommon rarity requires special
training or comes from a particular
culture or part of the world. Some
character choices give access to
uncommon options, and the GM
can choose to allow access for
anyone. CR 13
unique (trait) A rules element with
this trait is one-of-a-kind. CR 13
unstable (trait) Unstable actions
rely on experimental functions of
your innovation that even you can’t fully
predict. After an unstable action is used on an innovation,
using another one is dangerous. 17
usage An indication of how an item must be worn, held, or
otherwise used. CR 535
versatile
(weapon
trait)
A
versatile weapon can be used
to deal a different type of
damage than that listed
in the Damage entry. This
trait indicates the alternate
damage type. For instance, a
piercing weapon that is versatile
S can be used to deal piercing or
slashing damage. You choose the damage
type each time you make an attack. CR 283
visual (trait) A visual effect can affect only
creatures that can see it. This applies only to
visible parts of the effect, as determined by the
GM. CR 301
volley (weapon trait) This ranged weapon is less effective
at close distances. Your attacks against targets that are
at a distance less than the range listed take a –2 penalty.
CR 283
water (trait) Effects with the water trait either manipulate
or conjure water. Those that manipulate water have no
effect in an area without water. Creatures with this trait
consist primarily of water or have a magical connection
to the element.
weapon 62–64, 150–167, CR 278–286, APG 248
worn item (magic item) 179–180, CR 603–617, APG 260–264
236
236
