•	 Rope Shot (Ranged Only): Your weapon can shoot
projectiles that split into simple ropes or nets
around your foes’ legs to trip your targets, and
you can climb using the grappling hooks built into
the weapon. Your weapon innovation gains the
climbing and ranged trip traits (see the sidebar on
page 17).
•	 Tangle Line (Thrown Only): Your weapon has an
extensible line that you can use to knock your enemies
over and quickly recall the weapon back to your
hand. Your innovation gains the ranged trip trait and
the tethered trait (see the sidebar on page 17).
LIGHTNING REFLEXES
7TH
Your reflexes are lightning fast. Your proficiency rank for
Reflex saves increases to expert.
MASTER OVERDRIVE
7TH
Your mastery of invention and crafting enhances
your Overdrive even further. You become a master in
Crafting, and on a successful Overdrive, you increase
the additional damage by a total of 2, replacing the
increase from expert overdrive.
WEAPON SPECIALIZATION
7TH
You’ve learned how to inflict greater injuries with the
weapons you know best. You deal 2 additional damage
with weapons and unarmed attacks in which you are an
expert. This damage increases to 3 if you’re a master, and
4 if you’re legendary.
INVENTIVE EXPERTISE
9TH
Through innovation and experimentation, you’ve
made your inventions more effective and reliable. Your
proficiency rank for your inventor class DC increases
to expert.
OFFENSIVE BOOST
9TH
You’ve made additions to your innovation to upgrade
your offensive capabilities. Your improvements make any
Strikes that rely on your innovation deal an additional
1d6 damage, with a type determined by the boost you
choose. If your innovation is armor, the boost applies to
your melee unarmed Strikes and to your melee Strikes
with one weapon you choose during daily preparations;
if your innovation is a construct, the boost applies
to your construct companion’s Strikes; and if your
innovation is a weapon, the boost applies to your Strikes
with your innovation. You can spend downtime to switch
to a different boost in the same way as switching your
modification. Choose one of the following boosts, with
the damage type in parentheses.
•	 Chill (Cold): Your innovation rapidly absorbs heat,
creating an intense chill.
•	 Ignition (Fire): Your innovation shoots out jets of
searing flame.
•	 Jolt (Electricity): Your innovation jolts foes with
charges of electricity.
•	 Momentum (Bludgeoning): Your innovation slams
into foes with added momentum.
•	 Saws (Slashing): Your innovation reveals spinning
sawblades during your attacks.
•	 Spike (Piercing): Your innovation reveals wicked
spikes during your attacks.
•	 Vitriol (Acid): Your innovation releases spurts of
caustic acid.
MEDIUM ARMOR EXPERTISE
11TH
You’ve learned to better defend yourself against attacks.
Your proficiency ranks for light armor, medium armor,
and unarmored defense increase to expert.
If you have a medium or heavy armor innovation, you
gain access to the critical specialization effect with your
armor innovation.
RESOLVE
11TH
You’ve steeled your mind with resolve. Your proficiency
rank for Will saves increases to master. When you roll a
success on a Will save, you get a critical success instead.
ALERTNESS
13TH
Your attention to detail lets you remain alert to threats
around you. Your proficiency rank for Perception
increases to expert.
COMPLETE RECONFIGURATION
13TH
When it comes to crafting and tinkering, you’ve become
incredibly adept at changing your modifications to
adjust your innovation’s functionality. When you spend
downtime to reconfigure your innovation and succeed
at your Crafting check, you can swap any number of
modifications, swap your offensive boost, or retrain any
number of modification feats, rather than one. You still
must swap a modification only with one of the same type
(initial, breakthrough, or revolutionary).
INVENTOR WEAPON MASTERY
13TH
You fully understand your weapons. Your proficiency
ranks for simple and martial weapons and unarmed
attacks increase to master.
GREATER WEAPON SPECIALIZATION
15TH
Your damage from weapon specialization increases to 4
with weapons and unarmed attacks in which you’re an
expert, 6 if you’re a master, and 8 if you’re legendary.
LEGENDARY OVERDRIVE
15TH
Your peerless inventing and Crafting ability has
supercharged your Overdrives. You become legendary in
Crafting, and on a successful Overdrive, you increase the
additional damage by a total of 3, replacing the increase
from master overdrive.
22
22
