Introduction
Gears
Characters
Gears
Equipment
Guns
Characters
Guns
Equipment
The Rotating
Gear
Glossary
And Index
Guns &
GEARS
disrupts magical energy and a grappling hook with a
retractable clockwork cord, this book is for you. Feel
free to use the elements of this book that align strongly
with your vision for the characters, adventures, and game
world you create while leaving the rest behind!
BORDERS AND CHANGE
When constructing a fantasy world or playing in a
world like Golarion where wizards live next door
to gunslingers and even the most magical of realms
might have technological clockwork soldiers and other
scientific discoveries that simulate, enhance, or even
replace magic—it can become hard to picture how all
these disparate elements coexist alongside each other.
Why don’t firearms get adopted by other nearby
nations? Why would someone spend vast troves of gold
to build a clockwork dragon when they could teleport
an egg away from a nest and get the real thing much
more cheaply?
There are quite a few possible answers to these
questions, and figuring out those answers can help
make your campaign setting more vibrant and relatable.
To start, we’ll talk about some of the ways in which
Golarion answers these questions before diving into ways
to integrate these kinds of themes deeper into your own
original setting.
Dongun Hold and Alkenstar are strong examples of
areas in Golarion that can have a technology level that’s
significantly above the average technology level for the
rest of the world, without undermining or significantly
changing the general dynamics of Golarion and nearby
regions. Wedged between two warring nations ruled
by wizard kings, Alkenstar and Dongun Hold have no
significant ports of their own and are surrounded by a
wasteland filled with mutants and monsters. Moreover,
the ancient magical wars that scarred the Mana Wastes
also created pockets of unstable magic or magical dead
zones where magic remains unreliable at best and
virtually nonexistent at worst. As a
result, it makes sense that the hearty
smiths of Dongun Hold craft firearms
as the primary method to protect
themselves from dangerous creatures and
threats, as does the fact that the weapons
have remained available only in this
small region of the Inner Sea until
quite recently.
In your homebrew world, you
can use similar levers to partition the
different countries and regions you create
according to similar circumstances, or you
can use completely different options
as appropriate. For example, if your
campaign world is one in which
firearms exist but are limited to a very
specific part of the world, ask yourself why these weapons
have been restricted. Is there a powerful organization
that relies on its stranglehold over the secrets of firearm
production to protect its interests? Perhaps magic is
so prevalent that only a rare, aberrant individual who
lacks a talent for magic would be interested in pursuing
technological advancements. Maybe the dynamics of the
world itself comes into play; for example, some element
in the atmosphere or properties of the metals
drawn from below the surface resist being
shaped and manipulated to the degree
necessary for creating firearms or other
technological weapons and gadgets,
so the only way to obtain such items
is to purchase them from extraplanar
merchants who import them from
distant planes. The possibilities are
endless, and it doesn’t matter so much
what reason you decide on, as long
as you have some understanding of
how the world you create weaves
together.
Of course, your world could also be
a wild and boundless convergence of planar
nexuses, where gunslingers fight alongside
sword-swinging knights and psychic snakes.
Anything is possible and only needs to make
as much sense as is required for you and your
friends to enjoy yourselves and tell the kinds of
stories you want!
WHAT ABOUT NUMERIA?
The nation of Numeria is known to have technology levels
that greatly exceed those of the rest of Golarion. With a
crashed spaceship from a distant planet thrust into the
middle of its landscape, Numeria has lasers, artificial
intelligences, and other technology that transcend
steampunk or clockwork influences and approach the
realm of science fiction. Numeria and its technology
aren’t represented in this book, as those themes and
mechanics are better reserved for a presentation that can
give them the focus they deserve.
Some players might want to play a character from
Numeria, however, perhaps envisioning a ysoki inventor
who didn’t have access to technology from the crashed
spaceship and instead innovated based on what they
saw, using clockworks and steam engines to emulate the
functionality, if not the technological level, of weapons
and devices scavenged in the region. GMs who allow
access to the inventor class would be fully justified in also
giving characters from Numeria access to the inventor
and its gadgets, though with a clear understanding that
the technology level represented by the inventor is very
different from the highly advanced equipment normally
associated with the region.
9
Whirp
