TABLE 3–1: GUNSLINGER ADVANCEMENT
Your
Level
Class Features
1
Ancestry and background, initial proficiencies,
gunslinger’s way, initial deed, gunslinger feat,
singular expertise
2
Gunslinger feat, skill feat
3
General feat, skill increase, stubborn
4
Gunslinger feat, skill feat
5
Ability boosts, ancestry feat, gunslinger weapon
mastery, skill increase
6
Gunslinger feat, skill feat
7
General feat, skill increase, vigilant senses,
weapon specialization
8
Gunslinger feat, skill feat
9
Advanced deed, ancestry feat, gunslinger
expertise, skill increase
10
Ability boosts, gunslinger feat, skill feat
11
Evasion, general feat, skill increase
12
Gunslinger feat, skill feat
13
Ancestry feat, gunslinging legend, medium armor
expertise, skill increase
14
Gunslinger feat, skill feat
15
Ability boosts, general feat, greater deed, greater
weapon specialization, skill increase
16
Gunslinger feat, skill feat
17
Ancestry feat, juggernaut, shootist’s edge, skill
increase
18
Gunslinger feat, skill feat
19
General feat, incredible senses, medium armor
mastery, skill increase
20
Ability boosts, gunslinger feat, skill feat
Class Features
You gain these abilities as a gunslinger. Abilities gained at
higher levels list the level at which you gain them next to
the features’ names.
ANCESTRY AND BACKGROUND
In addition to those from your class at 1st level, you have
the benefits of your selected ancestry and background.
INITIAL PROFICIENCIES
At 1st level, you gain a number of proficiencies that
represent your basic training. These proficiencies are
noted at the start of this class.
GUNSLINGER’S WAY
All gunslingers have a particular way they follow, a
combination of philosophy and combat style that defines
both how they fight and the weapons they excel with. At
1st level, your way grants you an initial deed, a unique
reload action called a slinger’s reload, and proficiency
with a particular skill. You also gain advanced and greater
deeds at later levels, as well as access to way-specific feats.
The gunslinger ways are described in detail on page 108.
The following ways are presented in this book.
Way of the Drifter: You wander across the battlefield,
equally at home in and out of the fray.
Way of the Pistolero: You carefully maintain your
distance at a duelist’s 10 paces with pistol in hand.
Way of the Sniper: You practice a methodical style of
shooting, striking from far cover.
Way of the Vanguard: You rely on a brutal combat
style that uses heavy weapons and explosive attacks.
GUNSLINGER FEATS
At 1st level and every even-numbered level, you gain a
gunslinger class feat.
SINGULAR EXPERTISE
You have particular expertise with guns and crossbows
that grants you greater proficiency with them and the
ability to deal more damage. You gain a +1 circumstance
bonus to damage rolls with firearms and crossbows.
This intense focus on firearms and crossbows prevents
you from reaching the same heights with other weapons.
Your proficiency with unarmed attacks and with
weapons other than firearms and crossbows can’t be
higher than trained, even if you gain an ability that would
increase your proficiency in one or more other weapons
to match your highest weapon proficiency (such as the
weapon expertise feats many ancestries have). If you have
gunslinger weapon mastery, the limit is expert, and if you
have gunslinging legend, the limit is master.
SKILL FEATS
2ND
At 2nd level and every even-numbered level, you
gain a skill feat. You must be trained or better in the
corresponding skill to select a skill feat.
GENERAL FEATS
3RD
At 3rd level and every 4 levels thereafter, you gain a
general feat.
SKILL INCREASES
3RD
At 3rd level and every 2 levels thereafter, you gain a skill
increase. You can use this increase either to increase your
proficiency rank to trained in one skill you’re untrained
in, or to increase your proficiency rank in one skill in
which you’re already trained to expert.
At 7th level, you can use skill increases to become a
master in a skill in which you’re already an expert, and
at 15th level, you can use them to become legendary in a
skill in which you’re already a master.
STUBBORN
3RD
You don’t like being told what to do, and you don’t
give up. Your proficiency rank for Will saves increases
to expert. When you fail, but don’t critically fail, a Will
save against an effect that would give you the controlled
condition, you can attempt a second save against the effect
106
106
