Bullet Dancer
While most monastic orders and traditional fighting
schools shun firearms as loud and unreliable technology
for unskilled conscripts, you fuse flourishing feints and
ricocheting gunplay into a whirling ballet of bullets. As a
bullet dancer, you might become the target of brash duelists
and gladiators looking to make a name for themselves.
But you tend to welcome the attention and might have
proven your reputation while dancing your deadly ballet
in tournaments from Tymon to Goka. You’ve found
your fluid motions and explosive attacks to be surefire
crowd-pleasers, even as they serve to confound and shock
your foes.
Additional Feats: 4th Brawling Focus (Core Rulebook
160), Pistol Twirl; 6th Black Powder Boost; 8th Snap Shot
(Core Rulebook 173); 12th Trick Shot; 14th Ricochet
Shot; 16th Showstopper, Two-Weapon Fusillade
BULLET DANCER DEDICATION
FEAT 2
UNCOMMON
DEDICATION
DEDICATION
ARCHETYPE
DEDICATION
Prerequisites expert in unarmored defense and
trained in simple weapons
You’ve learned how
to
synchronize
traditional martial arts
and guns. You gain the Bullet Dancer
Stance action. Whenever your proficiency
in any weapon increases to expert or
beyond, you gain that new proficiency with
bayonets, reinforced stocks, simple firearms
and unarmed attacks.
Bullet
Dancer
Stance
[one-action]
(stance)
Requirements You’re unarmored and
wielding a simple firearm, bayonet, or
reinforced stock; Effect You enter a
specialized stance for a unique martial
art centered around the use of simple
firearms. While in this stance, the
only Strikes you can make are those
using bayonets, reinforced stocks,
and simple firearms. You can use
Flurry of Blows with these weapons.
You can use your other monk feats
or monk abilities that normally
require unarmed attacks with bayonets
and reinforced stocks, so long as the feat
or ability doesn’t require a single, specific Strike.
You can also use them with simple firearms when
attacking within half the first range increment.
Special You can’t select another dedication feat
until you’ve gained two other feats from the bullet
dancer dedication archetype.
BULLET DANCER BURN
FEAT 6
ARCHETYPE
Prerequisites Bullet Dancer Stance
Requirements You’re wielding a firearm with an attached
bayonet or reinforced stock.
The fiery blaze of your weapons combined with your unorthodox
technique leaves your opponents with little opportunity to
capitalize on any gaps in your defenses, or properly defend
themselves against your onslaught. While in Bullet Dancer
Stance, when you successfully Strike an opponent with a
bayonet or reinforced stock attached to your firearm, the next
ranged Strike you make against that opponent doesn’t trigger
reactions that would trigger on a ranged attack, such as Attack
of Opportunity. While in Bullet Dancer Stance, when you
make a successful ranged Strike against an opponent within
your melee reach using a firearm, the next reinforced stock or
bayonet attack attached to that firearm deals an additional 1
fire damage per weapon damage die.
The benefit on your next Strike from either use of Bullet
Dancer Burn is lost if not used by the end of your next turn.
BLACK POWDER BLAZE [two-actions]
FEAT 8
ARCHETYPE
Prerequisites Black Powder Boost
Requirements You’re wielding a loaded firearm.
You learn to take advantage of every shot,
flying across the battlefield with the help of
your weapon’s recoil. Stride and use Black
Powder Boost. Make a ranged Strike with
the required weapon at any point during
the Black Powder Boost.
BULLET DANCER RELOAD [one-action] FEAT 12
ARCHETYPE
FLOURISH
Prerequisites Bullet Dancer Burn
Requirements You’re in Bullet Dancer
Stance.
You’ve
learned
to
reload
your
simple
firearms
with uncanny grace, the
ammunition simply falling into place
as though part of a well-practiced
kata. You Strike with a simple
firearm, and then Interact to
reload that same firearm. You
don’t need a free hand to reload your
simple firearm in this way.
RANGED DISARM [one-action]
FEAT 14
ARCHETYPE
Prerequisites Bullet Dancer Dedication,
Trick Shot
Requirements You’re wielding a simple
firearm.
When using a simple firearm, you can shoot objects right
out of your enemy’s hands. Attempt to Disarm the target
using a ranged attack roll with your simple firearm,
instead of attempting an Athletics check against
the target’s Reflex DC.
132
132
