Introduction
Gears
Characters
Gears
Equipment
Guns
Characters
Guns
Equipment
The Rotating
Gear
Glossary
And Index
Guns &
GEARS
with matching interests. Priests of Brigh, for example,
count on this camaraderie to spur innovation via
frequent lectures at their temple in the Ascendant Court.
Mechanics are a quirky lot; some are misanthropes who
dislike sharing any findings with others, but most enjoy
advancing their knowledge by consulting with peers.
This collegial learning is further amplified by Absalom’s
many universities and academies. The foremost
example is the Clockwork Cathedral, the preeminent
institution for specialists who might take a few courses
to expand their horizons, frequent the institution to
make like-minded acquaintances, or even take a turn at
teaching classes to other eager minds.
As the city develops multiple specialists, unusual
components become easier and easier to find. Exacting
specification is needed when engineering new tools
and precision machinery, and therefore any reclusive
tinkerer who needs a particular gear or spring must
normally make it themself or order it from a distant
manufacturer. However, these manufacturers bring their
wares right to Absalom, as there’s a sufficient number of
buyers looking for their components.
Other items are entirely constructed in Absalom,
as the city is a large manufacturing center. Not only
that, manufacturers produce greater quantities of these
components as demand grows, sometimes requiring
more skilled engineers in order to effectively increase
production. Premade and easily acquired components
are particularly important to the makers of clockwork
devices, because crafting each cog and wheel is
laborious for even the most exacting machinist. Most
inventors would prefer to receive base materials they
know they can trust to fit their standards to the most
minute inspections. They would rather focus their
efforts instead on dreaming up what sorts of brand new
inventions they can build by combining these parts in a
unique way.
All these factors combine to spur innovation
within the city of Absalom, but only a few of these
innovations are kept completely secret or restricted,
and thus progress doesn’t stay confined within its walls.
A well-educated specialist might have any number
of reasons to leave the city: a prestigious posting in
a distant metropolis, a change in financial or family
circumstances, or simply a desire to be away from the
crushing crowds of the City at the Center of the World.
Those who leave Absalom take their knowledge (and
often, their equipment and innovations) along with
them to their new homes, thus spreading their skills
to others in distant lands. After all, the opportunity
to learn from a student of the Clockwork Cathedral
isn’t something an inventor in, say Riddleport, is likely
to experience twice! This education, in turn, spurs the
inquisitive or talented to return to Absalom, whether
during the years or generations that follow. And so, the
flow of innovation through Absalom continues.
Absalom Locations
The following locations in Absalom are useful for any
adventure in the City at the Center of the World, but
they are of particular interest to those associated with
or seeking out unusual technology.
CLOCKWORK CATHEDRAL
The
Clockwork
Cathedral
stands
in Absalom’s
MECHANICAL ERRORS
Anyone seeking low-cost gadgets in Absalom’s markets
is likely to find intriguing items that don’t work entirely
as expected. Here are some malfunctions you can include
with any mechanical device.
Belches Smoke: The machine emits a puff of smoke
every few minutes. For the round after it malfunctions,
anything in the space occupied by the machine is
concealed, and all creatures are concealed from any
creature in that space. The smoke might eventually cause
a significant nuisance or even a breathing hazard if there
isn’t sufficient air circulation.
Erratically Fails: The mechanism has an activation
flat check (usually with a DC of 2 or 3); on a failure,
the contraption simply fails to activate. If the machine
successfully activates, it operates normally thereafter,
unless it has another malfunction from this list.
Injures Bystanders: The machine has an errant
flywheel, metal tang, or other piece that swings outward
at irregular intervals. When it malfunctions, each nearby
creature must succeed at a Reflex saving throw with a
DC appropriate for the item’s level (Core Rulebook 503)
or take damage of a type appropriate to the malfunction.
This is typically no more than 1d4 damage but could be
more dangerous for larger or more complex clockworks.
Leaks: Once a day, the mechanism leaks oil, coolant,
or some other fluid into its space and a random adjacent
square (or, if the GM desires, whichever adjacent space
causes the party the most trouble). The affected squares
are uneven ground (Core Rulebook 476), requiring
creatures who pass through the square to succeed at an
Acrobatics check to Balance with a DC appropriate for
the item’s level.
Rattles: When it’s moved or jostled, the machine emits
a noisy rattling for 1 round that can be heard clearly by
nearby creatures.
Scorches Oil: The machine emits the stench of burnt oil
or rubber at unpredictable intervals (but usually no more
than once an hour). Creatures adjacent to the machine
when it malfunctions become sickened 1 by the smell.
Violently
Explodes:
The
machine’s
internal
mechanisms fly apart, destroying it. Obviously, it can
malfunction in this way only once, and the GM should
have a good reason to destroy a mechanism upon which
the party relies.
203
203
