When you attach large bore modifications to a kickback
weapon, the circumstance bonus to damage granted by the
kickback trait increases from 1 to 2 additional damage and
the Strength requirement to fire the weapon without penalty
increases to 18.
When you attach large bore modifications to a weapon
with the scatter trait, the radius of the scatter effect
increases by 5 feet, but the weapon imposes a –2 penalty on
attack rolls if the wielder’s Strength score is less than 14. If
the weapon has both the kickback and scatter traits, apply
both sets of modifications with the Strength requirement
raised to 18 to avoid penalties when firing.
UNDERWATER FIRING MECHANISM
ITEM 9
UNCOMMON
MAGICAL
Price 600 gp
Usage attached to firearm (firing mechanism); Bulk —
This device replaces the attached firearm’s normal firing
mechanism (normally, most of the guns in this chapter use a
flintlock or matchlock firing mechanism). When the firearm’s
wielder fires the weapon, a small rune etched on a piece of
stone affixed inside the mechanism releases a magical spark
that’s propelled through the firing mechanism and into the
firearm, launching its bullet. An underwater firing mechanism
allows the attached firearm to be fired underwater or in
other conditions that would normally prevent the ignition of
black powder. Attaching an underwater firing mechanism to
a firearm takes 1 hour, though this time can overlap with the
standard time required to maintain and clean your firearm to
prevent misfires.
Talismans
A talisman is a small object affixed to armor, a shield,
or a weapon (which is called the affixed item). You must
be wielding or wearing an item to activate a talisman
attached to that item. Once activated, a talisman burns
out permanently. The talismans included in this section
are particularly useful for characters who wield firearms
or crossbows.
ADAPTIVE COGWHEEL
ITEM 2
CONSUMABLE
MAGICAL
TALISMAN
TRANSMUTATION
Price 5 gp
Usage affixed to a firearm; Bulk –
Activate [free-action] envision; Requirements You’re wielding the
affixed firearm.
This tiny copper gear is attached to the side of a firearm
with a matching bolt or pin. When you activate it, the
affixed weapon magically transfigures itself into the form
of any simple or martial firearm to which you have access,
harmlessly ejecting any contained ammunition in the
process. Any runes or attached items present on the affixed
weapon remain active unless incompatible with its new
form, in which case they’re suppressed for the duration of
the transformation. The effect lasts until the beginning of
your next turn.
ADMONISHING BAND
ITEM 4
CONSUMABLE
ENCHANTMENT
MAGICAL
TALISMAN
Price 20 gp
Usage affixed to a firearm; Bulk –
Activate [one-action] envision; Requirements You’re trained in
Intimidation.
This wide strip of treated lizard hide is wrapped around the
grip or stock of the affixed weapon, augmenting the unease
that your gunshot creates. When you activate it, you fire
your gun into the air with the effects of Warning Shot (page
112). If you already have the Warning Shot feat, the target
doesn’t become temporarily immune to your Demoralize,
potentially allowing you to Demoralize them again.
ENERGIZED CARTRIDGE
ITEM 4
CONSUMABLE
MAGICAL
TALISMAN
TRANSMUTATION
Price 20 gp
Usage affixed to a firearm or crossbow; Bulk -
Activate [free-action] envision; Trigger You attempt an attack roll
with the affixed firearm or crossbow; Requirements You’re
trained in use of the affixed firearm or crossbow.
This simple brass shell casing contains trace amounts
of alchemical ingredients and is usually attached to the
underside of the affixed weapon’s barrel. When activated,
it causes the ammunition fired from the affixed weapon to
transform into your choice of acid, cold, electricity, or fire,
dealing damage of the appropriate energy type instead of its
usual damage as well as 1d6 persistent damage of the same
type on a critical hit.
GHOSTSHOT WRAPPING
ITEM 11
CONSUMABLE
ILLUSION
MAGICAL
TALISMAN
Price 300 gp
Usage affixed to a ranged weapon; Bulk –
Activate [free-action] envision; Trigger You attempt a ranged Strike
with the affixed weapon while hidden or undetected.
This long strip of linen is tightly wound around the barrel
of the affixed firearm or the grip of a bow. When activated,
the talisman’s magic dampens the sound of the triggering
shot, rendering it completely silent, and additionally skews
the angle of the shot, so it appears to come from a different
location and direction than your actual position. You don’t
become automatically observed to any creatures due to
making the triggering Strike.
GOBLIN-EYE ORB
ITEM 5
CONSUMABLE
DIVINATION
MAGICAL
TALISMAN
Price 24 gp
Usage affixed to a weapon; Bulk –
Activate [free-action] envision; Trigger You attempt a Strike with
the affixed firearm or crossbow against an enemy that’s
concealed or hidden to you; Requirements You’re an
expert with the affixed firearm or crossbow and an expert
in Perception.
This colorful marble dangles from a leather thong wrapped
around the affixed weapon. When you activate the band, for
184
184
