Introduction
Gears
Characters
Gears
Equipment
Guns
Characters
Guns
Equipment
The Rotating
Gear
Glossary
And Index
Guns &
GEARS
Your innovation armor can have fundamental and
property runes added to it in the same way as ordinary
armor. Because of the unique features of your innovation,
everyone except you is untrained in it, even if they would
normally be trained (or better) in medium armor.
Choose one initial armor modification to apply to your
innovation, either from the following or from other initial
armor modifications to which you have access.
•	 Harmonic Oscillator: You designed your armor to
inaudibly thrum at just the right frequency to create
interference against force and sound waves. You gain
resistance equal to 3 + half your level to force and
sonic damage. When under the effects of Overdrive,
the resistance increases by 2.
•	 Metallic Reactance: The metals in your armor are
carefully alloyed to ground electricity and protect
from acidic chemical reactions. You gain resistance
equal to 3 + half your level to acid and electricity
damage. When under the effects of Overdrive, the
resistance increases by 2.
•	 Muscular Exoskeleton (Power Suit Only): Your
armor supports your muscles with a carefully
crafted exoskeleton. When you send your armor
into overdrive, the exoskeleton supplements your
feats of athletics as well. When under the effects
of Overdrive, you gain a +1 circumstance bonus to
Athletics checks; if you’re a master in Crafting, this
increases to a +2 circumstance bonus.
•	 Otherworldly Protection: Just because you use
science doesn’t mean you can’t build your armor
with carefully chosen materials and gizmos designed
to protect against otherworldly attacks. You gain
resistance equal to 3 + half your level to negative
damage, or to positive damage if you have negative
healing (such as if you’re a dhampir). You gain the
same amount of resistance to any types of alignment
damage—good, evil, chaotic, lawful—that can
damage you (note that creatures don’t take a given
type of alignment damage unless they are of the
opposing alignment; for instance, you can take evil
damage only if you are good in alignment).
•	 Phlogistonic Regulator: A layer of insulation within
your armor protects you from rapid temperature
fluctuations. You gain resistance equal to half your
level to cold and fire damage. When under the effects
of Overdrive, the resistance increases by 2.
•	 Speed Boosters: You have boosters in your armor that
increase your Speed. You gain a +5‑foot status bonus to
your Speed, which increases to a +10-foot status bonus
when under the effects of Overdrive.
•	 Subtle Dampeners (Subterfuge Suit Only): You’ve
designed your armor to help you blend in and
dampen noise slightly. When you send your armor
into overdrive, the dampeners increase their effect,
improving your Stealth. When under the effects of
Overdrive, you gain a +1 circumstance bonus to
KEY TERMS
Gadget: Gadgets (starting on page 66) are consumable
technological inventions with innovative uses.
Modification: An ability with this trait alters your
innovation’s construction. If you have the reconfigure class
feature (page 20), you can retrain these feats more easily.
Unstable: Unstable actions use experimental applications
of your innovation that even you can’t fully predict, and
that are hazardous to your innovation (and potentially you).
When you take an unstable action, attempt a DC 17 flat
check immediately after applying its effects. On a failure, the
innovation malfunctions in a spectacular (though harmless)
fashion, such as a belch of smoke or shower of sparks, and
it becomes incapable of being used for further unstable
actions. On a critical failure, you also take an amount of fire
damage equal to your level. As the innovation’s creator, you
can spend 10 minutes retuning your innovation and making
adjustments to return it to functionality, at which point you
can use unstable actions with that innovation again.
To take an unstable action, you must be using your
innovation (for example, wearing an armor innovation
or wielding a weapon innovation). If you have a minion
innovation, some unstable actions are taken by the minion
instead of you. In these cases, only the minion can take that
action, and the minion needs to have been Commanded
that turn to take the action. If you critically fail the flat
check, the minion takes the damage instead of you.
Some actions have an Unstable Function entry, which
you can use to add the unstable trait for a bigger benefit.
If you’re unable to use unstable actions, you can still use
the action normally, but you can’t use the unstable function.
EQUIPMENT TRAITS
Your inventor abilities might grant your equipment the
following traits, which are reprinted here for convenience.
Climbing: The hand wielding the weapon is available
to Climb.
Hampering: A weapon with the hampering trait
includes a disruptive limb or flange. You can use an
Interact action to thrash the weapon in a square within
the weapon’s reach. That square becomes difficult terrain
until you attack with the weapon, move, would otherwise
stop thrashing it, or at the beginning of your next turn.
Ranged Trip: The weapon can be used to Trip with
Athletics up to the weapon’s first range increment. The
skill check takes a –2 circumstance penalty. You can add
the weapon’s item bonus to attack rolls as a bonus to the
check. As with using a melee weapon to Trip, a ranged
trip weapon doesn’t deal any damage when used to Trip.
This trait usually appears only on a thrown weapon.
Tethered: If you have a free hand while wielding this
weapon, you can Interact to pull the weapon back to
your grasp after you throw or shoot it as a ranged attack,
or after it has been disarmed (unless it is being held by
another creature).
1717
