Introduction
Gears
Characters
Gears
Equipment
Guns
Characters
Guns
Equipment
The Rotating
Gear
Glossary
And Index
Guns &
GEARS
maybe, you had a talent you could use to forge a life for
yourself. A blood-soaked talent and a blood-soaked life,
sure. But it’s yours.
Choose two ability boosts. One boost must be to Strength
or Dexterity, and one is a free ability boost.
You’re trained in the Stealth skill and the Underworld Lore
skill. You gain the Terrain Stalker skill feat, choosing a terrain
appropriate for where you make your kills.
FARMSTEADER
BACKGROUND
You built your house using wood from the trees surrounding
it. Raised it up from the dirt and called it home. You thought
that it would be where you would grow old and die. But
despite your best efforts, you were wrong. The land that
once gave you food fell fallow, and dust took to the air and
choked the livestock. Now you wander the world as an
adventurer. Are you in search of a new place to settle down
and try again, or have you become disillusioned by your old
dreams, leading you to seek out a new purpose?
Choose two ability boosts. One must be to Constitution or
Wisdom, and one is a free ability boost.
You’re trained in the Survival skill and the Farming Lore
skill. You gain the Forager skill feat.
JUNK COLLECTOR
BACKGROUND
You live by the adage that one person’s trash is another’s
treasure. Whether by sifting through scrap heaps or
digging up old battlefields, you remain on the lookout for
lost or discarded objects that you might be able to turn into
something useful. More often than not, what you find is just
junk... but you’re convinced that one of these days, you’re
going to hit the jackpot. You’ve even taken up adventuring
as a means to supercharge your access to all sorts of junk,
gear, and loot.
Choose two ability boosts. One must be to Dexterity or
Intelligence, and one is a free ability boost.
You’re trained in the Crafting skill and your choice of
either the Engineering Lore or Mining Lore skill. You gain the
Crafter’s Appraisal skill feat (Advanced Player’s Guide 204).
SALOON ENTERTAINER
BACKGROUND
All you want to do is entertain the people, but sure enough,
bad news seems to follow you. Gunfights, brawls, robberies,
and more befall establishments you play at, and word is
quick to spread. Keep one town ahead of the gossip, and you
just might be able to play a gig, command a stage, or run a
table again.
Choose two ability boosts. One must be to Charisma or
Dexterity, and one is a free ability boost.
You’re trained in the Performance skill and a lore skill of
your choice. You gain the Virtuosic Performer skill feat.
SPOTTER
BACKGROUND
An eye for detail, a sense for the wind, and a strong trust in
your gut feelings. These qualities have set you apart from
others when it comes to assisting a sharpshooter with setting
up the perfect shot against their target. Elevation, velocity,
and concealment—these are all vital factors that need to be
considered to pull off a feat of true marksmanship, and no
sniper would be able to function without an experienced
spotter. Since your younger days, you’ve put your skills as
a spotter to work as an adventurer. Whether you’re taking
your own shots now or spotting for others, your talents
grant you an edge in an adventuring career.
Choose two ability boosts. One must be to Dexterity or
Wisdom, and one is a free ability boost.
You’re trained in the Stealth skill and the Scouting Lore
skill. You gain the Terrain Stalker skill feat.
UNDERTAKER
BACKGROUND
People die. This is the unfortunate fact of life on which
you’ve founded your business, because wherever people
die, there is a demand for mortuary services. You might be
a Pharasmin priest or a secular professional, but your job
is seeing to the body, comforting the bereaved, and making
sure that the deceased goes to their ultimate reward with all
due dignity. Of course, someone in your position sees a lot of
strange deaths, and chances are one of them set you on the
road to adventure.
Choose two ability boosts. One must be to Intelligence or
Wisdom, and one is a free ability boost.
You’re trained in the Medicine skill and a Lore skill
specializing in one local type of undead. You gain the Forensic
Acumen skill feat (Advanced Player’s Guide 206).
WANDERING PREACHER
BACKGROUND
While you once spoke to a small congregation in a
ramshackle church, those days are behind you now. Your
church was destroyed, your congregants scattered, and now
you meander the lands holding a worn copy of your religious
text in one hand, and a fiery conviction in the other.
Choose two ability boosts. One boost must be to
Constitution or Wisdom, and one is a free ability boost.
You’re trained in the Religion skill and a Lore skill
associated with the deity you preach for (such as Pharasmin
Lore). You gain the Pilgrim’s Token skill feat (Advanced
Player’s Guide 208).
WASTE WALKER
BACKGROUND
Whether you grew up in the Mana Wastes or another
similarly desolate place, you quickly learned that only the
strong survive. You and your family were forced to evade
monsters, mutants, wild magic, and worse, as each new day
heralded the possibility of a danger or threat you’d never
seen before. You learned to adapt to the worst possible
conditions and how to forage and survive in a place few
others would dare to live.
Choose two ability boosts. One boost must be to Strength
or Wisdom, and one is a free ability boost.
You’re trained in the Survival skill, and Mana Wastes Lore
(or another similar Lore skill associated with the wastes
where you grew up). You gain the Forager skill feat.
123
123
