Introduction
Gears
Characters
Gears
Equipment
Guns
Characters
Guns
Equipment
The Rotating
Gear
Glossary
And Index
Guns &
GEARS
The beast gun also acts as a conduit, drawing out and
amplifying any latent or active magic power you have. You
learn to cast spontaneous spells and gain the Cast a Spell
activity. You gain a spell repertoire with one cantrip of your
choice, from either the arcane or primal spell list. You choose
this cantrip from the common spells on your chosen spell list
or from other spells you have access to on the list. This cantrip
must require a spell attack roll. You’re trained in spell attack
rolls and spell DCs for arcane or primal spells, whichever of
the two traditions you chose. Your key spellcasting ability for
these spells is Charisma.
If you already cast arcane or primal spells from spell slots,
you learn one additional cantrip from that tradition. If you’re a
prepared caster, you can prepare this spell in addition to your
usual cantrips per day; if you’re a spontaneous caster, you add
this cantrip to your spell repertoire.
You also gain Spellsling.
Spellsling [three-actions] Requirements You’re wielding your bonded
beast gun; Effect You Cast a Spell that takes 1 or 2 actions
to cast and requires a spell attack roll. The effects of the
spell do not occur immediately but are imbued into the
beast gun you’re wielding. Make a Strike with that beast
gun. Your spell flies with the ammunition, using your
attack roll result to determine the effects of both the
Strike and the spell. This counts as two attacks for the
purposes of determining your multiple attack penalty, but
you don’t apply the penalty until after you’ve completed
resolving the attack and spell.
Special You can’t select another dedication feat until you’ve
gained two other feats from the beast gunner archetype.
BASIC BEAST GUNNER SPELLCASTING
FEAT 8
ARCHETYPE
Prerequisites Beast Gunner Dedication
You’ve unlocked the first secrets of beast guns, granting
you the power of their synergistic magic. You gain the basic
spellcasting benefits (Core Rulebook 219). Each time you gain
a spell slot of a new level from this archetype, add a spell of
the appropriate spell level to your repertoire, either a common
spell of your chosen tradition or another spell of that tradition
you’ve learned or discovered.
DRAIN VITALITY [one-action]
FEAT 10
ARCHETYPE
MAGICAL
NECROMANCY
Prerequisites Beast Gunner Dedication
Frequency once per minute
Requirements You’re wielding your bonded beast gun.
You draw out the bestial magic energy within your bonded
beast gun to fortify yourself, purge ongoing harm, and bolster
your life force with a sheath of swirling life essence. You gain
temporary Hit Points equal to your level and attempt a flat
check against any ongoing persistent damage, using the DC
appropriate for particularly effective assistance. Using this
ability depletes the magic within your bonded beast gun,
preventing you from using any of its activated abilities until
the end of your next turn.
EXPERT BEAST GUNNER SPELLCASTING
FEAT 12
ARCHETYPE
Prerequisites Basic Beast Gunner Spellcasting
You’ve learned the deeper secrets of beast guns, making you
an expert in the magic they grant you. You gain the expert
spellcasting benefits (Core Rulebook 219).
CONTROLLED BULLET [two-actions]
FEAT 16
ARCHETYPE
EVOCATION
MAGICAL
Prerequisites Beast Gunner Dedication
Frequency once per day
You create a direct magical connection with your beast gun,
allowing you to guide the beast gun’s next shot by taking
control of the projectile directly, steering it through the air,
and swerving and veering it to continue to hit target after
target. Make a beast gun Strike against a creature within the
first range increment. On a hit, the shot tears through the
target and continues toward another target you can see. You
make a Strike against this new target. The new target must be
no farther from the previous target than a distance equal to
the beast gun’s range increment. For example, the new target
must be within 150 feet of the previous target when attacking
with a drake rifle. On a hit, you can direct the bullet toward a
new target.
You can continue to make Strikes against new targets in
this same way until your attack misses, at which point your
shot dissipates. You can’t make a Strike against a target
you already attacked during this use of Controlled Bullet,
but you can otherwise continue to make attacks against
valid targets until you miss. Each attack counts toward
your multiple attack penalty, but don’t increase your
penalty until you’ve made all your attacks.
MASTER BEAST GUNNER SPELLCASTING
FEAT 18
ARCHETYPE
Prerequisites Expert Beast Gunner Spellcasting
You’ve learned the final truth of beast guns, making you
a master in the magic they grant you. You gain the master
spellcasting benefits (Core Rulebook 219).
CHOOSING YOUR BEAST GUN
A beast gunner’s bond with their beast gun is deep and
mystical, so if you hope to be a successful beast gunner,
it’s important to choose a beast gun that suits your
temperament, magic, and combat style. For example, if
you favor strength and intimidation, a screech shooter is
the right choice for you, whereas a spider gun might be
optimal if you prefer a more careful style of setting up the
battlefield in advance. Similarly, a tentacle cannon is slow
and methodical and can hold an enemy in place at close
range, while a drake rifle is energetic and mobile and can
be used to attack from a great distance. Each beast gun
has a personality and magical abilities that attract people
who value them. For this reason, some experienced beast
gunners say the weapon chooses you.
131
131
