Introduction
Gears
Characters
Gears
Equipment
Guns
Characters
Guns
Equipment
The Rotating
Gear
Glossary
And Index
Guns &
GEARS
from Tian Xia who sought the title of linnorm king. Though
the smith failed to slay the linnorm, he did claim the mighty
dragon’s tooth and fashion it into a magic firearm that still
drips warm venom. Hyldarf survived the encounter with
her attacker and slew the gunsmith years later, though by
then the smith had already bequeathed the weapon to his
chosen heir and it was far out of her grasp. The linnorm still
searches for her missing tooth, portending potential doom
for the weapon’s owner.
The weapon deals an additional 2d6 fire damage on a
successful Strike, plus 3d10 persistent fire damage on a
critical hit. Fire damage dealt by this weapon (including
persistent fire damage and damage from Hyldarf’s Venom)
ignores the target’s fire resistance.
Activate [three-actions] command, envision; Frequency once per day;
Effect You call upon Hyldarf’s power to gain the magic of a
linnorm for a brief time. For 1 minute, you gain the effects
of fly, freedom of movement, and true seeing as well as fire
resistance 20.
Activate [one-action] Interact; Frequency Once per minute; Effect You
soak your shot in the fluid of the fang, imbuing it with
Hyldarf’s venom. The next Strike you make with Hydalf’s
Fang before the end of your next turn delivers the venom
to the target.
Hyldarf’s Venom (fire, injury, poison) Saving Throw DC 34;
Maximum Duration 3 rounds; Stage 1 3d6 fire damage and
sickened 1; Stage 2 6d6 fire damage and sickened 2.
IRIS OF THE SKY
ITEM 6
UNIQUE
EVOCATION
MAGICAL
Price 240 gp
Usage held in 2 hands; Bulk 2
This +1 striking jezail is built from white hot metal and has a
ruby fused into the palm wood stock. When the iris of the sky
misfires, you take 5 persistent fire damage.
The first firearm of this type came as the result of a
gunslinger who entreated an efreeti, wishing for the might of
the desert sun. The weapon constantly glows and burns with
a brilliant intensity. The firearm has since belonged to an
extensive string of users and been replicated several times,
though each wielder of the weapon, whether the original or
one of its copies, has eventually ended up as a charred husk,
slain by fire in battle or unusual accidents that no one could
quite explain except, perhaps, the efreet.
Activate [one-action] envision; Frequency once per minute; Effect You
focus the solar energy housed in the ruby to release a gout
of solar flame instead of a bullet. Make a Strike with the
iris of the sky. All damage from this Strike is fire damage
and the target takes an additional 1d6 fire damage and 1d6
persistent fire damage.
Activate [two-actions] command, envision (fortune); Frequency once
per minute; Effect You make a wish into the iris of the sky,
yearning for it to strike true, and then fire. Strike against
a foe with the iris, rolling the attack roll twice and taking
the better result. If the attack is a failure, you take 5
persistent fire damage.
MOUNTEBANK’S PASSAGE
ITEM 15
UNIQUE
CONJURATION
MAGICAL
Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk 1
This +2 greater striking flintlock pistol has the odd
construction of possessing two triggers, one of soapstone
and one of onyx, clearly separated with individual trigger
guards. Originally created by a student at Blythir College
in Alkenstar, the mountebank’s passage has the ability to
create temporary linked portals on existing surfaces. The
weapon disappeared shortly after its invention, but rumors
have circulated that it now belongs to a group of thieves who
use it to commit impossible robberies.
Activate [one-action] Interact; Requirements the mountebank’s
passage isn’t loaded; Effect You pull the soapstone
trigger. Choose a vertical surface within 120 feet. A beam
of white energy crackles to the vertical surface and
creates a white portal on that surface. Any creature who
moves through the white portal comes out through the
mountebank’s passage’s black portal, if one exists on the
same plane. Using this activation causes any previous
white portal to disappear, even if you don’t create a new
portal; otherwise, the portal lasts until your next daily
preparations.
 Activate [one-action] Interact; Requirements the mountebank’s
passage isn’t loaded; Effect You pull the onyx trigger.
Choose a vertical surface within 120 feet. A beam of black
energy crackles to the vertical surface and creates a black
portal on that surface. Any creature who moves through
the black portal comes out through the mountebank’s
passage’s white portal, if one exists on the same plane.
Using this activation causes any previous black portal to
disappear; even if you don’t create a new portal; otherwise,
the portal lasts until your next daily preparations.
REAPER’S GRASP
ITEM 11
UNIQUE
EVIL
MAGICAL
NECROMANCY
Usage held in 2 hands; Bulk 2
This +2 striking arquebus has an ashwood stock plated with
worked silver, featuring a mosaic of agonized skulls carved
into the metal. The mere mention of Galt’s infamous final
blades is enough to make any mortal creature shudder. Used
to execute political opponents in the nation’s constant civil
war, these guillotines hold the souls of those they execute,
preventing them from reaching a natural afterlife. When
one of the final blades was destroyed in 4710, some of the
metal from its remains made its way to Alkenstar and was
reforged into a deadly firearm that retained the guillotine’s
soul-stealing properties.
Whenever the reaper’s grasp kills a sapient living or
undead creature, a portion of that creature’s soul is drawn
inexorably into the weapon, and another skull is added to
the mosaic as if scrawled by an invisible hand, to a maximum
of 10 souls. Creatures whose souls are protected by outside
forces, such as a lich’s soul cage, are immune to this
effect, though the process, while painful, does not prevent
the soul from going to the afterlife or being resurrected.
165
165
