Introduction
Gears
Gears
Equipment
Gunslingers
and
Shootists
Guns and
Black
Powder
Equipment
Guns and
Gears on
Golarion
Glossary
and Index
Guns &
GEARS
Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk L
Activate [two-actions] Interact
A galvasphere animates a corpse to motion via electricity,
rather than necromancy. When you Activate the galvasphere
by inserting it into an adjacent intact Medium or Small
humanoid corpse, the corpse animates as a galvaheart
zombie for 1 minute. The galvaheart zombie has the
statistics of a zombie shambler except that it is
a construct instead of an undead, isn’t evil,
can’t be harmed by positive energy, and is
the same size as the corpse (Medium or
Small). The zombie is your minion and
performs the actions you choose
when you Command it. If you don’t
Command it, it takes no action,
twitching in place as the electricity
that animates it slowly expends itself.
SHOCKGUARD COIL
ITEM 10
RARE
CONSUMABLE
EVOCATION
MAGICAL TALISMAN
Price 175 gp
Usage affixed to a shield
Activate [free-action] Interact; Trigger You Shield Block a foe’s melee
unarmed attack or melee attack with the affixed shield.
This miniature Stasian coil talisman emits small sparks when
jostled. It uses a combination of Stasian technology and
evocation magic to erupt in electricity when discharged.
When you activate the coil, the foe takes 2d12 electricity
damage (DC 27 basic Reflex save). On a failed save, the foe is
flat-footed until the start of its next turn.
SPIRIT-SINGER
ITEM 5+
RARE
Etheric spirit-singers create an eerie spectral sound based on
the presence of spiritual essence and other ethereal
energies. All spirit-singers can be used as musical
instruments by manipulating the sensitivity to
ethereal energies. However, they have an even
greater benefit in areas heavy with spiritual
essence. When played in the presence of a
significant spiritual disturbance, such as
a haunt or an incorporeal undead, a
spirit‑singer grants you a +1 item
bonus to Performance checks. While
playing a spirit-singer, you also
gain a +1 item bonus to checks to
detect a haunt or incorporeal undead,
and you can roll a check to notice a haunt
even if you aren’t actively Searching for it, due to
the distortions of the spirit-singer’s music. A haunt or
incorporeal undead that is intelligent enough to notice
the effects it is having on the spirit-singer’s music and that
can’t otherwise communicate with the living might choose
to use the spirit-singer to do so if it wishes. For instance, it
could try to guide the spirit-singer player towards a location
by creating distortions in that direction or, if it understands
language, it could try to answer questions by creating one
distortion for yes and two distortions for no. Unless stated
otherwise in its usage entry, a spirit-singer functions like
a heavy musical instrument; rather than carrying it, the
musician places the spirit‑singer in a particular position and
uses both hands to play.
Type spirit-singer; Level 5; Price 150 gp; Bulk 16
Type handheld spirit-singer; Level 6; Price 200
gp; Usage held in two hands; Bulk 1
Type incredible spirit-singer; Level 11; Price
1,250 gp; Bulk 16
This spirit-singer is fine-tuned to the
point that you can analyze its song more
intricately. Increase the item bonus to
Performance checks near spiritual
disturbances, and the item bonus to
detecting haunts and incorporeal undead
to +2. While playing the spirit-singer, you
can notice haunts that normally require you to
have a master proficiency in Perception to detect.
Type incredible handheld spirit-singer; Level 12;
Price 1,650 gp; Usage held in two hands; Bulk 1
This spirit-singer functions just like an incredible spirit-singer,
except for its Usage and Bulk.
VIOLET RAY
ITEM 12
RARE
Price 1,893 gp
Usage held in 2 hands; Bulk 2
One of the many wondrous devices brought into the world
by Stasian technology is the seemingly miraculous violet ray.
Physicians claim it anything from headaches to heartburn, or
nausea to deafness, all with an easy and painless treatment.
The device is a glass vacuum with an insulated handle
connected to a small Stasian coil. When powered, the glass
tube fills with purple light and becomes warm to the
touch. Pressing the tube to one’s body is
said to increase blood flow, eliminate
toxins, and many other beneficial
effects. A violet ray functions as a set
of healer’s tools and provides a +2 item
bonus to Medicine checks to Administer
First Aid, Treat Disease, Treat Poison, or
Treat Wounds.
Activate [three-actions] Interact; Frequency once
per day; Effect You apply the violet ray
to an adjacent creature and attempt to
counteract the blinded, clumsy, confused,
deafened, drained, enfeebled, sickened, or
stupefied condition with a counteract level of 6 and
a counteract modifier of +22, using the source of the
condition to determine the condition’s counteract level
and DC. If the condition was caused by an ongoing effect
and you don’t remove that effect, the condition returns
after 1 minute. Each use of this ability can only counteract
a single condition.
83
83
Shockguard Coil
Violet Ray
