rank for your gunslinger class DC increases to master.
When using a ranged weapon in which you have master
or greater proficiency, you ignore the penalty for attacking
within the weapon’s second and third range increments.
INCREDIBLE SENSES
19TH
You notice things that most people can’t detect. Your
proficiency rank for Perception increases to legendary.
MEDIUM ARMOR MASTERY
19TH
Your skill with light and medium armor improves,
increasing your ability to dodge or absorb blows. Your
proficiency ranks for light armor, medium armor, and
unarmored defense increase to master.
Gunslinger Ways
You learn a particular fighting style, known as a way. Your
way grants a series of deeds, access to feats, proficiency
with a skill, and a special reload action, all of which help
shape and influence the way you affect the battlefield.
The ways available to all gunslingers are described below.
WAY OF THE DRIFTER
You’re a wanderer traveling from land to land with your
gun and a melee weapon as company. Maybe you learned
to fight with blade and pistol as a Shackles pirate, mastered
the hand cannon and katana in Minkai, or practiced with
a hatchet and clan pistol in Dongun Hold. You win battles
by relying on mobility and flexible use of your weapons.
Slinger’s Reload Reloading Strike
Deeds Initial Into the Fray; Advanced Finish the Job; Greater
Drifter’s Wake
Way Skill Acrobatics
Slinger’s Reload
RELOADING STRIKE [one-action]
GUNSLINGER
Requirements You’re wielding a firearm or crossbow in one
hand, and your other hand either wields a one-handed
melee weapon or is empty.
You make a melee attack and then reload your gun in one
fluid movement. Strike an opponent within reach with your
one‑handed melee weapon (or, if your other hand is empty,
with an unarmed attack), and then Interact to reload. You
don’t need a free hand to reload in this way.
Initial Deed
INTO THE FRAY [free-action]
GUNSLINGER
Trigger You roll initiative.
You know trouble can lurk around every corner, and your
hands never stray far from your holsters. You can Interact
to draw a one-handed ranged weapon and can then Interact
to draw a one-handed melee weapon. As your first action
on your first turn, you can Stride as a free action toward
an enemy you can perceive. If you can’t perceive any
enemies or can’t end your movement closer to one,
you can’t use this Stride.
Advanced Deed
9th
FINISH THE JOB [one-action]
GUNSLINGER
Requirements On your last action, you failed (but didn’t
critically fail) a Strike with a firearm or crossbow you’re
holding in one hand, and your other hand is either wielding
a melee weapon or empty.
Your last attack failed, but it set you up for another. Make
a Strike with your other hand, using a one-handed melee
108
108
