Introduction
Gears
Characters
Gears
Equipment
Guns
Characters
Guns
Equipment
The Rotating
Gear
Glossary
And Index
Guns &
GEARS
Your enemies think they can concentrate on something else
while you’re nearby? Oh, you’ll give them a distraction, all
right! Make a melee Strike against the triggering creature
with a weapon or unarmed attack that is benefiting from your
offensive boost. This Strike doesn’t count toward your multiple
attack penalty, and your multiple attack penalty doesn’t apply
to this Strike.
Unstable Function You pull out all the stops to create an
explosive distraction. Add the unstable trait to Distracting
Explosion. If the attack hits, you disrupt the triggering
concentrate action.
Special If your innovation is a minion, it can take this
reaction instead of you, even though minions can’t normally
take reactions or act when it’s not their turn. It uses your
reaction for the turn to do so.
ELECTRIFY ARMOR [one-action]
FEAT 10
INVENTOR
MANIPULATE
Prerequisites armor innovation
Requirements You are wearing your armor innovation.
You electrify your armor to punish foes who dare to attack
you. For 1 round, any creature that touches you, or that
hits you with a melee unarmed attack or a non-reach melee
weapon attack, takes 1d4 electricity damage. The effect ends
if you cease wearing your armor innovation.
If you have the revolutionary innovation class feature, the
damage increases to 2d4.
Unstable Function You create an unstable chain reaction,
sending countless sparks dancing across your armor. Add
the unstable trait to Electrify Armor. The effects last for 1
minute instead of 1 round, and the damage dice increase
from d4s to d12s.
HELPFUL TINKERING [one-action]
FEAT 10
INVENTOR
MANIPULATE
Prerequisites offensive boost
Frequency once per 10 minutes
You don’t just tinker with your own innovation, you
fiddle with your allies’ weapons as well (for their benefit,
of course). Choose an ally in your reach and one of their
weapons. Attempt a Crafting check against a high DC for
your level.
Success For 1 minute, the chosen ally’s Strikes with the
chosen weapon gain the same offensive boost your
innovation has.
Critical Failure Your ally takes damage of the type and
amount that your offensive boost normally deals on a
successful Strike.
LOCK ON [one-action]
FEAT 10
INVENTOR
Prerequisites construct innovation
Aha! You lock on to your enemy’s weak point to assist
your construct companion in destroying it. When you Lock
On, designate an enemy you can see. If your next action
is to Command your construct, the construct gains a +2
circumstance bonus to attack rolls against the designated
enemy until the end of the turn. If you use 2 actions for the
Command, the bonus is instead a +3 circumstance bonus, or a
+4 circumstance bonus if you’re legendary in Crafting.
12TH LEVEL
BOOST MODULATION
FEAT 12
INVENTOR
MANIPULATE
Prerequisites offensive boost
You aren’t satisfied with keeping to just one kind of boost
from your constant tinkering, so you’ve learned to modulate
between several possibilities at once. Choose two additional
offensive boosts (page 22). You can use an Interact action to
change the offensive boost currently affecting your weapon,
choosing between the one you chose for the class feature and
the two you chose for this modification. If your weapon has
the modular trait, you can swap the offensive boost as part of
the Interact action you take to use that trait.
CONTINGENCY GADGETS
FEAT 12
INVENTOR
Prerequisites Gadget Specialist
You are too brilliant to be caught off guard, and you always
have just the right gadget for the situation. When you
prepare your gadgets during your daily preparations, you
can choose to leave one of them as a contingency gadget
that you keep ready for just this situation, rather than
declaring which gadget you’re making. You can pull the
contingency gadget out using an Interact action, at which
point you must choose which gadget you had prepared as
a contingency.
If you’re legendary in Crafting, you can leave two
contingency gadgets during your daily preparations, instead
of just one.
DEEP FREEZE [two-actions]
FEAT 12
COLD
INVENTOR
MANIPULATE
You vent a jet of supercooled fluid from your innovation,
damaging a foe and slowing it down. Target one creature
within 60 feet. That creature takes cold damage equal to your
level, with effects depending on its Reflex save.
Critical Success The target is unaffected.
Success The target takes half damage and takes a –5-foot
status penalty to its Speeds for 1 round.
Failure The target takes full damage and takes a –10-foot
status penalty to its Speeds for 1 round.
Critical Failure The target takes double damage, is slowed 1
for 1 round, and takes a –15-foot status penalty to its Speeds
for 1 round.
Unstable Function Your innovation discharges an enormous
cone of supercooled fluid, potentially causing cascading
failures. Add the unstable trait to Deep Freeze. The ability
affects all creatures within a 60-foot cone instead of a single
target, and it deals cold damage equal to double your level
instead of equal to your level.
29
29
