Introduction
Gears
Characters
Gears
Equipment
Guns
Characters
Guns
Equipment
The Rotating
Gear
Glossary
And Index
Guns &
GEARS
Ranchers must keep their great herds of livestock on the
move to ensure they’re adequately fed before being driven
to market. The land’s few rivers are a vital source of life,
as all flow into the undrinkable Lake Tapipallati. Most
large towns are built on rivers; some, such as Carama
on the Carama River, span a waterway with a series of
wooden footbridges crowded with shops, market stalls,
inns, and fishing platforms. Despite picturesque bridges
and crowded piers, these rivers are far from docile.
Aquatic dangers on these waterways pose as much
trouble as bandits on stagecoach lines.
Tale-telling is a strong Tazunian tradition. Visitors are
expected to tell stories of past exploits, whether their own
or another’s, real or exaggerated. Stories are expected to
be free; thus, many bards and other storytellers must also
gamble at dice or cards in dusty saloons to make ends meet.
Headstone Rolsk, a cunning stone giant necromancer
who collects tombstones and hurls them at his foes,
recently combined several human and halfling gangs under
his brutal leadership, and supplemented the growing
Headstone Gang with ghouls he’s animated. Rolsk is
rumored to be stepping up the Headstone Gang’s activities
from robbery and livestock butchery to assaults on
towns. The feckless sheriff of New Hayewood, Brondell
Chanrodine, actively ignores rumors of Rolsk’s movement
near his town, much to the dismay of the townspeople.
THREE CRATERS
A massive city-state situated between three large lakes in
north-central Arcadia, Three Craters is one of Arcadia’s
largest metropolises. Its soot-belching factories produce
technological marvels unequaled in Arcadia, and perhaps
across the world. The ruling Smog Lords do their best
to assert control over the region, but their constant
infighting undercuts the draconian authority they crave.
Three Craters is exceptionally cosmopolitan; in addition
to extensive trade connections with the cities of High
Klesh, Latwaria, and Grassbutte in neighboring nations,
Three Craters has extensive dealings with the region
known as the Land of Northern Lakes to the northeast.
Three Craters has a virtually unending appetite for ore
with which to construct its technology. The Smog Lords
employ undersea miners who pull ore from the waters
of the three surrounding lakes (the pristine Moon’s Tear,
murky Oilpan, and misty Lake Awnkawak) and control
mining interests in the eastern Crownpeaks. Trade
agreements with the skymetal-rich Land of Northern Lakes
bring staggeringly valuable shipments along iron-cobbled
and heavily patrolled roads to the east.
Although most denizens of Three Craters are humans,
sizable populations of halflings, ratfolk, and an insectile
race called klinkois also live here. People divide much
more often by social class rather than ancestry and thus
mix frequently. Firearms are common enough that nearly
everyone knows how to maintain and operate one, and
bows are viewed as quaint and anachronistic.
DEADSHOT LANDS TIMELINE
The Deadshot Lands is not the only large, thematically
linked region in Arcadia. (The Primal League to the north,
the Land of Northern Lakes to the northeast, Salt Stretch
to the south, and Fallen Razatlan to the southeast are
some of many others.) The following are some key dates
in the history of the Deadshot Lands.
–5923 ar
Earthfall; skymetal rains down over many
regions of Arcadia.
–5111 ar
The last definitive contact with a Crowned
Regent is recorded.
–4949 ar
After helping the dwarves find the surface,
orcs migrate into the Deadshot Lands and
settle with indigenous humans dwelling in
the Illani Plains.
–3009 ar
Ninebranches is founded in Briarbough.
–2602 ar
Imperialist Razatlan invades Briarbough,
burning a section known today as Firescar.
2973 ar
Air-powered guns are developed in Three
Craters.
4077 ar
The six Smog Lords take over production
across Three Craters.
4399 ar
The Oil Nomads, an army of grease-covered
constructs, assault Three Craters but are
driven back, cementing the rule of the Smog
Lords (who are now dozens in number); the
constructs’ residue permanently taints the
lake now called Oilpan.
4473 ar
Followers of Pazuzu take over Halana,
establishing the Halana Theocracy.
4675 ar
Antimoks, distant relatives to yetis, destroy
the town of Wide Shelf in the Crownpeaks;
it’s rebuilt the following spring as Picket
Shelf, with better defenses.
4691 ar
The Firescar Bombers unite and begin
raiding Briarbough.
4699 ar
Antimoks demolish three outposts in the
Crownpeaks; the scholar Fowalka Churrick
posits a 24-year cycle of antimok ravages.
4710 ar
A technological boom in firearm design
leads to new guns forged from skymetal
spreading throughout the Deadshot Lands.
4716 ar
Mivanians of the Halana Theocracy expose a
group of supposed rebels and execute them
by dropping them into town squares across
the region from thousands of feet in the air;
secret resistance to the theocracy grows.
4719 ar
A tenacious plague appears in the cities of
Grassbutte and Latwaria.
4721 ar
Headstone Rolsk gathers all the tombstones
and corpses in the New Hayewood Cemetery
and retreats with them... for now.
211
211
