Beast Gunner
The art of creating the weapons most commonly referred
to as “beast guns” (page 154) is truly ancient, with the
first iterations of the weapons created on the continent
of Arcadia well over 10,000 years ago. This means that
beast guns predate all other forms of firearm crafting
in Arcadia, even the legendary star guns, whose secrets
have been lost to the ages. The tradition of designing
beast guns has persisted throughout Arcadia well into
the modern era, though it has become increasingly rare
as the proliferation of classic firearms and the prestige
associated with star guns has allowed more people access
to equivalent destructive power without the intense
requirements behind crafting a beast gun. However, beast
gunners remain virtually unknown outside of Arcadia.
The art of bonding to a beast gun and gaining the
full magic of a beast gunner is an extended ritual with
multiple steps, beginning with the hunt. A person seeking
to bond to a beast gun typically does so with a brand
new weapon made after they hunt down the creature
themselves. This involves telling the story of the hunt, the
beast, and the weapon created from the hunted creature.
Finally, the weapon is carefully modified and tailored
to ensure a proper bond between the beast gun and the
prospective beast gunner. However, it’s also possible to
bond to an heirloom beast gun passed down through the
generations by adding symbolic fresh components from
the same kind of creature, after performing the same
ritual hunt necessary to forge a new weapon with the
intent of establishing a bond.
To perform the ritual the prospective beast gunner
must first plan a hunt to slay the creature corresponding
to the beast gun, whether they wish to bond with a brand
new beast gun or establish a link to an old beast gun.
Typically, these ritualized hunts can include up to five
assistants plus hunting beasts like canines or birds who
help corner the beast and bring it down. If the assistants
are significantly more powerful than the hunted creature,
or if there are so many assistants the creature never stood
a chance at survival, the magic simply fails during the
bonding process and the hunt and organic materials
are wasted, usually much to the shame and chagrin of
the hunter. The same doesn’t apply if the prospective
beast gunner hunts the creature alone, even if they are
significantly more powerful than the creature, such that
the creature never stood a chance against them in a one
on one fight.
You’re one of those who successfully completed the
hunt and bonded with your prized weapon. Now, you
seek to discover the hidden depths that others who think
they know how to use beast guns can only imagine.
Additional Feats: 8th Call Gun (page 141)
BEAST GUNNER DEDICATION
FEAT 6
UNCOMMON
DEDICATION
DEDICATION
ARCHETYPE
DEDICATION
MAGICAL
Prerequisites expert with at least one type of firearm, trained
in Arcana or Crafting, you own a beast gun and have slain
the type of creature associated with your beast gun in a fair
hunt (see above)
You’ve bonded to your beast gun and unlocked the first hints of
its hidden potential. You treat all beast guns as martial firearms
when determining your proficiency with them, even beast guns
that are normally advanced weapons. You can change your
bonded beast gun to another beast gun you own each day
during your daily preparations, as long as you’ve previously
performed a ritual hunt associated with the new beast gun.
130
130
