Introduction
Gears
Characters
Gears
Equipment
Guns
Characters
Guns
Equipment
The Rotating
Gear
Glossary
And Index
Guns &
GEARS
polymorph (trait) These effects transform the target into
a new form. A target can’t be under the effect of more
than one polymorph effect at a time. If it comes under
the effect of a second polymorph effect, the second
polymorph effect attempts to counteract the first. If it
succeeds, it takes effect, and if it fails, the spell has no
effect on that target. Any Strikes specifically granted by
a polymorph effect are magical. Unless otherwise stated,
polymorph spells don’t allow the target to take on the
appearance of a specific individual creature, but rather
just a generic creature of a type or ancestry.
If you take on a battle form with a polymorph spell,
the special statistics can be adjusted only by circumstance
bonuses, status bonuses, and penalties. Unless otherwise
noted, the battle form prevents you from casting spells,
speaking, and using most manipulate actions that require
hands. (If there’s doubt about whether you can use an
action, the GM decides.) Your gear is absorbed into you;
the constant abilities of your gear still function, but you
can’t activate any items.
portable (siege weapon trait) Portable siege weapons, such as
battering rams, can be more easily carried and have a role
in both warfare and smaller conflicts or exploration. 73–74
primal (trait) This magic comes from the primal
tradition, connecting to the natural world
and instinct. Anything with this trait is
magical. CR 299
ranged trip (weapon trait) This weapon
can be used to Trip with the Athletics
skill at a distance up to the weapon’s
first range increment. The skill check
takes a –2 circumstance penalty. You
can add the weapon’s item bonus to
attack rolls as a bonus to the check.
As with using a melee weapon to trip, a
ranged trip doesn’t deal any damage when
used to Trip. This trait usually appears only on
a thrown weapon. 17, APG 248
rare (trait) This rarity indicates that a rules element is very
difficult to find in the game world. A rare feat, spell, item
or the like is available to players only if the GM decides
to include it in the game, typically through discovery
during play. CR 13
reach (weapon trait) This weapon is long and can be used
to attack creatures up to 10 feet away instead of only
adjacent creatures. For creatures that already have
reach with the limb or limbs that wield the weapon, the
weapon increases their reach by 5 feet. CR 283
reckless (trait) Actions with the reckless trait run the risk of
the pilot losing control of a vehicle. When performing a
reckless action, the pilot must first attempt an appropriate
piloting check to keep control of the vehicle. 48
repeating (weapon trait) These weapons can’t be loaded
with individual bolts or bullets like other crossbows and
firearms; instead, they require a magazine of specialized
ammunition to be loaded into a special slot. Once that
magazine is in place, the ammunition is automatically
loaded each time the weapon is cocked to fire, reducing
its reload to the value in its reload entry (typically 0).
When the ammunition runs out, a new magazine must be
loaded, which requires a free hand and 3 Interact actions
(to remove the old magazine, retrieve the new magazine,
and slot the new magazine in place). These actions don’t
need to be consecutive. 62, 152
scatter (weapon trait) This weapon fires a cluster of pellets
in a wide spray. Scatter always has an area listed with it,
indicating the radius of the spray. On a hit, the primary
target of attacks with a scatter weapon take the listed
damage, and the target and all other creatures
within the listed radius around it take
1 point of splash damage per weapon
damage die. 152
scope (item) Scopes are a type of item
that can be attached to a firearm or
crossbow. Only one scope can be attached
to a weapon at a time. 180–182
shove (weapon trait) You can use this weapon to
Shove with the Athletics skill even if you don’t have
a free hand. This uses the weapon’s reach (if different
from your own) and adds the weapon’s item bonus to
attack rolls as an item bonus to the Athletics check. If
you critically fail a check to Shove using the weapon,
you can drop the weapon to take the effects of a
failure instead of a critical failure.
siege weapons Siege weapons are powerful devices used for
large-scale warfare. They are similar to vehicles and can
be operated by one or more individuals. 72–77, 172–177
skill (trait) A general feat with the skill trait improves your
skills and their actions or gives you new actions for a
skill. A feat with this trait can be selected when a class
grants a skill feat or general feat. Archetype feats with
the skill trait can be selected in place of a skill feat if you
have that archetype’s dedication feat. CR 233–253
sleep (trait) This effect can cause a creature to fall asleep
or get drowsy.
235
235
