for a technological revolution. Knowing that Dongun
Hold’s access to the surface was being closed with
the intent to never reopen, the Kulenett provided the
black powder with the intent that it could serve as a
food preservative that would also give the foodstuffs a
peppery bite when eventually consumed. The powder’s
explosive properties were an incidental reality, though
not one that went unnoticed in Dongun Hold.
Over the following centuries, dwarves of Dongun
Hold learned to recreate and then further perfect
several of their own new recipes for black powder,
eventually recreating the stronger and more volatile
blend kept secret in Tian Xia. Their discoveries as
they experimented led to better explosives for mining,
powerful black powder traps to protect their tunnels,
and ultimately, their first modern black powder
firearms. Dedicated perfectionists who had already
survived one war while under constant threat from
Darklands factions, Dongun Hold dwarves innovated
rapidly, producing pistols and muskets in various
forms and configurations and soon creating entire
elite military units of long gun–wielding snipers and
armored vanguards with blunderbusses.
The forges and processes for arming the soldiers of
Dongun Hold would later expand dramatically when
a human wanderer by the name of Ancil Alkenstar
sought, and received, audience with High King Anong
Arunak of Dongun Hold, spurring yet another leap
forward in the development of firearms. As Dongun
Hold’s surface-facing gates opened for the first time in
millennia and the duchy of Alkenstar was established,
human ingenuity met with dwarven craftsmanship
for the first time in the history of firearms and black
powder on Golarion. The result was an explosive
period of discovery and growth in firearm technology.
This period bred innovations like the crank-handle
pepperbox and threaded breech for quickly reloading
arquebuses, making firearms both more accessible and
more practical for use as personal defense weapons.
The arquebus in particular became perhaps one of
the most favored weapons for both military and
personal use against the enormous monstrosities that
haunt the Mana Wastes. The name arquebus refers
to the hooked mechanisms usually attached to the
underside of the weapons and used to mount them on
defensive fortifications as a means of mitigating their
enormous kickback.
FIREARMS ON MODERN GOLARION
Today, firearms are still relatively uncommon across
Golarion and only available from less than a handful
of sources in the Inner Sea. However, magic and
clockwork technologies have advanced and evolved
firearm innovations in unique and remarkable ways
only possible on a world like Golarion. While many
of the firearms currently produced in Golarion share
names and basic functions with counterparts from
Earth’s history, they often feature mechanisms that
weren’t uncovered until later in our history and
refinements that never happened or never proliferated.
On Earth, such firearms were discarded predominantly
in favor of more advanced technology that Golarion
has not yet discovered how to reproduce or has had no
need to replicate.
In Alkenstar, most firearms are crafted with a
flintlock firing mechanism and folding breech, a hinged
barrel that allows the weapon to be quickly opened
and reloaded with new prepackaged paper cartridges
of powder and shot. Alkenstar also hosts a thriving
industry of smiths who focus their ingenuity and
creativity on singular elements of firearms, such as
specialized firing mechanisms and scopes both magical
and scientific in nature and function.
In Dongun Hold, the steady and methodical process
of iteration and refinement continues, spurred on by
a determination not to be shown up by their human
neighbors in Alkenstar and to retain their reputation
as the preeminent gunsmiths on Golarion. The
scatterguns produced in Dongun Hold are some of
the most powerful and sought-after firearms in the
Inner Sea, using a simple but ingenious clockwork
system built directly into the weapon to eject a firing
FIREARMS AND ACCESS
In the world of Golarion, firearms and black powder
weaponry remain largely limited to specific regions.
In Avistan, reckless scientists and innovative undead
hunters in the nation of Ustalav have championed a
technological renaissance, spurring the development of
basic but effective muskets copied off Alkenstar originals
and, in the process, creating a burgeoning market for
silver bullets and bayonets. In the Shackles, Motaku Isle
Ironworks continues to pump out shoddy, but deadly,
replicas of firearms and cannons stolen from Alkenstar,
as well as create new (usually unstable) black powder
weaponry. Alkenstar itself boasts the premier black
powder gunsmiths on the planet and is the undisputed
center of modern innovation for firearm accessories.
In Tian Xia, the nations of Goka, Ling Shen, Po Li, and
Quain have long worked with black powder, using it to
spur other technological advancements. The continent
of Arcadia has seen decades of relatively uninterrupted
peace and might contain more gunslingers than the rest
of Golarion combined, though their firearms are a more
diverse array of magical star guns, technological air
guns, and ceremonial beast guns, with no black powder
whatsoever. Characters from these regions have access
to the gunslinger class and firearms. Other than Arcadia,
they have access to black powder siege weapons if
the GM has opened up siege weapons as an option for
the campaign.
148
148
