FIRE BOX
SNARE 3
UNCOMMON
CLOCKWORK
CONSUMABLE
FIRE
MECHANICAL SNARE
TRAP
Price 10 gp
Anyone who opens the box triggers a clockwork mechanism
that unleashes a 15-foot cone of fire. The cone issues forth
in a random direction determined by the GM but always
including the creature who opened the box. Those within
the cone must succeed at a DC 17 basic Reflex save or take
4d6 fire damage.
FROST WORM SNARE
SNARE 9
UNCOMMON
CLOCKWORK
COLD
CONSUMABLE MECHANICAL SNARE
TRAP
Price 115 gp
The snare takes the form of a Tiny frost worm clockwork
toy. When a creature enters its square, the snare activates,
causing the worm to let loose a 30-foot line of frost in the
direction from which the creature entered the square. For
instance, if a creature entered the square coming from
the south, the worm would shoot the line south, to hit
any allies of the triggering creature. Those within the line
must succeed a DC 25 basic Reflex save or take 10d6 cold
damage. After spitting its frost, the snare falls apart.
NOISEMAKER SNARE
SNARE 2
UNCOMMON
CLOCKWORK
CONSUMABLE
FIRE
MECHANICAL SNARE
TRAP
Price 6 gp
When a creature enters this snare’s square, it triggers an
extremely loud clockwork device, which explodes with a
bang that can be heard from 200 feet away and deals 1d8
fire damage. The creature must attempt a DC 18 Reflex save.
Critical Success The creature is unaffected.
Success The creature takes half damage.
Failure The creature takes full damage and is deafened for 1
round.
Critical Failure The creature takes double damage and is
deafened for 1 minute.
PUFF DRAGON
SNARE 9
UNCOMMON
CLOCKWORK
CONSUMABLE MECHANICAL POISON
SNARE
TRAP
Price 120 gp
This cute and unassuming dragon toy activates once a creature
moves into its square. It then unleashes a rapid burst of toxic
gas in a 10-foot emanation. Those within the emanation when
the snare is activated must attempt a DC 25 Fortitude saving
throw or take 3d6 poison damage.
Critical Success The creature is unaffected.
Success The creature takes half damage.
Failure The creature takes full damage and is sickened 1.
Critical Failure The creature takes double damage and is
sickened 2.
SHRAPNEL SNARE
SNARE 14
UNCOMMON
CONSUMABLE MECHANICAL SNARE
TRAP
Price 700 gp
This snare uses tightly wound springs, clockwork, and
shrapnel to cause devastating damage. When a creature
enters the snare’s square, the trap releases, dealing 12d6
piercing damage in a deafening explosion. Everyone in a
10-foot radius of the snare’s square must attempt a DC 31
Reflex save.
Critical Success The creature in unaffected,
Success The creature takes half damage and is deafened for
1 round.
Failure The creature takes full damage, 2d6 persistent piercing
damage, and is deafened for 1 minute.
Critical Failure The creature takes double damage, 4d6
persistent piercing damage, and is deafened for 1 minute.
SPIRIT SNARE
SNARE 8
RARE
CONSUMABLE
ELECTRICITY
MECHANICAL
SNARE
TRAP
Price 90 gp
This complicated snare is affixed with various crystals and
Stasian coils attached to strange electrical relays, working
STRANGE NEW METHODS
Many inventors’ creations seem to defy reality. This
is made possible by their constant scientific study of
the various monumental powers that manifest upon
Golarion. While wizards have their formulas, clerics
their rituals, and occult casters their strange secrets,
inventors search for what they call the hidden laws of
reality. They believe mundane reality, untouched by the
mysteries of magic, has its own set of laws that are
for the most part unknown. For example, what makes
electricity choose its exact crackling path? It must
follow some kind of law.
Exactly what these laws are and how they should
be explained is a matter of debate. Many inventors
continue practices common to alchemists, where
they codify their research with strange symbols and
secret codes, believing the best way to protect their
craft, prestige, secrets, and income is to avoid sharing
their wildest theories with others. But there are more
openminded individuals, usually living in cosmopolitan
centers, who think sharing their secrets and having
peers assess their methods of research will benefit the
people of their kingdom, perhaps even the world. They
believe collaboration will lead to better explanations
and answers to the mysteries of these natural laws.
And while these naturalist societies are small and
secluded, most of their members believe that they and
those like them are on the right track toward solving
the mysteries of the multiverse. While wizards and
other academic spellcasters appreciate their rigor, they
believe the idea of separating the laws of mundane
reality from magic is an absurd and pointless constraint,
especially given that magical essences underpin the
very fabric of reality. For their part, naturalists believe
these spellcasters are missing the point.
80
80
