Introduction
Gears
Characters
Gears
Equipment
Guns
Characters
Guns
Equipment
The Rotating
Gear
Glossary
And Index
Guns &
GEARS
GRIT AND TENACITY [reaction]
FEAT 8
FORTUNE
GUNSLINGER
Frequency once per hour
Trigger You fail a Fortitude or Will save.
You call upon deep reserves of toughness and mental fortitude
to power through an otherwise debilitating effect. Reroll the
triggering save with a +2 circumstance bonus; you must use
the second result.
LEAP AND FIRE
FEAT 8
GUNSLINGER
Prerequisites Hit the Dirt!
You’re quick enough to line up a shot even while diving to
the ground. When you use your Hit the Dirt! reaction, at any
point during your Leap you can also make a ranged Strike with
a loaded firearm or crossbow, targeting the creature whose
attack triggered the reaction.
SMOKE CURTAIN [two-actions]
FEAT 8
GUNSLINGER
Requirements You’re wielding a loaded firearm and are
wearing or holding a dose of black powder.
You load an extra dose of powder into your shot, causing it to
belch a cloud of smoke. You make a Strike with your firearm
and create a cloud of smoke in a 20-foot emanation centered on
your location. Creatures are concealed while within the smoke,
and creatures outside the area are concealed to creatures within
the smoke. The smoke dissipates at the start of your next turn.
If your Strike is a critical failure, your firearm misfires.
STAB AND BLAST [one-action]
FEAT 8
FLOURISH
GUNSLINGER
Requirements You’re wielding a firearm with an attached
bayonet or reinforced stock, a fire lance, or a combination
weapon.
You slice or smash your opponent with the melee portion of
your weapon before pulling the trigger at point-blank range.
Make a melee Strike with the required weapon. If the Strike is
successful, you can immediately make a ranged Strike against
the same target with a +2 circumstance bonus to the attack
roll. This counts as two attacks toward your multiple attack
penalty, but you don’t apply the multiple attack penalty until
after making both attacks.
10TH LEVEL
CALLED SHOT [two-actions]
FEAT 10
FLOURISH
GUNSLINGER
You target a specific area of your foe’s anatomy to debilitating
effect. Declare a part of your foe’s anatomy to target and make
a ranged weapon Strike. If you hit and deal damage, the target
takes one of the following effects, based on the body part you
targeted. The GM should use the stated effects as a guideline
when attacking creatures with stranger anatomy—for instance,
applying the “arms” effect to a creature’s tentacles if those are
what the creature uses to attack.
•	 Arms The target is enfeebled 2 until the end of your next
turn. On a critical hit, it’s also enfeebled 1 for 1 minute.
•	 Head The target is stupefied 2 until the end of your next
turn. On a critical hit, it’s also stupefied 1 for 1 minute.
•	 Legs The target takes a –10-foot status penalty to its
Speeds until the end of your next turn. On a critical hit, it
also takes a –5-foot penalty to its Speeds for 1 minute.
•	 Wings If the target is flying using its wings, it immediately
falls 20 feet, or 40 feet on a critical hit. The fall is gradual
enough that if the target hits the ground, it takes no
damage from the fall.
DEFLECTING SHOT [reaction]
FEAT 10
GUNSLINGER
Trigger An ally within the first range increment of your firearm
or crossbow is hit by an attack, and you can see the attacker.
Requirements You’re wielding a loaded firearm or crossbow.
You’re always ready to take a quick shot to deflect a weapon
or distract a foe enough to render them off target. The
ally gains a +2 circumstance bonus to their AC against the
triggering attack. You use this reaction after the result of the
attack roll is revealed, so you know whether the +2 will make
a sufficient difference.
PENETRATING FIRE [two-actions]
FEAT 10
GUNSLINGER
Requirements You’re wielding a loaded firearm or crossbow.
You blast a bullet through one foe and into another. Choose two
targets, one of which would give the other lesser cover against
your ranged attacks. Make a single ranged Strike with the
required weapon against both targets. This attack ignores any
lesser cover the nearer target provides the other. Roll damage
only once and apply it to each creature you hit. Penetrating Fire
counts as two attacks for your multiple attack penalty.
PRECIOUS MUNITIONS
FEAT 10
GUNSLINGER
Prerequisites Munitions Machinist
You mix flecks of precious materials you’ve gathered on
your journeys into your custom bullets to bring out those
properties in your temporary ammunition. You can use
advanced alchemy to create standard-grade adamantine, cold
iron, or silver ammunition, spending 1 batch of reagents per
piece of ammunition. At 15th level, you can create high‑grade
adamantine, cold iron, or silver ammunition.
REBOUNDING ASSAULT [two-actions]
FEAT 10
GUNSLINGER
Requirements You’re wielding a loaded firearm or loaded
crossbow in one hand and a bludgeoning or slashing melee
weapon in the other.
You hurl your melee weapon at an opponent, then fire a bullet
into the weapon’s hilt, making it deal additional damage and
bounce back to your grasp. Make a thrown ranged Strike with
the melee weapon, then a ranged Strike with your firearm.
Both Strikes use the same multiple attack penalty. If the melee
115
115
