increment of 30 feet and reload 1. On a critical hit, the
venom clings to the target and they take persistent poison
damage equal to 1d4 + the number of weapon damage dice.
A spider gun does not add critical specialization effects.
The gun can be activated to fire webbing that hampers
other creatures.
Activate [one-action] Interact (conjuration, magical); Frequency
once per round; Effect You fire a mass of webbing at
a square within 30 feet. That square becomes covered
in webbing for 1 minute. A square covered with the
webbing from a spider gun can be cleared by a single
attack or effect that deals at least 5 slashing damage or
1 fire damage. A square has AC 5, and it automatically
fails its saving throws. The first time each turn a creature
in the webbing begins to use a move action or enters
the webbing during a move action, it must attempt
an Athletics check or Reflex save against DC 20. On a
success, it moves normally through the webbing and
clears away the webbing from any squares it enters
this turn. On a failure, it treats squares of webbing as
difficult terrain this turn, and on a critical failure, it’s
immobilized for 1 round or until it Escapes (DC 20) or
destroys the webbing.
Type spider gun; Level 6; Price 250 gp
Type greater spider gun; Level 9; Price 1,400 gp
The gun’s webbing requires at least 15 slashing
damage or 5 fire damage to clear away and the
DC is 25.
Type major spider gun; Level 15; Price
6,500 gp
A major spider gun is a +2 greater striking
weapon. The gun’s webbing requires at least
25 slashing damage or 15 fire damage to
clear away and the DC is 34.
Craft Requirements The initial raw
materials for the spider gun must
include the fangs and spinneret of a giant
spider or other Large spider.
SPIKE LAUNCHER
ITEM 6
UNCOMMON
EVOCATION
MAGICAL
Price 250 gp
Usage held in 1 or 2 hands; Bulk 2
Built from the spiked tail of a manticore, a spike launcher
is designed to launch large, spear-like projectiles. A spike
launcher is a +1 striking weapon. It’s a distinct type of
martial firearm that deals 1d8 piercing damage. It has the
backstabber, fatal aim d12, and kickback traits with a range
increment of 120 feet and reload 2. It uses the critical
specialization of the bow weapon group, rather than the
firearm critical specialization.
Activate [three-actions] Interact (evocation, magical); Frequency
once per day; Requirements The spike launcher is loaded;
Effect The spike launcher fires a volley of smaller spikes
in a 10-foot burst centered anywhere within its range.
Make a Strike with the spike launcher against each
creature in the area. On a success, the spike causes the
creature to take a –5-foot status penalty to their Speed.
On a critical success, the creature becomes immobilized
instead. In either case, the creature, or an adjacent
creature, can use an Interact action to remove the spike
and end the penalty or immobilized condition.
Craft Requirements The initial raw materials must include the
tail of a manticore.
TENTACLE CANNON
ITEM 7+
UNCOMMON
EVOCATION
MAGICAL
Usage held in 2 hands; Bulk 2
A tentacle cannon is a +1 striking weapon, built using
components from squids, krakens, and sometimes even
stranger tentacled creatures like alghollthu. It’s a distinct
type of martial firearm that deals 1d8
piercing damage. It has the capacity 5,
concussive, and fatal d12 traits, a range
increment of 30 feet, and reload 2. The
weapon itself resembles a five-barreled
handheld cannon with each barrel made
from a hollowed out tentacle.
Activate [two-actions] Interact (magical, transmutation);
Effect You cause one of the tentacles forming
the weapon’s five barrels to stretch out and
attempt to pull and grab a creature within 15
feet. The tentacle attempts to Grapple with a +13
bonus. It can attempt to Grapple any creature,
regardless of size. On a success, the tentacle
pulls the creature up to 10 feet directly towards
you, until it’s in a square adjacent to you.
Activate [one-action] Interact; Requirements The tentacle cannon
has a creature grabbed; Effect You continue to keep the
tentacle cannon’s hold on one creature it has grabbed.
Attempt another check to Grapple the creature with a
+13 bonus.
Activate [two-actions] Interact; Frequency once per hour; Effect The
cannon fires a spray of ink in a 15-foot cone. Creatures in
the area must attempt a DC 23 Reflex save. On a failure,
the creature is covered in ink and becomes blinded for
1 round and dazzled for 1 minute or until it removes the
ink. On a critical failure, the creature becomes blinded
and dazzled; both conditions last for 1 minute or until it
removes the ink. The creature, or an adjacent creature,
can use an Interact action to remove the ink from its
eyes to remove the blinded and dazzled conditions.
Type tentacle cannon; Level 7; Price 360 gp
Type greater tentacle cannon; Level 13; Price 2,000 gp
A greater tentacle cannon is a +2 greater striking weapon.
It has a +20 bonus to Grapple, and its ink spray DC is 30.
Type major tentacle cannon; Level 17; Price 15,000 gp
A major tentacle cannon is a +3 greater striking weapon.
It has a +27 bonus to Grapple, and its ink spray DC is 37.
Craft Requirements The initial raw materials must include
the tentacles and ink glands of a creature with a tentacle
Strike and ink.
156
156
Tentacle Cannon
