Grafts
Any construct requires an animating energy that shapes
its powers and personality. While most Jistkan artifice
involved binding whole beings into artificial shells, it’s
equally viable to draw trace amounts of a host’s life essence
to power a prosthesis.
The earliest of these magical grafts were ponderous,
designed with technologies appropriate for towering golems
yet ill-suited for a living host’s comparably delicate joints
and mortal constitutions. With time came sophistication,
and by the Imperium’s zenith, prostheses were lightweight,
and sleek. Given the Age of Anguish’s many dangers,
such prostheses were commonplace, and the mechanical
advantages drove some to acquire artificial augmentations
to replace even fully functioning limbs. The aristocracy
marveled at prostheses so lifelike as to be indistinguishable
from flesh, artificial limbs made from precious metals with
interchangeable decorative elements, and arms infused
with magical spells the user could channel.
Records and inscriptions show a sudden decline in
prosthesis quality and a spike in pervasiveness as Jistka’s
wars with Osirion progressed, with rush jobs and
dwindling resources providing the bare minimum before
sending an augmented combatant back to the front lines
of the generations-long conflict. With incalculable golem
scrap salvaged from the battlefields, many prostheses
from the Imperium’s final centuries were recycled from
destroyed constructs. Not only were these limbs a poor
fit for their users, but also traces of the former animating
spirits sometimes infected the new hosts—a phenomenon
the desperate military tried to weaponize to limited effect.
Ultimately, a combination of unsafe practices and
the Osirian armies’ obliteration of Jistkan cities put
an end to the millennium-long prosthesis tradition,
burying it until its rediscovery and revival in 4327 ar.
Unearthed by Rahadoumi treasure-hunters, these first five
prostheses found their way to a pair of artificer studios
in Manaket, where able inventors deciphered and adapted
the technology. In the four centuries since, golem-based
prosthesis use in Rahadoum has become more widespread
and inexpensive, all the more so because grafting
replacement limbs bypasses the divine regeneration magic
so disdained there. This technology reached the wider
world’s attention in 4660 ar, when unsanctioned explorers
looted a few original prostheses in Napsune Mountain
ruins and published their findings in the Pathfinder
Chronicles as though they were their own inventions. The
article was quickly debunked and retracted, though it has
fueled concerns of industrial theft ever since.
Despite many improvements over Jistkan designs, the
article drove a ravenous demand for the millennia-old
originals, many of which still function properly. However,
just as recycled golem components instilled some of the
former golem’s old energy and personality into their new
hosts ages ago, these antique prostheses occasionally imbue
their new users with disjointed memories, quirks, or even
magical abilities. Several residents of Rahadoum began
worshipping long-forgotten Jistkan deities shortly after
installation, putting Rahadoum’s Pure Legion on edge.
Even so, prosthesis tourism remains a thriving yet
minor industry in Manaket, with disabled visitors
arriving from half a continent away to receive a new
limb or eye. Alternatives exist, yet few can compare to
the sleek and overall seamless Rahadoumi technology.
Magnimar’s Golemworks and Kaer Maga’s Ardoc family
both dabble in the technology, yet rarely offer the service
publicly. Absalom’s Clockwork Cathedral and Alkenstar’s
foundries have likewise created experimental clockwork
limbs, though these mechanical solutions require more
maintenance than golem limbs. And while Nex’s fleshforges
and Geb’s necrograft markets both provide functional
prostheses, few are willing to stomach these grisly options.
JISTKAN ADVENTURES
Millennia and malice have ground much of Jistka’s ruins
to dust, yet in places, its physical legacy survives and can
drive exciting adventures.
Evil Engineering: Bound to an incomplete iron golem
forgotten in an ancient workshop and recently recovered
for a museum, an ice devil has regained its free will and
now makes deals telepathically with anyone visiting the
Jistka exhibit. Several of its dupes have planned a heist
to steal their silent master’s golem body in anticipation
of greater crimes.
Forbidden Faiths: After millennia wandering the planes,
a powerful automaton returns to find Jistka demolished
and his homeland occupied by a godless regime. Learning
that several sacred Jistkan sites remain undiscovered, the
automaton assembles teams to infiltrate Rahadoum and
extract holy treasures for safekeeping, all while evading
the Pure Legion.
Old Debts: An extended family of shaitans served
Jistka in its wars, and the descendants have appeared
in Rahadoum, demanding that Jistka pay its old debts or
suffer punishment. The genies’ contract seems altered to
extort vast sums and interest, yet without a Jistkan copy
for comparison, Rahadoumi negotiators can’t convince
the shaitans to drop the complaint. Rahadoum has issued
a call for capable explorers to enter the ruins of Lost
Yemal in search of the tablet that preserves this ancient
debt’s original terms.
Sleeper Agent: Recycled Jistkan prostheses sometimes
impart ancient memories to their new hosts, and an
unearthed prosthesis still resonates with a long-dead
Jistkan magistrate’s hatred for Osirion. Now installed in
a new host, the limb has subtly taken control and begun
plotting the Ruby Prince’s assassination. Worse, dozens
of powerful elementals owed the magistrate favors, and
the arm’s host has begun calling these in to engineer a
new war between Osirion and Rahadoum.
216
216
