Introduction
Gears
Characters
Gears
Equipment
Guns
Characters
Guns
Equipment
The Rotating
Gear
Glossary
And Index
Guns &
GEARS
without its problems. By using a volcano’s natural heat
to power the forge and generate steam for the assembly
mechanisms, the engineers lost the degree of control over
the forging process necessary to ensure consistency. As a
result, some gun barrels from the Motaku Isle Iron Works
burst in combat, ruining the gun and often injuring
the crew. A few have exploded violently, although this
occurred in the heat of battle, so no one has yet been able
to attribute such an occurrence to faulty manufacturing.
As Motaku Isle Iron Works weapons become more
common on pirate vessels, however, the truth is likely to
come out unless Volmurk can improve his production
process while meeting the pirates’ insatiable demand for
black powder weaponry. It remains to be seen if Captain
Fairwind can weather the storm of opposition she’ll face
when the Free Captains learn it’s her company producing
the faulty cannons. In game terms, Motaku cannons and
weapons always have a chance to misfire, regardless of
attempts to upkeep them during daily preparations.
Uneven Distribution
While firearms from both Alkenstar and Motaku Isle
Iron Works are slowly finding their way to other parts
of the Inner Sea, the numbers and sources are far
from even. With the Free Captains constantly coming
into conflict with the navies of Cheliax, Vidrian, and
Rahadoum, many Motaku cannons and firearms have
been confiscated. Due to Volmurk’s sly habit of stamping
some of his knockoffs with marks and crests normally
used to identify the gunsmith who created a particular
weapon in Alkenstar, these appropriated weapons are
occasionally redistributed as gifts to naval officers by
well-meaning superiors who lack the familiarity with
firearms to distinguish between a Motaku knock-off and
an Alkenstar original.
As a Free Captain of significant skill and renown,
privateer Stella Fane (CN female human privateer) has
access to purchase firearms and cannons from Motaku
Isle Iron Works. She’s also a double-agent working for
the Pathfinder Society, using her ship and connections
to smuggle Pathfinder agents past pirate blockades and
even into Port Peril itself. Stella occasionally purchases
shipments of Motaku cannons and firearms to resell to
the Pathfinder Society and its agents.
Due to the Pathfinders recording and publishing
their adventures, recent stories have begun to
include cautionary tales of muskets and pistols
bursting mid-fight. More traditional smiths and
bowyers leap on these tales, repeating them to
their customers while suggesting a reliable mace or
crossbow as a safer weapon for an aspiring adventurer.
Though Motaku Isle Iron Works has greatly increased
the accessibility of firearms, the storied unreliability of
those same weapons has begun to breed a concerned
mistrust of black powder weapons in other parts of
the Inner Sea.
Naval Encounters In
The Shackles
There have been occasional engagements between Free
Captain vessels and those of the Land of the Linnorm
Kings, but nothing approaching a fleet battle. Raiding
ships from both sides occasionally range far enough afield
that they encounter each other. Once battle is joined,
these fights rarely end without the sinking of one side
or the other, and the Ulfen longships now often move to
ram Shackles pirate ships on sight rather than risk taking
cannon fire.
219
219
Stella Fane
