Introduction
Gears
Characters
Gears
Equipment
Guns
Characters
Guns
Equipment
The Rotating
Gear
Glossary
And Index
Guns &
GEARS
your body. It may have sunk its needles into you or locked
its spidery legs around your neck, torso, or upper arm.
Some entity or spirit lives in this collection of gears and
wires—whether or not other people hear its whispers is up
to you. The entity may be an ancient, terrible being that
has razed villages with its hosts, or it may be a brilliant,
starry-eyed child who barely understands you’re not part
of its own body.
You have studied and searched for information on these
rare, crab-like machines, leaving you an expert in the binding
of elemental spirits or mortal souls to mechanical objects.
Though you have several theories on what the symbiotic
entity might be, you have no definitive answers—this may
be why you’re adventuring in the first place, or perhaps
you’ve made a deal with someone to get it removed.
The entity might talk to you periodically, or it might
only speak when it wants you to do something in
particular or finds the two of you in danger. You and
the GM should decide on the entity’s motivations,
or if the motivations should be a secret known only
to the GM.
Choose two ability boosts. One must be
to Intelligence or Wisdom, and one is a
free ability boost.
You’re trained in the Arcana skill
and an additional skill in which
the clockwork entity is well-versed,
determined by the GM. Any time you
attempt a skill check for the entity’s
skill, the GM can offer you a +1
circumstance bonus to the check, as
though the entity were Aiding you.
If you accept but fail the check,
the entity clenches up and you are
stunned 1 (stunned 2 on a critical
failure).
SAVED BY CLOCKWORK
RARE
Through bloody combat, a terrible
accident, or purposeful sacrifice,
you’ve lost some piece of your
body that has been replaced
with a clockwork mechanism.
Whether your arm is now a
whirring series of pumps, steel
coils, and iron gears; your heart
a intricate crystal clock that requires winding every
day; or your lower leg a sculpted metal tube powered
by adamantine springs and steam, part of you needs
regular maintenance and repair. You might have
received instructions from the brilliant inventor
who saved you, or you might have woken up on a
battlefield with no memory of the procedure or
the individuals involved. Regardless, you possess
the knowledge to take care of yourself—even if it’s
how to wind a key in your own heart or reconstruct a
mechanical foot.
Choose two ability boosts. One must be to Strength or
Intelligence, and one is a free ability boost.
You’re trained in the Crafting skill. Every day you must
perform 10 minutes of maintenance and wind up your
clockwork parts, or you risk failure of the components, with
consequences depending on what you replaced (determined
by you and the GM). Your clockwork components allow you
to react to danger with alacrity. You gain a +2 circumstance
bonus to initiative rolls.
TECH-RELIANT
RARE
Some event, be it an accident, attack, or disaster,
has left you horribly scarred by magic. Your body
no longer tolerates magical healing, and you can’t
use magic, forcing you to rely on gadgets and
ingenuity where others trust in spells and magical
items. You might have been well-versed in
magic before, or barely familiar with its
use. This event may have injured your
body in visible ways, but no matter
the extent of your injuries, your
body no longer interacts with
healing magic in any capacity.
Choose two ability boosts.
One must be to Constitution
or Intelligence, and one is a free
ability boost.
You’re trained in the Crafting skill
and the Medicine skill. You gain the
Battle Medicine skill feat, and a +1
circumstance bonus to saving throws
against
spells.
Healing
spells,
healing magic items, and magical
effects with the healing trait have
no effect on you.
WISHED ALIVE
RARE
Once you were a simple
construct or inanimate doll, but
due to a deeply felt wish, either
yours or another’s, you came
to life, and so you’re now a living,
breathing creature.
Choose two ability boosts. One
must be to Constitution or Charisma,
and one is a free ability boost.
You’re trained in the Diplomacy skill. Once
per day, you can fervently wish for something
you could work towards achieving as a single action
which has the concentrate trait. If you do, you gain
a +2 circumstance bonus on the first skill check you
attempt before the end of your turn to fulfill that wish.
47
47
Saved by Clockwork
