Introduction
Gears
Characters
Gears
Equipment
Guns
Characters
Guns
Equipment
The Rotating
Gear
Glossary
And Index
Guns &
GEARS
HELEPOLIS
VEHICLE 16
RARE
GARGANTUAN
Price 30,000 gp
Space 65 feet long, 65 feet wide, 130 feet high
Crew 1 pilot, 200 turners, 3,000 pushers; Passengers 306
Piloting Check Diplomacy (DC 37), Intimidation (DC 37), or
Warfare Lore (DC 35)
AC 34; Fort +28
Hardness 20, HP 240 (BT 120); Immunities object immunities
Speed 10 feet (pushed, turned)
Collision 8d10 (DC 32)
Sluggish This vehicle must move twice its length for each
90-degree turn it makes.
Tiered A helepolis has six levels. The crew operate at
the bottom tier, turning a giant capstan. There’s room
remaining on that tier for up to six passengers (enough
for a full heavy ballista siege crew; see Weaponry). Each
of the remaining five levels carries up to 60 passengers.
The tiers are specifically meant to be protective and give
those within the helepolis greater cover (or standard
cover if the helepolis is broken). A massive ladder runs
diagonally through the center of the helepolis, from the
front of the top tier to the rear of the bottom tier. The
ladder is wide enough for two crew or passengers to
climb simultaneously.
Weaponry The siege tower is loaded to the brim with siege
weapons—typically bristling with heavy ballistas on its
first and second tiers and ballistas on its third, fourth,
and fifth. The Price of these weapons is included in that
of the helepolis. When building a helepolis, you can
choose to replace any of these with other siege weapons
with a lower Price. If you want a more expensive siege
weapon, you must Craft it separately. Because of the
helepolis’s structure, any siege weapon in it must launch
its payload straight ahead. For instance, a ballista or
springald could function in a helepolis, but not a catapult
or trebuchet. Passengers of the helepolis can crew these
siege weapons.
SIEGE TOWER
VEHICLE 4
UNCOMMON
GARGANTUAN
Price 300 gp
Space 20 feet long, 20 feet wide, 40 feet high
Crew 1 pilot, 9 pushers; Passengers 40
Piloting Check Diplomacy (DC 21), Intimidation (DC 21), or
Warfare Lore (DC 19)
AC 16; Fort +11
Hardness 10, HP 40 (BT 20); Immunities object
immunities
Speed 10 feet (pushed by the pushers in the crew)
Collision 3d10 (DC 18)
Sluggish This vehicle must move twice its length for
each 90-degree turn it makes.
Tiered A siege tower has five levels. The bottom level
houses the crew, and each higher level carries
up to 10 passengers. The tiers are specifically
meant to be protective and give those within the siege
tower greater cover (or standard cover if the siege tower
is broken). Each tier is connected to the one above it by a
7-foot ladder.
The siege tower has a corvus at its highest tier: a
vertical bridge that can be lowered to allow creatures
to cross gaps. Lowering the corvus takes a total of
3 Interact actions. Moving the siege tower while the
corvus is lowered is highly dangerous, especially for
anyone on the corvus. When it’s open, creatures in the
top tier don’t have cover from the side with the corvus,
and creatures on the lowered corvus don’t have cover
except from below.
DISABLING SIEGE WEAPONS
Disable a Device can be used to deactivate most siege
weapons that have complex moving parts. This typically
doesn’t require thieves’ tools, takes one success, and uses
the standard DC for the item level of the siege weapon.
77
77
Helepolis
