Introduction
Gears
Characters
Gears
Equipment
Guns
Characters
Guns
Equipment
The Rotating
Gear
Glossary
And Index
Guns &
GEARS
Though Golarion has no shortage of fantastical cities and
locales, few are as unique as the Grand Duchy of Alkenstar
by pure necessity. Cradled in the blasted heart of the Mana
Wastes, the source of nearly all firearms in the Inner Sea
might seem to be no more than a large, walled town to
the casual observer. However, the unreliability of magic,
upon which most other societies depend, has bred a level
of innovation that would not be possible elsewhere. In
this young, isolated nation, science and technology are
a necessity, with human innovation joining dwarven
engineering to achieve all sorts of marvelous technological
advancements at breakneck speed. Founded by the refugee
Ancil Alkenstar after he fled arrest in Nex, the nation
has risen to prosperity by serving as a trade link between
the crafters of Dongun Hold and the wider world. With
little arable land to grow its own crops, Alkenstar relies
on specialized exports of iced wine to Geb, and weapons
and armaments forged by skilled artisans to the rest of the
Inner Sea to keep its citizens fed.
The duchy never forgets the debt it owes to the
dwarven fortress of Dongun Hold for the advances that
were shared between peoples, such as the development of
black powder and firearms, and the repeated assistance
the Sky Citadel continues to provide. Still, even the
smiths of Dongun Hold find themselves surprised and
impressed by some of the advancements the humans have
made in the realm of firearm development. Acting as
home to some of the most skilled crafters both humanity
and dwarvenkind have to offer, Alkenstar has become a
veritable pilgrimage destination for inventors, alchemists,
architects, and anyone else fascinated by innovation.
Situated near the heart of the Mana Wastes between
Nex and Geb, the City of Smog can’t easily be reached
from any direction using conventional means of travel.
Most travelers make their way south through Katapesh
and Nex, though the unregulated guides that serve as
escorts on this journey are often as likely to rob their
charges and leave them for dead as they are to see them to
the destination safely. One of the safer options is to travel
with one of the merchant caravans that carry goods
back and forth along the route. Engineers who journey
to Smog seeking fortune rarely return to their countries
of origin, as the gravity and excitement of Alkenstar’s
industries has a way of holding their attention.
ALKENSTAR, THE CITY OF SMOG
195
195
