The Politics of Powder
While those with knowledge of the recent stirrings in
Geb and Nex have thus far managed to avoid keeping the
information from spreading into wild rumormongering,
Alkenstar is not so remote or isolated that word of
the outside world fails to breach its walls. The people
of Alkenstar know that they exist wedged between
the two magical superpowers of Geb and Nex. Most
shieldmarshals carry at least one magical silver bullet in
their kit when traveling beyond the city’s walls just in case
they should encounter a vampire scout or other undead
creature sneaking across the border of the Mana Wastes.
As military activity in the neighboring kingdoms
continues to grow, the Grand Duchess has formed an
unlikely but politically savvy alliance with the nation
of Vidrian. Vidrian has its own struggles with pirates
and Chelaxian privateers, but possesses a powerful
navy, something the landlocked city-state of Alkenstar
lacks entirely. The two nations have formed an accord
wherein Alkenstar provides a small number of cannons
and firearms to Vidrian in exchange for Vidrian
providing naval escorts for valuable shipments and
keeping pressure on Nex and Geb politically to keep
their fighting to themselves. Though the two nations are
on opposite sides of the continent and separated by a
dangerous mountain range, magical communications
and shared interests have allowed them both to benefit
from this relationship.
Gunners of Fortune and
Infamy
As the font of most firearms in the Inner Sea, it is
unsurprising that Alkenstar is also the origin of the area’s
storied gunslingers. While the High Parliament sets rules
to contain the acquisition of firearms, it sets no true rules
on who can carry them or leave the city with one in their
possession. Theft of the weapons, or simply keeping a
service weapon after leaving the shieldmarshals, are a
shade more common than actually purchasing one. The
knowledge of the formula for gunpowder is much more
difficult to obtain, however, as it isn’t used outside the
secure confines of the Gunworks. The shieldmarshals
know that without this critical process a pistol is nothing
more than a short club before long. As a result, most
gunpowder must be purchased inside Alkenstar or stolen,
which keeps gunslingers close to the City of Smog.
The most infamous and active of these powder thieves
are a trio of vagabonds called the Lover’s Triangle.
Kastus (CN male human ruffian), is the apparent
leader, a former stockboy in the Gunworks who decided
robbing boats along the Ustradi River was an easier
and more entertaining career. Tarluc (NE male half-elf
charlatan) reportedly serves as the Triangle’s scout
and con artist, luring guards and travelers with stories
of attacking mutants or other lies. Elysse (N female
half-orc gunslinger) acts as the muscle for the group,
and has warrants for over a dozen murders to her
name. The band came together when Kastus
broke Tarluc and Elysse free during a prisoner
transfer years ago, and since then they have
continued to plague the merchant routes in
and out of Alkenstar. Their patterns of robbery
and preferred targets are erratic, fluctuating from
hijacking munitions transports bound for Vidrian to
stealing food shipments inbound from Geb.
Further outside the walls of Alkenstar, travelers have
reported a seemingly impossible sight: a mass of goblins,
each carrying a makeshift musket. At first locals suspected
they were simply sticks mistaken for firearms at a distance,
until the goblin clan opened fire on a barge, their giddy
laughter barely audible over the shots. A shieldmarshal
patrol was sent to investigate and came back with news
that the goblins called themselves the Powder-Teeth Clan.
The leader of the clan was able to provide a bill of sale for
the firearms, dated several years ago. The human listed
on the bill was a smuggler from Alkenstar, and when the
shieldmarshals pressed the goblins for more information
they revealed that she sold the weapons to the clan for
a collection of gems. Later, the goblins admitted, she
returned to steal her goods back, underestimating the
encampment’s security and the speed with which the
198
198
