Introduction
Gears
Gears
Equipment
Gunslingers
and
Shootists
Guns and
Black
Powder
Equipment
Guns and
Gears on
Golarion
Glossary
and Index
Guns &
GEARS
with you so long as you’re using it. You can choose
what appearance this has. For example, when you
transform with wild shape, you can choose to have full
mobility of your limbs or have the chair transform to
become a wheelchair appropriate for that shape, such as
wheelchair harnesses for dogs.
Movement: While using a chair, you Stride at your
normal Speed (the Speed listed for your ancestry, with any
additional bonuses, penalties, and adjustments applied).
You propel a wheelchair by using the handrims. You can
propel the wheelchair even while holding something in
your hands, but not if you’ve restrained or otherwise
unable to move your hands freely. You are still affected
by difficult terrain and other terrain features, and any
effect that would immobilize you, give a penalty to your
Speeds, and so on based on entangling or hindering with
your legs applies to the wheelchair as well. You can use
all of your actions while in a wheelchair. The impulse
control add-on allows you to direct a wheelchair with
your fingers or nerve impulses instead.
Quick-Righting: If the chair is tipped or you are
knocked prone while in the chair, you can right yourself
using the Stand action, though in this case you are righting
the wheelchair instead. An ally can use an Interact action
to help right you, allowing you to Stand as a free action
triggered by their Interact action.
WHEELCHAIR TYPES
The following are some of the wheelchair types seen
throughout Golarion.
BASIC CHAIR
ITEM 0
Price 5 sp
Bulk 2
This common wheelchair is ideal for everyday use, but isn’t
designed for adventuring. Basic chairs are most common
among non-adventurers.
TRAVELER’S CHAIR
ITEM 1
Price 5 gp
Bulk 3
This wheelchair is tailored for adventures and travels. The
design is sleek and fashionable to provide excellent comfort
and support. A traveler’s chair has small mechanisms, either
made from interlocking wood pieces, clockwork, or other
devices, that allow the chair to traverse up or down stairs
without any additional difficulty (moving up stairs is still
difficult terrain, just like for other characters), and move
through other such environments that adventurers and
travelers encounter without any additional difficulty, such as
ladders and uneven ground.
Magical Wheelchairs
The following wheelchairs use technology and magic for
incredible effects, in addition to the basic benefits granted
from the base wheelchair (typically a traveler’s chair).
FROG CHAIR
ITEM 8
UNCOMMON
CLOCKWORK
MAGICAL
Price 475 gp
Bulk 3
This clockwork traveler’s chair is shaped like a wheeled frog,
with springs attached to the bottom and an extensible tongue
on the front.
Activate [one-action] Interact; Frequency once per hour; Effect You
activate the wheelchair’s springs to make hopping leaps.
For 1 minute, whenever you Leap with the wheelchair, you
can jump 30 feet in any direction without touching the
ground. You must land on a space of solid ground within
30 feet of you, or else you fall after using your next action.
Activate [one-action] Interact; Frequency once per minute; Effect You
activate the wheelchair’s tongue to grab a nearby object
and bring it to you. Interact to pick up an unattended object
within 15 feet and bring it to your empty hand. If you don’t
have a hand to take the object, it falls in your space instead.
SPIDER CHAIR
ITEM 12
UNCOMMON
CLOCKWORK
MAGICAL
Price 1,800 gp
Bulk 3
This clockwork traveler’s chair has spinnerets and spider legs
that allow it to roll up walls, fire web lines to pull you to a
location, and obstruct foes with webs. While using the chair,
you gain a climb Speed equal to your Speed.
Activate [one-action] Interact; Frequency once per minute; Effect The
chair shoots a web line at a solid wall, floor, or ceiling up to
60 feet away and then pulls itself and you to that location.
Activate [three-actions] Interact; Frequency once per hour; Effect You
cause the chair to launch an enormous web to hinder your
foes, with the effects of a 4th-level web spell.
STORM CHAIR
ITEM 14
RARE
ELECTRICITY
MAGICAL
Price 4,400 gp
Bulk 3
This traveler’s chair uses magic and Stasian technology,
storing up power in its Stasian coils to arc lightning through
your foes and grant brief spurts of flight.
Activate [two-actions] Interact (electricity, evocation, magical);
Frequency once per hour; Effect You create a ball of
electricity around the chair, surrounding it in a damaging
aura of electricity and using electromagnetism to briefly
levitate. For 1 minute, you gain a fly Speed equal to your
Speed and adjacent creatures that hit you with a melee
attack, as well as creatures that touch or hit you with an
unarmed attack, take 2d6 electricity damage each time. As
normal, this applies to creatures who choose to touch you,
not when you touch or attack another creature.
Activate [two-actions] Interact (electricity, evocation, magical);
Frequency once per day; Effect You release the majority
of the stored up energy from your storm chair, devastating
foes in a chain of electricity. This has the effects of chain
lightning with a DC of 31.
9191
