REPEATING CROSSBOW
ITEM 0
UNCOMMON
This crossbow has an internal chamber that can be loaded
with up to five bolts. An automated catch mechanism at the
top of the flight groove, just in front of the latch, locks the
bowstring and launches bolts with the pull of a trigger.
REPEATING HAND CROSSBOW
ITEM 0
UNCOMMON
This handheld crossbow features an ingeniously designed
catch mechanism at the top of the flight groove, just in
front of the latch, which automatically loads a bolt from a
magazine and resets the string each time the weapon is
fired. A typical repeating hand crossbow magazine holds
five bolts.
REPEATING HEAVY CROSSBOW
ITEM 0
UNCOMMON
This large crossbow has an internal chamber that
can be loaded with up to five bolts. While it uses
the same automated catch mechanism as other
repeating crossbows, a repeating heavy crossbow’s
design has significant trade-offs. It has increased
range and damage and is easier to learn how to use, but
requires a small amount of effort to reload.
UMBRELLA INJECTOR
ITEM 0
UNCOMMON
This umbrella’s ferrule is a hollow-tipped blade three
to four inches in length and often overlooked as decorative.
A receptacle inside the umbrella’s shaft can be loaded with
a single dose of injury poison and injected into a damaged
target with the pull of a sliding trigger. Reinforced ribs
enable you to parry and deflect blows with the umbrella’s
tear-resistant canopy.
Combat Gear
The following pieces of combat gear aren’t weapons
themselves, though several
enable you to deploy other
weapons in innovative ways.
BLADE LAUNCHER
ITEM 1
UNCOMMON
Price 18 gp
Usage held in 2 hands; Bulk 1
A blade launcher has a bow-like assembly mounted on a
handled frame. The frame can be configured to fire either
a dagger, dart, shuriken, or starknife. Configuring a blade
launcher requires three Interact actions. Once properly
configured, loading an appropriate thrown weapon into a
blade launcher requires a single Interact action. A blade
launcher can’t fire weapons for which it’s not currently
configured. A weapon fired with a blade launcher loses the
agile, monk, thrown, and versatile traits, if it has them, and
has a range increment of 40 feet. Due to losing the thrown
weapon trait, returning and most other effects that allow a
weapon to return don’t function; even if a launched weapon
did return, you’d still need to load it into the blade launcher
with an Interact action to fire the blade launcher again.
BOMB LAUNCHER
ITEM 1
UNCOMMON
Price 20 gp
Usage held in 2 hands; Bulk 1
This long, hollow tube is held in two hands and braced over
the shoulder. Inside, it contains a small metal basket sized
to hold alchemical bombs. A chute in the top delivers an
alchemical bomb into the internal basket, while a lever
on the underside pulls the basket back and locks it
in place. Loading an alchemical bomb into a bomb
launcher requires a single Interact action. With a pull
of a trigger, the basket speeds forward, allowing you
to Strike with the loaded alchemical bomb over long
distances. Bombs fired with a bomb launcher have
a range increment of 60 feet.
DEPLOYABLE COVER
ITEM 1+
UNCOMMON
Usage held in 2 hands; Bulk 1
This thick mat of canvas, foliage, and wood is mounted on a
tripod of flexible metal struts, folded into a baton-
like shape, and clamped shut. You can rapidly
deploy it on the ground with an Interact action to
create cover. Deployable cover is large enough to Take Cover
behind, allowing you (and others) to gain standard cover when
you use the Take Cover action. Before it can be used again,
deployable cover must be carefully folded and clamped shut,
which takes 1 minute.
Type deployable cover; Level 1; Price 15 gp
Type ballistic cover; Level 2; Price 35 gp
Specially crafted to protect against bullet fire, a ballistic cover
also works against other physical projectiles, such
as arrows, bolts, and thrown weapons. While
a creature has cover from Taking Cover
behind a ballistic cover, it gains resistance 2
to piercing damage from ranged weapons
and ranged unarmed attacks.
GRAPPLING GUN
ITEM 0+
UNCOMMON
Usage held in 2 hands; Bulk 1
This wooden, pistol-like device features a large reel coiled with
100 feet of thin metal cord and can fire a grappling hook up
to 100 feet. To reload the grappling gun, you must manually
recoil the cord by turning the reel’s crank, and then lock in
the grappling hook. Reloading a grappling gun takes 1 minute.
Type grappling gun; Level 0; Price 3 gp
Type clockwork grappling gun; Level 1; Price 15 gp
Clockwork controls the reel on this grappling gun, reeling the
grappling hook back in when you pull a lever. Reloading a
clockwork grappling gun takes three Interact actions.
64
64
Umbrella Injector
Grappling Gun
