Introduction
Gears
Characters
Gears
Equipment
Guns
Characters
Guns
Equipment
The Rotating
Gear
Glossary
And Index
Guns &
GEARS
minds. You can name a creature you believe to be enchanted
by your target or allow the shot to choose an enchanted
creature randomly. On a hit, the shot attempts to counteract the
enchantment the target is using to manipulate that creature’s
mind. The counteract level is 9, and the counteract modifier is
+27. If you fail (but don’t critically fail) the counteract check
against a demon or fey, you get a success instead. If you hit
a demon or fey with no active enchantment effects on other
creatures, the target is stupefied 1 for 1 minute instead.
Type awakened silver shot; Level 17; Price 2,300 gp
The shot is a high-grade silver bullet. The awakened silver
gleams with altered celestial moonlight designed to weaken
and expose devils and werecreatures. On a hit, it attempts
to counteract any polymorph effect on the target. The
counteract level is 9, and the counteract
modifier is +27. If you fail (but don’t
critically fail) the counteract
check against a devil or a
werecreature, you get a success
instead. If you counteracted the
Change Shape ability, the creature
can’t use that ability again
for 1 round, or 1 minute on
a critical success. If you
hit a devil or werecreature
not under a polymorph effect, the
target is enfeebled 1 for 1 minute instead.
BLACK POWDER
ITEM 0+
UNCOMMON
ALCHEMICAL
CONSUMABLE
Ammunition round
Activate [one-action] Interact
Black powder is a volatile and explosive alchemical substance
commonly used in the production of firearm munitions.
Black powder becomes inert and useless when wet
and must be kept in a sealed, water-tight
container.
Type dose or round; Level 0;
Price 1 cp
The smallest unit of black
powder that still has a simple use,
a dose can be a simple package paper parcel
around black powder or it can be packaged with
a metal bullet or pellet to be used as ammunition. When ignited
with a fuse or exposed to direct flame, a dose of black powder
explodes. This isn’t powerful enough to deal damage but makes
a loud sound and could trigger further explosions. A fuse for a
dose can be created with a few twists of paper and causes the
dose to explode the round after it’s lit.
Type horn; Level 2; Price 5 gp
A horn contains 500 doses worth of black powder. A horn
can be detonated by leaving a small trail of black powder and
then lighting it. Each 5-foot square requires one dose of black
powder to create a trail through. As long as the horn is mostly
full (at least 400 doses remaining) it can be detonated to deal
1d6 fire damage in a 5-foot burst (DC 16 basic Reflex save). It
takes 1 round per 15 feet of powder trail laid down for a horn
to detonate after the trail is lit. If multiple horns detonate
simultaneously, it can increase the area of the explosion, but
the damage in overlapping areas doesn’t increase.
Type keg; Level 6; Price 50 gp
A keg contains 5,000 doses of black powder and can be
detonated in the same way as a horn. As long as the keg is
mostly full (at least 4,000 doses remaining) this deals 3d6 fire
damage in a 20-foot burst (DC 20 basic Reflex save). Detonating
multiple kegs can increase the area, but not the damage, of this
effect; detonating a keg and any horns at the same time in an
overlapping area also doesn’t increase the damage.
DREAMING ROUND
ITEM 14
UNCOMMON CONSUMABLE ENCHANTMENT INCAPACITATION MAGICAL MENTAL SLEEP
Price 900 gp
Ammunition round
Activate [one-action] command
The night sky seems contained in this glass projectile.
When an activated dreaming round damages a
creature, it induces drowsiness. The creature must
attempt a DC 30 Fortitude save.
Critical Success The creature is unaffected
and becomes temporarily immune for 1
minute.
Success The creature becomes slowed 1
and fatigued for 1 round.
Failure The creature becomes fatigued and
slowed 1, and must attempt another Fortitude
save at the end of each of its turns. If it fails, its
slowed condition increases by 1. A successful save reduces
the slowed condition by 1. If the slowed
condition is removed or reduced to 0,
the effect and the fatigued condition
end. If the target’s actions are reduced
to 0 by this effect, it immediately falls
into a deep sleep and is unconscious,
during which it no longer attempts a
save at the end of its turn. It wakes up
automatically after 1 hour or if it takes
damage, but not due to non-painful stimuli
(such as noise or being nudged). When it
wakes up, its slowed condition decreases by
1, though it must once again save at the end of each of its
turns and might risk falling asleep again.
Critical Failure As failure, except the target is initially slowed 2.
ERODING BULLET
ITEM 5
UNCOMMON
ACID
ALCHEMICAL
CONSUMABLE
Price 22 gp
Ammunition round
Activate [one-action] Interact
Eroding bullets cast a faint green glow, and smell like the sickly-
sweet organic gases that rise from corpses. Handling an eroding
bullet without gloves deals 1 point of acid damage and leaves
the putrid scent coated on your fingers. Upon Striking an enemy,
169
169
Awakened Metal Shot
Feather Token Bullet
