Introduction
Gears
Characters
Gears
Equipment
Guns
Characters
Guns
Equipment
The Rotating
Gear
Glossary
And Index
Guns &
GEARS
GUNSLINGER
While some fear projectile weapons, you savor the searing flash, wild kick,
and cloying smoke that accompanies a gunshot, or snap of the cable and
telltale thunk of your crossbow just before your bolt finds purchase. Ready
to draw a bead on an enemy at every turn, you rely on your reflexes, steady
hand, and knowledge of your weapons to riddle your foes with holes.
DURING COMBAT ENCOUNTERS...
You strike from range with your firearms, seeking to defeat your opponents
before they can pose a true threat. Depending on your choice of weapon, you
might prefer to strike your opponent from a hidden position before they ever
realize you’re there, dash through a frenzied melee with pistols blazing, or
glide effortlessly across the battlefield, waiting for the perfect moment to end
the conflict with a single, well-placed shot.
DURING SOCIAL ENCOUNTERS...
You have a keen eye and can see things coming from farther than most. You
might not be the life of the party, but your companions know to pay attention
when your subtle nod or concerned grunt indicates that something’s amiss.
WHILE EXPLORING...
You scout the group’s position for incoming threats and help search for secret
doors and hidden passages, keeping a weather eye out for unexpected threats.
IN DOWNTIME...
You might craft ammunition or keep your complex weapons clean and
maintained, and you might look for work that matches your unique talents,
such as working as a blacksmith, engineer, or part of the local watch. You
might wander from town to town, or stay put for a spell to enjoy the silence
that lingers between gunfights.
YOU MIGHT...
•	 Seek out areas of great conflict where your unique choice of weaponry can
help build your reputation.
•	 Explore new horizons, trusting your honed senses and deadly weapon to
keep you safe.
•	 Demonstrate extensive knowledge about various types of guns and
ammunition, along with curiosity about the latest in gun technology.
OTHERS PROBABLY...
•	 Assume that since you know how your gun works, you must also understand
how to resolve other mechanical challenges.
•	 Underestimate you at first glance, thinking you rely on your gun because
you lack any other skills.
•	 Respect your eternal vigilance, unyielding grit, and excellent aim.
RARITY
Uncommon
INITIAL PROFICIENCIES
At 1st level, you gain the listed
proficiency ranks in the following
statistics. You are untrained in
anything not listed unless you gain
a better proficiency rank in some
other way.
PERCEPTION
Expert in Perception
SAVING THROWS
Expert in Fortitude
Expert in Reflex
Trained in Will
SKILLS
Trained in one or more skills
determined by your gunslinger’s way
Trained in a number of additional skills
equal to 3 plus your Intelligence
modifier
ATTACKS
Expert in simple firearms and
crossbows
Expert in martial firearms and
crossbows
Trained in advanced firearms and
crossbows
Trained in simple weapons
Trained in martial weapons
Trained in unarmed attacks
DEFENSES
Trained in light armor
Trained in medium armor
Trained in unarmored defense
CLASS DC
Trained in gunslinger class DC
105
105
HIT POINTS
8 plus your Constitution modifier
You increase your maximum number
of HP by this number at 1st level and
every level thereafter.
KEY ABILITY
DEXTERITY
At 1st level, your class gives you an
ability boost to Dexterity.
