Spellshot
(Class Archetype)
Rarity Uncommon
Spellshots aren’t ordinary gunslingers. They come from
a tradition of ancient secrets and principles, which they
temper with modern innovation and perspective. Spellshots
combine magical power into the art of gunplay to create
a distinct and mystical way known only to spellshots,
enigmatic and unavailable to other gunslingers in the
world at large. The first to identify themselves as spellshots
tied their magical traditions to the history of the Star Code
and the Crowned Regents in Arcadia. Ancient, reclusive
crafters known as the Crowned Regents created star guns,
the legendary magical firearms that shot white-hot blasts
of energy. Wielders of star guns became bound together
by the Star Code—a set of cultural expectations that
defined how one should behave while using these powerful
weapons. You can find more information about star guns,
the Crowned Regents, and the Star Code on page 206.
Most spellshots continue to come from Arcadia, as
the stories describing the relevant skills and training to
become one have been passed down over the generations.
Many gunslingers who grow up in this region hear of these
tales early in their lives, and they develop the techniques
to channel magical energy through their firearms in
imitation of the Regents’ arcane methods. While Arcadia
is home to the vast majority of the world’s spellshots, the
techniques have slowly spread to other regions. However,
spellshots remain particularly rare in the Inner Sea
region due to the unique history of guns there and their
connection to the Grand Duchy of Alkenstar, which exists
in a magic-dead region of the Mana Wastes.
WAY OF THE SPELLSHOT (1ST)
You’ve learned the intricacies of magic and technology,
blending the two together with deadly results. You
combine a knowledge of arcane theories with a strong
connection to your chosen weapon that allows you to
manifest unique effects, though your knowledge doesn’t
extend as far as actual spellcasting. You can imbue
energy into your weapon and conjure bullets from thin
air. As you progress, you eventually learn to phase bullets
through walls or even to teleport yourself along the path
of your bullets. You must select Spellshot Dedication as
your 2nd-level class feat.
Prerequisites: You must be a gunslinger.
Spellshot Adjustments: Instead of choosing a way
from the options listed in the gunslinger class, you have
the way of the spellshot. It has the following way skill,
slinger’s reload, and deeds. You gain these abilities at the
same levels as normal for the class. You use Intelligence
for your class DC.
Way Skill Arcana
Slinger’s Reload Thoughtful Reload
Deeds Initial Energy Shot; Advanced Recall Ammunition;
Greater Dispelling Bullet
Slinger’s Reload
THOUGHTFUL RELOAD [one-action]
GUNSLINGER
As you sink deep into a state of analytical calm and focus on
the foe before you, your hands reload a bullet instinctively.
Attempt a Recall Knowledge check against an opponent you
can see and then Interact to reload.
Initial Deed
ENERGY SHOT [free-action]
EVOCATION
MAGICAL
SPELLSHOT
Trigger You roll initiative.
You unleash a small surge of magical energy into your
weapon, shrouding the bullet with potential energy and
granting it the ability to deal energy damage to your foes to
exploit their weaknesses. You can Interact to draw a ranged
weapon. On your first three Strikes of this encounter with a
firearm or crossbow, you deal an additional 1 acid, cold, fire
or electricity damage. You choose which damage type to deal
as part of making each Strike.
Advanced Deed
9th
RECALL AMMUNITION [reaction]
CONJURATION
MAGICAL
SPELLSHOT
TELEPORTATION
Trigger You miss with a firearm or crossbow Strike while using
an ordinary level-0 bolt or bullet
You amplify the connection between bullet and firearm, calling
your missed shot back into your gun. The ammunition you just
fired is reloaded back into your gun and immediately ready to
fire again.
Greater Deed
15th
DISPELLING BULLET [two-actions]
ABJURATION
MAGICAL
SPELLSHOT
You imprint a bullet with a field of abjuration built upon your
magical signature, disrupting the magic of whatever it hits.
Make a firearm or crossbow Strike against a foe you can see.
If you hit, you attempt to counteract a spell effect active
on the target (your choice, or the highest-level effect if you
don’t choose). Your counteract level is equal to half your level
(rounded up), and your counteract check modifier is equal to
your class DC – 10.
Spellshot Archetype Feats
SPELLSHOT DEDICATION
FEAT 2
ARCHETYPE
CLASS
DEDICATION
Prerequisites way of the spellshot
You’ve steeped yourself in magic and gunplay to the extent
that you can conjure bullets from thin air, using a rudimentary
knowledge of arcane theory to create a temporary piece of
ammunition. You gain the Conjure Bullet action.
140
140
