The following rules cover the use of firearms and
includes the firearms and ammunition types available.
All firearms are subject to misfires if they’re not properly
maintained, as described in the sidebar.
The clan pistol and dwarven scattergun have the dwarf
trait, the mithral tree has the elf trait, and the flingflenser
has the goblin trait. However, feats such as Dwarven
Weapon Familiarity, which normally grants access to all
uncommon weapons with the dwarf trait, don’t grant
access to firearms with the listed traits unless the character
separately has access to firearms. For instance, dwarves
who’ve never seen a firearm and then train in traditional
dwarven weapons don’t have access to clan pistols and
dwarven scatterguns. You can find more information on
this and other firearm access details on page 148.
AMMUNITION
Firearms require ammunition consisting of a projectile
and black powder. A round of ammo can vary in its
composition but is typically either a prepackaged paper
cartridge, including wadding, bullet, and black powder,
or loose shot packed in manually. Some weapons,
like hand cannons and blunderbusses, can fire other
materials, but their ammunition has the same Price due
to the cost of the black powder. Because making rounds
of firearm ammunition requires creating black powder,
you need the Alchemical Crafting skill feat to make
them. Firearm rounds are a valid option for magical
ammunition, just like arrows or bolts. Crafting magical
firearm ammunition requires you to be able to craft
both alchemical and magical items.
WEAPON TRAITS
These weapons include the following traits, in addition
to any described in the Core Rulebook.
Capacity: Weapons that have the capacity trait
typically have multiple barrels or chambers capable of
containing a round of ammunition. Capacity is always
accompanied by a number indicating the number of
barrels or chambers. After a capacity weapon is fired,
you can select the next loaded barrel or chamber as an
Interact action that doesn’t require a free hand. Each
barrel or chamber can be reloaded after it’s fired as a
separate Interact action.
CLASSIC FIREARMS
Concealable: This weapon is designed to be
inconspicuous or easily concealed. You gain a +2
circumstance bonus to Stealth checks and DCs to hide
or conceal a weapon with this trait.
Concussive: These weapons smash as much as
puncture. When determining a creature’s resistance or
immunity to damage from this weapon, use the weaker
of the target’s resistance or immunity to piercing or
bludgeoning. For instance, if the creature were immune
to piercing and had no resistance or immunity to
bludgeoning damage, it would take full damage from
a concussive weapon. Resistance or immunity to all
physical damage, or all damage, applies as normal.
Double Barrel: This weapon has two barrels that are
each loaded separately. You can fire both barrels of a
double barrel weapon in a single Strike to increase the
size of the weapon damage die by one step. If the weapon
has the fatal trait, this increases the size of the fatal die by
one step as well.
Fatal Aim: It’s possible to hold the stock of this weapon
under one arm so you can fire it with a single hand as
long as the other hand isn’t holding a weapon, shield, or
anything else you would need to move and position, to
ensure the weapon doesn’t slip out from under your arm.
However, if you use both hands, the weapon can make
fatal attacks. When you wield the weapon in two hands,
it gains the fatal trait with the listed damage die. Holding
the weapon underarm stably enough to fire is significantly
more complicated than just releasing one hand from the
weapon, so to switch between the two grips, you must
do so with an Interact action rather than Releasing or as
part of reloading.
Kickback: A kickback weapon is extra powerful and
difficult to use. A kickback weapon deals 1 additional
damage with all attacks. Firing a kickback weapon gives a
–2 circumstance penalty to the attack roll, but characters
with 14 or more Strength ignore the penalty. Attaching a
kickback weapon to stabilizers can lower or negate this
penalty (page 182).
Modular: The weapon has multiple configurations
that you can switch between using an Interact action.
Typically, switching between configurations of a modular
weapon allows it to deal different types of damage (listed
in the trait, such as “modular B, P, or S”), though it’s
TABLE 4—1: MELEE WEAPONS
Simple Weapons	 Price
Damage	 Bulk
Hands
Group
Weapon Traits
Forked bipod
3 sp
1d4 P
L
1
Spear
Agile, deadly d6, finesse
Knuckle duster
3 sp
1d4 B
L
1
Brawling	 Agile, free-hand, monk
Martial Weapons	 Price
Damage	 Bulk
Hands
Group
Weapon Traits
Bayonet
2 sp
1d4 P
L
1 or 2*
Knife
Agile, attached to crossbow or firearm, finesse
Reinforced stock	 2 sp
1d4 B
L
1 or 2*
Club
Attached to crossbow or firearm, finesse, two-hand d6
*An attached bayonet or reinforced stock requires the same number of hands as the weapon it’s attached to. A detached
bayonet requires one hand.
150
150
