Introduction
Gears
Characters
Gears
Equipment
Guns
Characters
Guns
Equipment
The Rotating
Gear
Glossary
And Index
Guns &
GEARS
CHAPTER MAP
The following new options appear in this chapter.
Gunslinger (class)
Page 105
Common Backgrounds
Page 122
Uncommon Backgrounds
Page 124
Rare Backgrounds
Page 125
Gunslinger (multiclass archetype)
Page 127
Artillerist (archetype)
Page 128
Beast Gunner (archetype)
Page 130
Bullet Dancer (archetype)
Page 132
Demolitionist (archetype)
Page 133
Fireworks Technician (archetype)
Page 134
Pistol Phenom (archetype)
Page 136
Sniping Duo (archetype)
Page 138
Spellshot (archetype)
Page 140
Unexpected Sharpshooter (archetype)
Page 142
GUNSLINGER
PAGE 105
While most people can fire a gun or
crossbow, a gunslinger knows such
weapons better than anyone. From
reloading to customization, a gunslinger
demands more from their weapons,
though demanding too much can result in
a misfire. Gunslingers remain unrivaled in their
skill and accuracy with weapons that strike hard from afar.
NHALMIKA IRONSIGHT
Born and raised in Dongun Hold,
Nhalmika served as a skilled
vanguard for many years. Upon
retiring after the death of her spouse,
Nhalmika took the scattergun that had
served her so well during her service
and started a new chapter as an adventurer,
cheered on by her children.
Several regions on Golarion have developed their own
versions of firearms, their cultural and intellectual
traditions each shaping how these weapons are
beginning to spread throughout the globe. While
multiple cultures having their own techniques and
signature styles, guns are still incredibly scarce
worldwide. Despite their rarity, rifles and pistols
loom large in tales told throughout the Inner Sea,
thanks to the chronicles of the Pathfinder Society and
stories spread by other adventurers who have come
into contact with guns in battle or traveled through a
region where they are used. The following regions have
access to firearms.
Perhaps the most famous home for black powder
firearms on Golarion is the grand duchy of Alkenstar
(page 195). Located on the continent of Garund, this
primarily human duchy, along with their neighbors, the
dwarven sky citadel of Dongun Hold (page 190) produce
black powder and high-quality firearms, continually
perfecting their craft and supplementing the art of
gunsmithing with ancillary technologies like scopes for
long-distance sniping. For many years, Alkenstar and
Dongun Hold were the only reliable sources of firearms
found in the Inner Sea, but the ingenuity of the pirates
of the Shackles (page 217) has introduced a competing
market for those looking to acquire a black powder
weapon. Buyers must beware however, as the weapons
produced in the Shackles lack the quality and reliability
of firearms produced on the opposite side of Garund.
Alkenstar is a good place to encounter adventurers who
wield high-quality equipment, such as sniping duos or
demolitionists, while the Shackles is known for being
home to many types of pistol phenoms, who remain
quick to draw and fire at a moment’s notice.
The continent Tian Xia and the subcontinent Vudra
(page 220), have also traded in black powder for centuries,
though in relatively small amounts, with a focus more on
explosives than firearms. Nonetheless, merchants making
the cross‑continent trek from the trade ports in Tian Xia
on the eastern side of the continent to the Qadiran ports
far to the west will occasionally hire guards armed with
jezails or Tian mercenaries bearing hand cannons and
fire lances from their homelands. The demolitionist and
fireworks technician archetypes are relatively popular in
Tian Xia and Vudra due to the continents’ extremely long
histories with those uses of black powder.
On the western continent of Arcadia (page 206),
firearm technology has become more common and
more diverse than anywhere else in the world. That said,
firearms that use black powder are a substantially new
development in this region, having only recently been
smuggled halfway across the world from Alkenstar.
Instead, Arcadia is home to several of its own
distinct traditions of firearms, from beast guns, created
through ritualized hunts against mighty monsters
using magical taxidermic techniques, to the legendary
magical star guns that predated the apocalypse of
Earthfall. Aside from beast guns and magical guns
constructed to imitate the legendary star guns, the core
of basic firearms in Arcadia has been based on air gun
technology for centuries.
The most notable region of Arcadia to produce firearms
and firearm wielders is the central basin known as the
Deadshot Lands, which is also home to the few regions in
Arcadia that are beginning to use black powder firearms
in tandem with the traditional Arcadian arsenal. The
beast gunner archetype is a perfect match for Arcadian
characters focused on connecting with the magic of
their beast gun, and the spellshot class archetype is an
excellent fit with the storied Arcadian tradition of using
magical firearms. In this way, Arcadia is home to some
of the most diverse and magical traditions of gunslingers
in the world.
103
103
