Introduction
Gears
Gears
Equipment
Gunslingers
and
Shootists
Guns and
Black
Powder
Equipment
Guns and
Gears on
Golarion
Glossary
and Index
Guns &
GEARS
on the same principles as etheric spirit singers. When
an incorporeal creature enters its square, the device lets
loose an ectoplasmic web that lashes around the creature’s
spectral form. The creature must succeed a DC 26 Reflex
saving throw or become immobilized for 1 round. On a critical
failure, the creature becomes immobilized for 1 minute. In
either case, the incorporeal creature can attempt to Escape
(DC 26).
TIN COBRA
SNARE 5
UNCOMMON
CLOCKWORK
CONSUMABLE MECHANICAL POISON
SNARE
TRAP
Price 23 gp
This clockwork cobra activates when a creature enters its
square, at which point it lashes out and spits venom, dealing
3d6 poison damage. The target must attempt a DC 21 Fortitude
save.
Critical Success The creature is unaffected.
Success The creature takes half damage.
Failure The creature takes full damage and is sickened 1.
Critical Failure The creature takes double damage is sickened 2.
Simple Hazards
The following hazards have simple effects, but they create
those effects using steam or Stasian technology.
STEAM VENTS
HAZARD 4
UNCOMMON
MECHANICAL
STEAM
TRAP
Stealth DC 22 (trained)
Description Large pressurized pipes connected to a trip wire
are rigged to release a blast of steam on trespassers.
Disable Thievery DC 22 (trained) to disconnect the trip wire or
Crafting DC 24 (expert) to carefully reduce the pressure and
prevent the blast
AC 20; Fort +12, Ref +12
Hardness 12, HP 48 (BT 24); Immunities object immunities
Steam Blast [reaction] Trigger The trip wire is pulled or severed,
typically because a creature walked through the square
with the trip wire; Effect Steam erupts from the pipes,
dealing 3d6 bludgeoning damage and 3d6 fire damage
(DC 24 basic Reflex save) to all creatures within 15 feet.
Creatures that critically fail their save are knocked prone.
INSISTENT PRIVACY FENCE
HAZARD 8
RARE
ELECTRICITY
MECHANICAL
TRAP
Stealth DC 30 (expert)
Description A stretch of fence is electrified by a hidden
Stasian coil.
Disable Thievery DC 28 (expert) to carefully disconnect the
coil from the fence or Crafting DC 30 (master) to jury-rig a
grounding device to nullify the shock
AC 25; Fort +20 Ref +14
Hardness 15, HP 60 (BT 30); Immunities object immunities
Shock [reaction] Trigger A creature touches the fence directly or with
a tool or weapon; Effect The fence deals 7d12 electricity
damage to the triggering creature (DC 26 basic Reflex save).
Reset The trap deactivates and resets after 1 minute.
Complex Hazards
The following complex hazard uses clockwork technology.
MALEVOLENT MANNEQUINS
HAZARD 14
UNCOMMON
CLOCKWORK
COMPLEX
HAUNT
MECHANICAL
Stealth +27
Description A host of violent spirits possess three clockwork
mannequins, and each lashes out at any creatures that dare
walk near.
Disable DC 37 Thievery (master) to jam a mannequin’s
clockwork mechanisms or Religion DC 35 (expert) twice to
exorcise a spirit from a mannequin.
AC 35; Fort +26, Ref +28
Hardness 10, HP 70 (BT 35) per mannequin; Immunities critical
hits, object immunities, precision damage; Weaknesses
electricity 20
Awaken [reaction] Trigger A creature comes within 30 feet of a
mannequin; Effect The mannequins all lurch towards the
triggering creature, Striding up to 50 feet, then roll initiative.
Routine (9 actions) Each of the mannequins uses three of
the haunt’s actions on each turn, and the haunt loses
three actions each turn for every disabled or destroyed
mannequin. Each mannequin uses its first action to Stride
up to 50 feet and its remaining two actions to make
clockwork fist Strikes. Each has its own separate multiple
attack penalty.
Melee [one-action] clockwork fist +29, Damage 2d10+18 bludgeoning
Reset The haunt deactivates after it has no target creatures
and resets, usually over the course of 1 round, as the
mannequins move to their original positions. If a mannequin
is more than 150 feet from its original position, the haunt
takes longer to reset, as the mannequin moves back 150
feet each round.
TINY SNARE, BIG EXPLOSION
While most snares take the form of large, carefully
hidden contraptions, some of the snares in this section
resemble tiny clockwork toys or other small objects
that pack a hidden punch. Often whimsical and strange,
these tiny snares might even be fun to play with if
they weren’t dangerous. Gnomes, goblins, kobolds, and
other small creatures take an almost perverse delight
in using these diminutive snares to shock, burn, or
damage any larger folks who make the mistake of
believing that small humanoids are easy pickings.
There is a fine line between legitimate defense and the
machinations of a malicious prankster, however. Many
times, the users of such snares blur those lines out of
schadenfreude or exuberance. Those who adventure
with snarecrafters and trapsmiths are advised to reach
an understanding or at least have a serious conversation
with them, to ensure that their cunning companion
respects their allies’ personal boundaries.
8181
