Introduction
Gears
Characters
Gears
Equipment
Guns
Characters
Guns
Equipment
The Rotating
Gear
Glossary
And Index
Guns &
GEARS
Caught between the warring armies of Geb and Nex for
over a millennium, dwarves of Dongun Hold endured
as their lands became the twisted Mana Wastes and the
surface world they’d fought to find became unlivable.
Determined to chart their own course—not as victims
or survivors but as defiant curators of their own
destinies—dwarves of Dongun Hold bid their Kulenett
kin farewell, destroyed the entrance to Dongun Hold,
and retreated below-ground.
This could have been their end, for without home or
purpose many dwarves found themselves without hope,
but the discovery of a strange black powder changed
the course of their lives. This volatile curiosity became a
balm for despair and provided hope for the future. With
every spark, explosion, and bullet impact, dwarves of
Dongun Hold crept closer to perfecting new weapons
they hoped would ensure their survival against enemies
they’d neither forgotten nor forgiven.
After four millennia, the dwarves have reclaimed
Dongun Hold and allied with Alkenstar. When the
nations of Geb and Nex next wage war, the dwarves
will be ready. They do not intend to lose the Hold again.
History of Dongun Hold
In the distant past, when nomadic dwarves completed
their Quest for Sky and spread across Golarion’s
surface, they constructed ten massive fortresses called
Sky Citadels which became bastions of dwarven culture,
craft, and commerce. While most dwarves engaged in
an endless war against their long-standing orc enemies,
the dwarves of the Dongun Hold Sky Citadel faced a
different threat: a wizard war. As the rival nations of
Geb and Nex battled, Dongun Hold became caught in
the crossfire. Their once-beautiful lands became a magic-
blasted wasteland where magic remained unstable,
the dead walked, and life mutated. As the battle lines
shifted, dwarven lands passed back and forth between
the warring human nations.
In 572 AR, the dwarves of Dongun Hold admitted
their way of life was unsustainable. Too stubborn to cede
their holdings to the petty warring humans who had
spoiled their lands, they bid farewell to their dwarven
kin, the Kulenett, traded news and gifts with them one
last time, and then retreated underground, collapsing
the entrance to Dongun Hold behind them. In time,
the dwarves settled deep below in the Darklands, in a
magic-dead cavern complex in Sekamina, where they
isolated themselves from the surface above.
EXPERIMENTATION IN EXILE
Among the final goods and gifts traded to dwarves
of Dongun Hold by the Kulenett was a strange black
powder. A costly novelty imported from the courts of
Tian Xia at great expense, Vudrani traders brought
the powder to Garund. Incredibly volatile, the black
powder exhibited explosive properties, and was quickly
deemed too dangerous to serve much purpose. But as
the centuries wore on, the dwarves of Dongun Hold saw
potential in the powder.
Driven by worry over the bickering wizards
aboveground, dwarves of Dongun Hold worked to
create weapons capable of overwhelming arcane
opponents and their minions—constructs, fiends,
undead, and the mutants of the Mana Wastes. With
fervent prayers to Torag and Angradd, the dwarven
gods of creation and war, the smiths of Dongun Hold
challenged the boundaries of invention, creating new
crafting methods, arms, and armor. Some among their
number experimented with black powder, creating
minor explosives. These dwarven smiths had received
a more controlled but weaker version of black powder
that Tian Xia had allowed to spread into Vudra. They
learned the powder’s composition, duplicated it, and
then improved it, unlocking the secrets of the more
volatile and stronger powder and setting the stage for
further innovation. In time, the dwarves used black
powder to create new weapons of war, including the first
matchlock—and later flintlock—firearms.
Although the new black powder weapons proved
powerful, their creation and use wasn’t without
incident or detractors. Dwarven smiths and warriors
lost fingers, hands, limbs, and lives to explosions and
misfires, leading many dwarves to question the value
of the weapons—for what use was a weapon that hurt
friend as well as foe? Living in a remote corner of the
Darklands forced the dwarves to rely on themselves
for healing and recovering from these accidents, which
strained resources that otherwise would have been
used to keep society safe from the dangers of Sekamina
that posed a constant threat. In addition to black
powder weapons, the dwarven smiths of Dongun Hold
pursued advancements in the ancient art of crafting
prostheses and mobility devices, which enabled
warriors and smiths to return to the forge and field
of battle. Effective, reliable, and designed for comfort,
dwarven prostheses have evolved over time into works
of exquisite craftsmanship and ingenuity, each richly
decorated and highly prized, even in countries with
their own traditions of producing such devices.
Over millennia, dwarves of Dongun Hold pushed the
boundaries of invention, creating a multitude of firearms,
bullets, explosives, siege weapons, and tools. Today,
they use breech-loaded flintlock firearms, including
a variety of pistols, muskets, and scatterguns. Many
dwarven gunsmiths continue to strive to create new and
more effective types of firearms, though prototypes of
these experimental weapons are incredibly rare, closely
guarded, and usually extremely volatile.
DONGUN HOLD
191
191
