Introduction
Gears
Characters
Gears
Equipment
Guns
Characters
Guns
Equipment
The Rotating
Gear
Glossary
And Index
Guns &
GEARS
Frequency once per round
Requirements Either you used Accidental Shot and hit your
opponent with the Strike this turn, or you used Lucky
Escape since your last turn and the triggering attack
missed you.
You laugh innocently about the inexplicable luck of your last
shot hitting its mark or how close the attack that just missed
you came to taking your head off, causing your foes to
second guess whether it’s a good idea to oppose you in battle.
Attempt to Demoralize either the foe you hit with Accidental
Shot or the foe that missed you due to Lucky Escape. You
use Deception instead of Intimidation to attempt the check
to Demoralize.
UNBELIEVABLE LUCK
FEAT 8
ARCHETYPE
Prerequisites Unexpected Sharpshooter Dedication
While no one, not even you, might appear to understand why,
you demonstrate a greater ability to hit your targets regardless
of the obstacles in your way. You can use the Accidental Shot
activity granted to you by the Unexpected Sharpshooter
Dedication once per hour instead of once per day.
UNBELIEVABLE ESCAPE
FEAT 10
ARCHETYPE
Prerequisites Unexpected Sharpshooter Dedication
Your ability to narrowly evade danger defies all logic. You can
use Lucky Escape once per hour instead of once per day.
I MEANT TO DO THAT [one-action]
FEAT 10
ARCHETYPE
Prerequisites trained in Deception, Unexpected Sharpshooter
Dedication
Frequency once per hour
Requirements Your previous action was a ranged weapon
Strike that missed a foe within 60 feet.
Somehow your stray bullet causes an unintended reaction
that creates a problem for your enemy: perhaps a ricochet
knocks your foe’s weapon away or they stumble over stray
debris in an attempt to dodge your bullets. Roll a Deception
check to attempt to Shove, Trip, or Disarm the foe you missed.
CHAIN REACTION [three-actions]
FEAT 12
ARCHETYPE
Prerequisites Unexpected Sharpshooter Dedication
Frequency once per 10 minutes
You fire your gun once, creating a devastating and
unpredictable chain of events; perhaps your bullet strikes
exactly the right spot on a water tower, causing it to
flood and incite a stampede of horses which knock over a
lantern that sets a city on fire. Whatever the exact chain
reaction, and no matter how improbable, the indiscriminate
catastrophe creates significant challenges for your enemies
across a wide area while leaving everyone else alone.
Make a Strike with a ranged weapon, and if you hit, you
can make another Strike at a target within 30 feet of the
first target. If you hit the second target, attempt to Strike a
third target within 30 feet of the second target, and so on,
continuing until you miss a target. You can cease the chain at
any point; otherwise, it ends when you first miss an attack.
However, you can’t target the same creature more than once;
each time you move to a new target, it must be a target you
haven’t made a Strike against yet during this particular use of
Chain Reaction.
This damage is caused by some improbable set of events
that injures one target after another, rather than from
actually making several shots. Perhaps you shot at a tree
branch that then fell on the targets, or one target’s scream
caused another to accidentally set off their gun and shoot
themselves in the foot. This means that only the first target
suffers any special effects tied to the bullet (if it was magical
ammunition, for example), but each target you hit still takes
the same damage dealt by your Strike. Normally, all damage
is of the same damage type as the initial bullet. However,
the GM might choose to change the damage type based on
their description of the chain reaction. For example, if one
target was burned by fire, that target might take fire damage
instead of physical damage.
SKILLED OR LUCKY?
Part of the fun of roleplaying an unexpected
sharpshooter is the ambiguity and mystery of how
your character achieves their surprising success. Your
character at first seems like they bumble into their
successes through sheer circumstance. However, when
the circumstances pile up, others might start to suspect
another possibility: perhaps your character is secretly
so incredible that they not only achieve impressive
results but do so in a way that hides their skill behind
a veneer of lucky breaks. Ultimately, either could be
true about your character, or some combination of
both. You might decide the truth together with the GM
as soon as you take this archetype or hold off until
later to make that call. Because this archetype hints at
hidden talent intentionally obfuscated, it offers a good
choice for a character who’s secretly more powerful or
skilled than they seem or who must hide their abilities
for some reason—perhaps associated with the plot of
the campaign.
If your inclination is to play a character who hides
their abilities, consider training in the Deception
skill and taking skill feats like Charming Liar and
Confabulator that emphasize your character’s crafty
nature and skill at concealing their true intent.
If you instead prefer to play a character who’s
legitimately a bit uncoordinated but abnormally lucky,
you might choose to pursue actions that have a high
chance of earning you a Hero Point. You could also
consider taking abilities with the fortune or misfortune
traits, such as Halfling Luck or Harbinger’s Caw.
143
143
