Keep track of the level of each creature whose souls are
stored in the reaper’s grasp.
Activate [one-action] envision (evil); Requirements There’s at least
one soul stored in the reaper’s grasp; Effect You channel
the necromantic energy of a soul stored in the weapon
into your next attack, increasing the attack’s destructive
power. Choose a soul stored in the weapon. The next
Strike you make with the reaper’s grasp before the end
of your turn deals an additional negative damage equal
to twice the level of the creature whose soul you chose.
Using this ability releases the chosen soul, and
a skull on the mosaic
fades away.
Activate [one-action] envision (evil);
Requirements There’s at
least one soul stored in the
reaper’s grasp; Effect You
channel the necromantic
energy of a soul stored
in the weapon into a mantle
around you, protecting you from harm. Choose a soul
stored in the weapon. You gain temporary Hit Points equal
to three times the level of the creature whose soul you
chose, which last until the end of your next turn. Using
this ability releases the chosen soul, and a skull on the
mosaic fades away.
ROWAN RIFLE
ITEM 16
UNIQUE
ENCHANTMENT
MAGICAL
PRIMAL
Usage held in two hands; Bulk 2
In a dense forest within Arcadia, djezet fell from the sky
millennia ago, even before Earthfall. While this metal
was poisonous to most of the plant life growing nearby,
one stubborn rowan tree refused to die, its roots slowly
absorbing djezet in small particles from the ground until the
entire plant was suffused with it. Fey bowyers discovered
the remarkable plant and coaxed it into growing into a very
particular shape, its branching trunks woven together into a
tightly twisted and naturally rifled barrel.
One of the legendary star guns, Arcadia’s greatest
treasures, the Rowan Rifle is a +2 greater fearsome speed
greater striking (Advanced Player’s Guide 260) advanced
firearm with a range of increment of 300 feet. It deals 1d8
fire damage and has the backstabber, concussive, and fatal
d12 traits.
As a star gun, the Rowan Rifle runs on magic, and
doesn’t use ammunition or black powder. As a weapon
forged to protect the fey peoples of Arcadia, the Rowan
Rifle’s enchantments prevent it from ever causing harm to
a creature with the fey trait; any attempt to shoot a fey
with it results in an automatic misfire. This legendary star
gun is as much a badge of office as a weapon, as it denotes
dominion over all Briarbough. If the Rowan Rifle’s wielder is
fey, or if they were specifically given the Rowan Rifle by a
fey creature who recognized them as a worthy champion,
they can use the following activations.
Activate [one-action] envision; Effect You will the Rowan Rifle to
change the energy it fires from the white-hot energy of
summer that glows like a star to the shivering chill of
winter, the crackling electricity of the storm, or even the
sonic vibrations of a roar. The Rowan Rifle’s damage type
changes from its current damage type to cold, electricity,
fire, or sonic. On the next sunrise, the Rowan Rifle returns
to dealing fire damage.
Activate [two-actions] command, Interact; Effect The Rowan Rifle
fires a 60-foot line of liquid djezet that wraps around all
creatures in the affected area before
hardening, which impedes them
with metallic vines unless the
affected creature succeeds
at a DC 35 Reflex save. A
creature who fails the save
takes a –15-foot circumstance penalty to their Speeds,
and a creature who critically fails is immobilized. A
creature who succeeds at a DC 35 Escape check ends this
effect. Otherwise, the djezet vines last for 10 minutes
before crumbling away.
Activate command, envision, Interact (1 minute); Frequency
once per 10 minutes; Effect You hold aloft the Rowan Rifle
and step into a tree in Briarbough, and you tree stride to
another tree in Briarbough.
TIGER’S CLAW
ITEM 11
RARE
ILLUSION
PRIMAL
Price 1,400 gp
Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk 1
This +2 striking fearsome dueling pistol (Advanced Player’s
Guide 260) is made from fine tigerwood, with the head
of a tiger as the muzzle. Beneath the tiger head is a claw
shaped bayonet. One of a set of four guns crafted as a gift
to a Zenj family for delivery of rare healing and disease-
abating herbs during an outbreak of a deadly disease in the
Grand Duchy of Alkenstar, these firearms are now passed
down to those who have done brave acts in service to the
Zenj people. The flintlock sparks thrown by this weapon
take the shape of pouncing tigers and the firearm’s report
sounds like a tiger’s growl. Clever wielders use the firearm’s
report to panic their prey into mistakes and then pounce
for the kill.
This firearm’s bullets deal slashing damage instead of
piercing and add an additional 1d6 persistent bleed damage
on a critical hit. This persistent bleed damage causes
tiger‑claw-shaped wounds to appear on the target.
Activate [two-actions] envision; Frequency once per day; Effect You
capitalize on the fears your firearm engenders, terrifying
your foes. Make a ranged Strike with this firearm against
a target. If you successfully deal damage to your target,
the target is also affected by a 4th-level phantasmal killer
with a spell DC of 28. While phantasmal killer typically
takes the shape of the target’s worst fear, this effect
always appears to the target in the form of a majestic and
ferocious tiger.
166
166
Pistol of Wonder
