Introduction
Gears
Characters
Gears
Equipment
Guns
Characters
Guns
Equipment
The Rotating
Gear
Glossary
And Index
Guns &
GEARS
INVENTOR
Any tinkerer can follow a diagram to make a device, but you invent
the impossible! Every strange contraption you dream up is a unique
experiment pushing the edge of possibility, a mysterious machine that
seems to work for only you. You’re always on the verge of the next great
breakthrough, and every trial and tribulation is another opportunity to test and tune. If
you can dream it, you can build it.
DURING COMBAT ENCOUNTERS...
You rely on your inventions as much as possible, testing their functionalities
under a variety of conditions. You don’t set out to achieve anything as banal
as simply winning a fight; you seek to collect valuable data that can be used
to improve your creations!
DURING SOCIAL ENCOUNTERS...
You provide useful context when discussing a variety of academic topics,
particularly when speaking about those subjects related to crafting and
invention. You might often look for opportunities to acquire patronage to
fund some of your more expensive or unorthodox experiments. After all, the
materials needed to assemble your inventions don’t pay for themselves!
WHILE EXPLORING...
You study the design and construction of the environments you explore
ardently, making note of clever traps, ingenious mechanisms, or especially
keen architecture you come across for later.
IN DOWNTIME...
You brainstorm new designs, bringing them to fruition through careful crafting
and meticulous attention to detail. You might also modify previous inventions to
adjust for data you’ve collected in the field. You might work as a local smith or
tinker where your skills are needed, or you might keep a workshop on the edge
of town where the clank and clatter of your experiments attracts less attention.
YOU MIGHT...
•	 Enjoy creating new things the world has never seen before.
•	 Be willing to take a chance on a theory, testing to see if your hypothesis
proves accurate. If not, you probably record the results to try again later.
•	 Wear clothes spattered with oil and grime, or venture off on excited and
technical tangents when asked simple questions.
OTHERS PROBABLY...
•	 Marvel at your inventions and the variety of unbelievable wonder they
can bring.
•	 Believe that you’re a genius whose work is beyond understanding.
•	 Worry that your inventions might backfire or explode.
1515
RARITY
Uncommon
INITIAL PROFICIENCIES
At 1st level, you gain the listed
proficiency ranks in the following
statistics. You are untrained in
anything not listed unless you gain
a better proficiency rank in some
other way.
PERCEPTION
Trained in Perception
SAVING THROWS
Expert in Fortitude
Trained in Reflex
Expert in Will
SKILLS
Trained in Crafting
Trained in a number of additional skills
equal to 3 plus your Intelligence
modifier
ATTACKS
Trained in simple weapons
Trained in martial weapons
Trained in unarmed attacks
DEFENSES
Trained in light armor
Trained in medium armor
Trained in unarmored defense
CLASS DC
Trained in inventor class DC
HIT POINTS
8 plus your Constitution modifier.
You increase your maximum number
of HP by this number at 1st level and
every level thereafter.
KEY ABILITY
INTELLIGENCE
At 1st level, your class gives you an
ability boost to Intelligence.
