Coins district. The imposing structure of metal plates
and massive cogwheels resembles an enormous
mechanical centipede with a clock tower rising from its
back. The gears festooning the building aren’t merely
for decoration; its walls, inner chambers, and outer
plates all move at the behest of the building’s inscrutable
and unseen masters. The structure’s name is something
of a misnomer, as it’s not a religious building but an
educational one.
Aspiring students come from all across Golarion to
learn from the Clockwork Cathedral’s faculty, all of
whom are themselves students with several years of
experience. The mysterious masters of the Clockwork
Cathedral send their trudging servitor constructs around
the academy to do their business. This business includes
not only mundane errands such as tightening loose
screws or sweeping up, but also delivering admission
paperwork and collecting tuition (which is never seen
again). Visitors learn to sidestep these single-minded
servitors, which rarely bother to turn from their business
to avoid trampling an inattentive student or awestruck
passerby. Admission decisions and tuition amounts
seem to be wholly arbitrary, as eager students are just
as likely to be invited into the Clockwork Cathedral’s
shadowy iron halls as they are to be turned away.
Students and faculty of the Clockwork Cathedral
gather in groups called cognates. These groups generally
focus on a single discipline or area of expertise; for
example, the Alive and Ticking cognate specializes in
healing, applying a mechanical mindset to repairing
ailments of the body. The Cog’s Best Friend cognate
focuses on the creation of construct companions, doing
its best to instill ephemeral concepts such as loyalty into
clockwork mechanisms.
The Clockwork Cathedral’s founder and inventor
is a mysterious robed figure called the Assembler (N
agender construct 19). The Assembler arrived
in Absalom’s harbor aboard a clockwork ship
almost a century ago, claiming to be the only
living creature aboard. After purchasing the rights
to an abandoned plot of land near Misery Row, the
Assembler magically transported the clockwork ship
there and, over the course of a month, transformed the
ship into the academy’s current shape.
Despite the many mysteries of its operation, the
Clockwork Cathedral is held in great esteem. Graduates
of its programs in engineering, metallurgy, and
mechanics remain in high demand across the Inner Sea
region. Anyone interested in the lore of clockworks and
related sciences would do well to seek admittance, even
if only for a semester or two.
GALLERY OF INNOVATION
The Clockwork Cathedral isn’t the only place in
Absalom to delve into the mysteries of clockwork
mechanisms. Priests of Brigh in the Ascendant Court
happily chat about engineering and innovation to
visitors. Although each has their own specialties, they
generally know about other worshippers’ research areas
and can point inquirers to the best people to answer
specific or detailed questions.
Absalom’s prominent temple to Brigh is called the
Gallery of Innovation. In addition to functioning as a
museum (with detailed technological exhibits that rotate
regularly), the temple contains several lecture halls,
from which they give and host lectures on a regular
basis. Most of these lectures are on abstruse or highly
specialized topics, so the lecture schedule is set months
in advance to ensure the largest audience of specialized
204
204
Cleric of Brigh
