Introduction
Gears
Characters
Gears
Equipment
Guns
Characters
Guns
Equipment
The Rotating
Gear
Glossary
And Index
Guns &
GEARS
less stable than a tripod, and firing a kickback weapon from
a monopod without the necessary Strength reduces the
penalty to a –1 circumstance penalty instead of removing
it entirely.
Type tripod, shielded; Level 3; Bulk 5; Price 50 gp
A shielded tripod resembles a squat shield on a tripod. You
can deploy and retrieve a shielded tripod with an Interact
action, as normal, but while a shielded tripod is in your
square, you can use the Take Cover action to gain standard
cover behind the tripod’s shield. You can’t use this cover to
Hide or Sneak, as normal for times when your cover still
leaves your position obvious.
OTHER MODIFICATIONS
While holsters, scopes, and stabilizers are some of the
more common accessories associated with firearms and
crossbows, they’re far from the only innovations that
support such weapons. The variety of accessories is
matched only by the inventors’ creativity. Blazons and
emblems for paired weapons are popular purchases for
fashion-oriented aristocrats who like their weapons to
match aesthetically and magically. Talented gunsmiths
produce replaceable barrels, high-end firing mechanisms,
and other commodities for firearm enthusiasts to further
customize their weapons to their preferences.
AIR CARTRIDGE FIRING SYSTEM
ITEM 4
UNCOMMON
Price 75 gp
Usage attached to firearm (firing mechanism); Bulk —
Air cartridge firing mechanisms use a container of
compressed air affixed to a sealed
system that releases the air
in a small burst to propel
ammunition, and they’re the
default used in Arcadian air
repeaters. Any firearm can
be modified to replace its
normal firing mechanism
with an air cartridge firing
system, allowing the weapon
to be fired underwater or in
other conditions that would normally
prevent the ignition of black powder. The air cartridges lack
much of the propulsive power of black powder, however,
imposing a –10-foot penalty to the attached firearm’s range
increment. Weapons with the kickback trait don’t gain that
trait’s benefits when using an air cartridge firing system.
Attaching an air cartridge firing system takes one hour,
though this time can overlap with the standard time required
to maintain and clean your firearm to prevent misfires.
BLAZONS OF SHARED POWER
ITEM 3+
EVOCATION
INVESTED
MAGICAL
Usage worn and attached to two weapons (see below);
Bulk –
These brass emblems come in a variety of designs, usually
customized to the purchaser to reflect the heraldry of a
family or guild. Blazons of shared power come in sets of
three. When you invest the blazons, you wear one of the
three on your chest, and you attach the others to a pair of
one-handed weapons, choosing one as the primary weapon
and one as the secondary weapon. These weapons can be
either melee weapons or ranged weapons. As long as you’re
wielding both the primary weapon and the secondary
weapon, the secondary weapon gains the benefit of the
fundamental runes on the primary weapon. A weapon can
only have a single blazon of shared power attached to it at
a time.
Type blazons of shared power; Level 3; Price 52 gp
Type greater blazons of shared power; Level 11; Price 1,350 gp
A set of greater blazons of shared power also replicates
property runes from the primary weapon, so long as the
secondary weapon meets all the prerequisites for a given
rune and isn’t a specific weapon. The secondary weapon
gains the benefits of those runes. All of its own runes are
suppressed. When you invest the blazons, you can elect for
them to transfer only fundamental runes, in which case they
function as standard blazons of shared power.
BREECH EJECTORS
ITEM 3
UNCOMMON
CONSUMABLE
Price 10 gp
Usage attached to firearm (firing mechanism); Bulk —
These spring-loaded inserts can be fitted into the breech of
a double-barreled firearm over the course of 10 minutes or
during the firearm’s daily maintenance. After the weapon is
fired, the ejectors hasten the reloading
process by ejecting the spent
detritus from the fired rounds.
This allows you to reload
both barrels of the double-
barreled weapon as a single
Interact action the next time
you reload the weapon as
long as you do so before the
end of your next turn. However,
the ejectors are consumed in the
process, and you must spend the time to
insert a new set to gain the benefit again.
LARGE BORE MODIFICATIONS
ITEM 5
UNCOMMON
Price 120 gp
Usage attached to firearm; Bulk 1
These modifications include a heavier stock and larger
replacement barrel designed to increase the stopping power
of firearms. Large bore modifications can only be applied to
firearms with the kickback or scatter traits, and attaching
large bore modifications takes 1 hour, though this time can
overlap with the standard time required to maintain and
clean your firearm to prevent misfires.
183
183
Blazons of shared power
