Introduction
Gears
Characters
Gears
Equipment
Guns
Characters
Guns
Equipment
The Rotating
Gear
Glossary
And Index
Guns &
GEARS
MORTAL CONSTRUCTS
Jistka was dying. Assailed by enemies from without
and internecine rot from within, it was only a matter of
time before the Imperium crumbled, its extraordinary
innovations obliterated by Osirion’s armies. In a last-ditch
effort to salvage their culture and sciences, a relatively
scrupulous cabal formed the Artificer Conclave, dedicated
to preserving its ways and ultimately restoring the Imperium
to its former glory. Within a few years, several members
had perished, and the survivors could see the impossible
enormity of their task. They could never achieve their goals
alone, and they certainly could never do so as infirmity and
attrition whittled down their numbers. In response, they
adapted their golemcraft traditions to accept a different
type of animating force: not an elemental or a fiend, but
their own mortal life forces and souls.
The experiments exceeded all expectations, far
surpassing any previous golemcraft in its intricacy and
performance. Known as an automaton (page 36), each of
these constructs preserved the intelligence, personality, and
skills of its mortal subject, all while providing the mortal
a golem’s physical might and longevity. The secret was
the automaton core, a marvelous fusion of spellcasting
traditions that sustained the mortal’s soul and powered
the automaton’s body. As with a lich’s phylactery, the
core’s destruction would destroy the individual. In theory,
the artificers hoped that if the core survived, it could be
transplanted into a new automaton body, allowing each
preserved Jistkan to survive even apparent destruction.
The Conclave swiftly recruited Jistka’s best, brightest,
and most scrupulous, creating a host of automatons
that preserved these paragons. Most of these champions
scattered across Golarion and the planes, seeking military
aid against the Imperium’s enemies, magic to rebuild the
Imperium’s devastated cities, and philosophies to restore
the Imperium’s soul. Insulated by immortal bodies and
confronted with the infinite potential of the planes, many
of these seekers became distracted, realizing that the
Imperium had already crumbled only by the time they
returned from a casual century of research. Others secured
help but returned to realize it was too little, too late; the
Imperium had become too beleaguered and too morally
bankrupt to save. Those who remained in northern Garund
fared little better; a few organized resistance forces to stave
off Osirion and imperial pretenders alike were destroyed
or scattered by the impossible odds. Others shepherded
Jistkan survivors to forgotten sanctuaries, where they
either abandoned their old affiliations or perished, leaving
only their demoralized automaton guardians.
Ultimately, the Artificer Conclave disintegrated. No
known record of its members survives, much less explains
where they went. While automatons still exist across the
multiverse, there’s no telling just how numerous they are.
Several live on Axis, where they dwell among the aeons
that inspired the earliest Jistkans. At least a few still roam
Golarion; among these, some cling to a fading Jistkan
dream, while others long ago forgot their futile quest
and adopted new causes. Others remain only as cores,
helplessly trapped in broken bodies or collapsed ruins.
Whatever the case, passing ages have reinforced one of
the automatons’ greatest weaknesses: their mortal psyches.
For beings meant to live a century, only the strongest willed
have managed to retain their memories, sense of self, and
lucidity after more than 8,000 years. Many automatons
can’t recall their ancient pasts. Others have developed
nervous tics as their minds wrestle with immortality.
Others still have dissociated completely from their mortal
identities, slowly transforming into emotionless constructs
except for fleeting moments where they can remember
what it means to be alive. With so few of the Conclave left,
it’s no wonder the secret to creating cores is presumed lost.
JISTKAN RUINS
Time and ancient Osirian vendettas demolished many
of Jistka’s wonders, yet forgotten sites periodically
resurface, tempting explorers the world over.
Lost Yemal: Once a remote town along Jistka’s
southern border, Yemal was one of the last refuges
from Osirion’s wrath. Jistkan officials hid many of the
Imperium’s greatest treasures there, sealing them within
a foreboding tomb. Osirion at last crushed the town,
but some supernatural force trapped and consumed
any soldiers who entered the tomb. The monument still
stands, daring any who would steal Jistka’s last legacy.
Rachikan: Considered the greatest forge city, Rachikan
was built within one of the massive Pillars of Anferita
rising along Cheliax’s west coast. There it refined and
created the terrifying fiend-infused golems until an
earthquake buried much of the city. Looters scavenged
from the upper ruins, yet many of the constructs remain
functional and vigilant, and the city was forgotten
and rediscovered by Pathfinders only a decade ago. In
addition to the animated marvels sealed inside, rumors
speak of territorial morlocks dwelling within the deepest
levels; their language, tools, and religion all resemble
Jistkan ones.
Teskra: The so-called Hanging City spanned a massive
canyon in Rahadoum’s Napsune Mountains, serving as
a crowning achievement late in Jistka’s rule. In addition
to its magnificent bridges, Teskra housed palatial
gardens occupied by wondrously lifelike constructs
that resembled and behaved like real animals. Shortly
after Teskra’s completion, citizens began disappearing
mysteriously, with all of the city’s dwindling population
wordlessly vanishing into the mountains in –3388 ar. In
the millennia since, the construct creatures have escaped
and roam the city freely, maintained by equally lifelike
yet ageless humanoid caretakers. No doubt some of
Jistka’s greatest construct technologies lie hidden within
Teskra’s ruins.
215
215
