	 utility gear 84–89
	 weapons 62–64, 150–167, CR 278–286, APG 248
kickback (weapon trait) A kickback weapon is extra
powerful and difficult to use due to its high recoil. A
kickback weapon deals 1 additional damage with all
attacks. Firing a kickback weapon
gives a –2 circumstance penalty
to the attack roll, but characters
with 14 or more Strength ignore
the penalty. Attaching a kickback
weapon to a deployed bipod, tripod,
or other stabilizer can lower or negate
this penalty. 150
light (trait) Light effects overcome non-magical
darkness in the area, and can counteract
magical darkness. You must usually target darkness
magic with your light magic directly to counteract the
darkness, but some light spells automatically attempt to
counteract darkness.
linguistic (trait) An effect with this trait depends on
language comprehension. A linguistic effect that targets
a creature works only if the target understands the
language you are using.
low-light vision (sense) See in dim light as though it were
bright light.
magical (trait) Something with the magical trait is imbued
with magical energies not tied to a specific tradition of
magic. A magical item radiates a magic aura infused with
its dominant school of magic.
Some items or effects are closely tied to a particular
tradition of magic. In these cases, the item has the
arcane, divine, occult, or primal trait instead of the
magical trait. Any of these traits indicate that the item
is magical. CR 535
manipulate (trait) You must physically manipulate an item or
make gestures to use an action with this trait. Creatures
without a suitable appendage can’t perform actions with
this trait. Manipulate actions often trigger reactions.
mechanical (trait) A hazard with this trait is a constructed
physical object. CR 521
mental (trait) A mental effect can alter the target’s mind.
It has no effect on an object or a mindless creature.
Mindless creatures and objects are entirely immune to a
mental creature and can’t perceive it.
misfire Firearms that are improperly maintained or
subjected to unusual strain can misfire. 107
modification (trait) A feat with this trait alters the
construction of your innovation. If you have the
reconfigure class feature (page 20), you can retrain such
a feat more easily.
modular (weapon trait) The weapon has multiple
configurations that you can switch between using
an Interact action. Typically, switching between
configurations of a modular weapon allows
it to deal different types of damage (listed
in the trait, such as “modular B, P, or S”),
though it’s possible for a modular weapon’s
description
to
list
more
complicated
configurations. 151
monk (weapon trait) Abilities with this
trait are from the monk class. Weapons
with this trait are primarily used by
monks. CR 283
mounted (siege weapon trait) Mounted
siege weapons take up a certain size
and space, and typically have statistics
to allow them to be attacked. They’re used for large-scale
warfare. 72–73
move (trait) An action with this trait involves moving from
one space to another. CR 473–475
necromancy (trait) Effects and magic items with this trait
are associated with the necromancy school of magic,
typically involving the forces of life and death.
occult (trait) This magic comes from the occult tradition,
calling upon bizarre and ephemeral mysteries. Anything
with this trait is magical. CR 299
parry (weapon trait) This weapon can be used defensively
to block attacks. While wielding this weapon, if your
proficiency with it is trained or better, you can spend
an Interact action to position your weapon defensively,
gaining a +1 circumstance bonus to AC until the start of
your next turn. CR 283
perception A statistic measuring your ability to notice
hidden objects or unusual situations. Perception is
usually used for initiative rolls. CR 13, 27, 448, 464-467
poison (trait) An effect with this trait delivers a poison or
deals poison damage. An item with this trait is poisonous
and might cause an affliction. CR 457–458
234
234
