Introduction
Gears
Characters
Gears
Equipment
Guns
Characters
Guns
Equipment
The Rotating
Gear
Glossary
And Index
Guns &
GEARS
the Astral Plane, allowing you to teleport periodically. You
can cast dimension door once per hour as a 4th-level innate
arcane spell.
Enhancement Your attunement allows you to teleport
in a series of quick jumps rather than in one big leap. You
can expend your hourly use of dimension door as a free
action when you begin your turn. If you do, your Strides
are augmented until the end of your turn, allowing you
to instantly teleport to any point you could reach with
your Speed instead of traversing normally to the location.
While augmented, your Strides gain the conjuration and
teleportation traits. Your augmented Strides don’t trigger
reactions that can be triggered by move actions or upon
leaving or entering a square, unless those reactions trigger
on teleportation.
CORE REJUVENATION [free-action]
FEAT 13
AUTOMATON
Frequency once per day
Trigger You have the dying condition and are about to
attempt a recovery check.
Your soul taps into your core’s power to push against the
grasp of death and allow you to recover consciousness.
You’re restored to 1 Hit Point, lose the dying and unconscious
conditions, and can act normally on this turn. You gain or
increase the wounded condition as normal when losing the
dying condition in this way.
Enhancement Your soul can draw even more power from
your core, granting you additional benefits. When you use
Core Rejuvenation, you also gain a number of temporary
Hit Points equal to three times your level. These Hit Points
remain for 1 minute.
ENLARGED CHASSIS
FEAT 13
AUTOMATON
Prerequisites Medium or Small size
You’ve empowered your core to support a larger body,
granting you size and additional reach. You gain the effects
of enlarge constantly.
Enhancement Your core’s empowerment has stabilized,
allowing for greater support. You are no longer clumsy due
to the effects of enlarge.
17TH LEVEL
AXIAL RECALL
FEAT 17
UNCOMMON
AUTOMATON
You have reconfigured the magical resonance of your core to
attune to the planar energies of Axis. You can cast plane shift
twice per week as an arcane innate spell that can only target
yourself; you can travel only to Axis or the Material Plane,
and your body serves as the focus component.
CORE CANNON [two-actions]
FEAT 17
ARCANE
AUTOMATON
CONCENTRATE
POLYMORPH
TRANSMUTATION
Frequency once per day
Your body transforms into a powerful magical cannon.
While immobile as a cannon, you can fire blasts of energy
directly from your core, devastating your foes. You become
immobilized until you use an Interact action to revert back
to your standard form. While in your cannon form, the
only actions you can use are to Strike with an energy blast
unarmed attack or to Interact to revert back to your standard
form. You can remain in your cannon form for up to 1 minute
or until you take the action to revert back to your standard
form, whichever comes first.
Energy blasts are a special ranged unarmed attack. You
can only make energy blast Strikes while you’re in your
cannon form. Your energy blasts deal 3d8 fire damage and
3d6 force damage, which increases to 4d8 fire damage and
3d6 force damage at level 20. You gain the item bonus to
attack rolls with your energy blasts from the highest potency
rune on any handwraps of mighty blows you are wearing
or any weapon you are wielding, but striking and property
runes have no effect on your energy blasts. Energy blasts
have a range increment of 120 feet. On a critical hit with
an energy blast, the target takes 10 persistent fire damage.
Your energy blast doesn’t add critical specialization effects.
If it matters for an effect dependent on weapon damage dice,
an energy blast’s number of weapon damage dice is three, or
four at level 20.
GREATER AUGMENTATION
FEAT 17
AUTOMATON
You’ve greatly improved your abilities and your core can
support further augmentations. You gain the enhancement
benefits of one of your 1st-, 5th-, 9th-, or 13th-level automaton
ancestry feats.
You are also capable of reconfiguring your augmentations
to meet your needs. You can spend one week of downtime to
change the enhancement you gain with this feat.
VERSATILE HERITAGES
Since automatons have artificial bodies, they don’t
manifest the features of versatile heritages, even if
the soul within their core did so in life. As a result,
most automatons don’t have a versatile heritage.
However, players who are interested in taking a
versatile heritage are encouraged to speak with their
GM to best determine an explanation for the versatile
heritage. Since an automaton core draws on planar
energy, there is a chance that said energy manifests in
a versatile heritage, such as a tiefling automaton with
an overabundance of Hell’s planar energy. Alternatively,
a powerful soul might still be able to manifest the
features of their heritage they had prior to transfer
to an automaton body. An automaton with a versatile
heritage will have minimal physical changes if any,
though the color of energy that courses through their
core and the rest of their body might change to properly
represent the versatile heritage.
43
43
