COMMON BACKGROUNDS
The following common backgrounds are particularly
appropriate for characters that interact with guns,
areas that have guns, and gun-related themes. While
the backgrounds are listed as common for an area with
themes of guns and gears, and their mechanics and story
impact aren’t likely to require a discussion with your
GM or the other players, many of them still might not
be thematically appropriate for regions and campaigns
that lack these themes. Thus, be sure to discuss with your
group before using these backgrounds in a campaign
without any guns to ensure that your expectations
match those of the other players.
BACK-ALLEY DOCTOR
BACKGROUND
You’re the medic many turn to when a more official clinic or
healer might not be available. You may specialize in stitching
up bullet wounds or have a standing, confidential deal with
a criminal syndicate to provide your services any time of
day or night. In either case, you’ve perhaps turned to the
adventuring life because a former client is unhappy with
your work or members of the local constabulary have been
asking too many questions.
Choose two ability boosts. One must be to Constitution or
Wisdom, and one is a free ability boost.
You’re trained in the Medicine skill and the
Underworld Lore skill. You gain the Risky
Surgery (Advanced Player’s Guide 208) skill feat.
CANNONEER
BACKGROUND
You served as a crewmate aboard a military
vessel or pirate ship and were responsible for
the use and maintenance of the ship’s cannons. A
strong back and quick reflexes were equally
important to you in your duties, and you know
your way around explosives and the dangers
that lie therein. These skills serve you well in
your new life as an adventurer, as compared
to the weight of a cannon, a gear load that
makes your allies blanche just makes you
laugh instead.
Choose two ability boosts. One boost must
be to Dexterity or Strength, and one is a free
ability boost.
You’re trained in the Athletics skill and the
Warfare Lore skill. You gain the Hefty Hauler
skill feat.
DEPUTY
BACKGROUND
While your life may have taken some twists
and turns in the intervening years, you were
once deputized as the lawful protector of
a community. While the role was temporary
and you’ve since turned in your badge, that
responsibility shaped you. Whenever a community is in
trouble, and the sheriff is nowhere to be found, residents call
on you to capture a criminal, rescue the mayor’s offspring
from bandits, or go toe to toe with outlaws.
Choose two ability boosts. One must be to Dexterity or
Wisdom, and one is a free ability boost.
You’re trained in the Survival skill and the Hunting Lore
skill. You gain the Experienced Tracker skill feat.
FIREWORKS PERFORMER
BACKGROUND
Few celebrations in Tian-Xia are complete without a show of
fireworks, and your job is to make sure they go off without a
hitch. You load the fireworks, set the fuses, and choreograph
the performance, bringing the show together in a finale of
lights and explosions. Then it’s time to pack up your gear
and move on to the next civic holiday or religious festival.
Of course, someone who travels the roads with a pack full
of high explosives is bound to run into an adventure or two
along the way, and so over time, your fireworks have been
spent in support of that life.
Choose two ability boosts. One must be to Intelligence or
Charisma, and one is a free ability boost.
You’re trained in the Performance skill and the Engineering
Lore skill. You gain the Fascinating Performance
skill feat.
GUNSMITH
BACKGROUND
From a young age, you apprenticed to an
experienced gunsmith and over time your skill
and knowledge rose to match that of your master.
Today, you can easily repair, modify, or improve
nearly any firearm you’ve seen before, and even if
you haven’t seen it, you’ll break it down to learn about
what makes it tick in no time.
You’ve taken those skills on the
road, using them to assist yourself
and your allies as an adventurer
when it comes to maintaining their
weapons, shields, armor, and more.
Choose two ability boosts. One of
these boosts must be to Intelligence or
Dexterity, and one is a free ability boost.
You’re trained in the Crafting skill and the
Engineering Lore skill. You gain the Quick
Repair skill feat.
HIRED KILLER
BACKGROUND
Your life truly began after your first kill.
Maybe you killed in self-defense, maybe
it was a crime of passion, or maybe it was
just an accident and you were a kid in the
wrong place at the wrong time. In the end,
the why doesn’t matter. You got away with it.
And then you found that maybe it didn’t bother
you as much as it should have. And maybe, just
122
122
Saloon Entertainer
