Introduction
Gears
Gears
Equipment
Gunslingers
and
Shootists
Guns and
Black
Powder
Equipment
Guns and
Gears on
Golarion
Glossary
and Index
Guns &
GEARS
Bolt Blast is used within the next minute, the damage it
deals increases to 7d12.
Quaking Step The ground shakes with every step a titanic
stomper takes. Whenever this vehicle moves, creatures
on the ground within 20 feet of its movement path
must attempt a DC 32 Reflex save. On a failure, they are
flat‑footed for 1 round, and on a critical failure, they’re
knocked prone.
CLOCKWORK CASTLE
VEHICLE 16
RARE
GARGANTUAN
Price 30,000 gp
While the name slightly overstates its size, nonetheless a
magical clockwork castle is a sizable mobile fortress built on
ten spiderlike clockwork legs, with three stories of palatial
accommodations within. Legends tell of a unique clockwork
castle massively larger even than this size, perhaps an artifact
in its own right.
Space 30 feet long, 30 feet wide, 35 feet high
Crew 1 pilot, 2 crew; Passengers 10
Piloting Check Driving Lore (DC 35),
Arcana (DC 39), or Crafting (DC
37)
Wind-Up 10 minutes of wind-up,
1 hour of operational time, DC 35,
standby
AC 36; Fort +28
Hardness 20; HP 250 (BT 125);
Immunities object immunities
Speed 40 feet (clockwork, magical)
Collision 11d10 (DC 35)
Environmental
Protections
This
vehicle’s interior temperature is magically
maintained. Creatures inside this vehicle
are protected from severe cold, severe heat,
extreme cold, and extreme heat.
Luxurious Accommodations This vehicle contains a bridge,
engineering room, private sleeping quarters for up to 13
creatures, and four additional rooms (typically a dining
room, kitchen, lavatory, and meeting room).
Maneuverable This vehicle is mounted on ten spider-like legs
that enable it to turn swiftly, turn in place, and even move
backward. Each 90-degree turn made in less than a vehicle
length costs 5 extra feet of movement; so, for example, it
costs 10 feet of movement for the vehicle to turn around
and begin moving backward. This vehicle loses these
benefits when broken.
Skewering Step [three-actions] (attack) Two crew members each
perform a 3-action activity on their turn to skewer nearby
enemies with the clockwork castle’s legs. All creatures
under or adjacent to the vehicle at the end of the second
character’s turn take 7d8 piercing damage (DC 35 basic
Reflex save).
Weapon Mounts This vehicle has four rooftop weapon mounts;
one mount on each corner of the vehicle. At purchase, these
weapon mounts are initially empty. Installing or uninstalling
a weapon into a weapon mount requires 10 minutes, a
successful DC 35 Crafting check, and an appropriate
weapon. Three of these weapon mounts can be equipped
with ranged weapons, and the fourth can be equipped with
a ranged siege weapon of size Large or smaller.
VONTHOS’S GOLDEN BRIDGE
VEHICLE 17
UNIQUE
LARGE
Price 50,000 gp
Crafted by the wizard Vonthos as part of his bid to attempt
the Test of the Starstone in Absalom, this strange vehicle
is considered to be a magical and technological marvel.
Vonthos’s Golden Bridge is a flying sphere made out of a
throne surrounded by several clockwork rings covered in gold
and gems infused with powerful adaptive abjurations that
grant it unique abilities.
Space 9 feet long, 9 feet wide, 9 feet high
Crew 1 pilot
Piloting Check Driving Lore (DC 36) or Arcana
(DC 38)
AC 39; Fort +29
Hardness 20; HP 310 (BT 155);
Immunities object immunities
Speed fly 40 feet (clockwork,
magical)
Collision 11d10 (DC 36)
Captivating
Wealth
(aura,
enchantment, magic, mental,
visual) 40 feet. The gold, gems,
and other embellishments that adorn
this flying sphere emit a sparkling
resplendence
capable
of
enthralling
creatures. Each creature that begins its turn
within the aura must attempt a DC 36 Will
save; on a failure, the creature is fascinated and stupefied
2 for as long as it remains within the aura. A creature that
succeeds is temporarily immune for 1 hour. Each time
Prismatic Defense is activated, the area of Captivating
Wealth is reduced by 10 feet for 1 hour, to a minimum of
0 feet.
Protective Barrier While the swirling rings of the vehicle
don’t fully cover the pilot, they offer incredible protection,
magically maintaining the temperature within and ablating
physical attacks. The pilot is protected from severe cold,
severe heat, extreme cold, and extreme heat. The pilot
also gains resistance 10 to all physical damage (except
adamantine).
Prismatic Defense [one-action] (abjuration, magical) The pilot harnesses
power from the magical gemstones hidden among this
vehicle’s extravagant embellishments to grant the vehicle
additional defenses. This vehicle gains resistance 20 to one
of the following energy damage types: acid, cold, electricity,
fire, force, or sonic. This immunity lasts until Prismatic
Defense is next activated.
Wind-Up 10 minutes of wind-up, 1 hour of operational time,
DC 37, standby
99
99
Vonthos’s Golden Bridge
