Black powder weapons have many permutations
throughout history, from simple, handheld affairs
built for self-defense to mighty cannons designed
to blast holes in castle walls and fortifications. In
the world in which you, the reader, live, the history
of firearms followed a meandering course around
the globe, developing in a slow and uneven arc with
many dead-ends and tributaries of varying success and
longevity. On Golarion, a world of spells and myths,
creatures and cataclysms, this developmental arc is
even more diverse, with unexpected leaps forward and
unique variations incorporating elements only possible
in a world of magic and fantastical creatures.
This chapter will showcase a variety of firearms.
Some have historical inspirations, while others are
more unusual black powder weapons, never seen
on Earth due to the differences in the two worlds’
technological advancements, historical eras, and
societal shifts. We’ve also included a short segment
here to talk about the ways in which the development,
spread, and evolution of firearms on Golarion differs
significantly from those on Earth.
Firearms on Golarion
Golarion’s guns come from three different continents
and have spread to at least two more, with each
devising their own particular style and gunsmithing
techniques. In Tian Xia, the birthplace of black powder,
GUNS EQUIPMENT
The greatest lesson I’ve learned from my dwarf allies is that progress and innovation
demand patience and iteration. In a few short years I have grown a duchy from a blasted
desert with the gift of my ambition, but it shall outlast me thanks to the gifts our patient
dwarven neighbors have laboriously engineered. These weapons, these “guns,” named for
this dwarven kingdom, were meticulously crafted one painstaking piece at a time over
decades. High King Arunak told me once that she personally built the firing mechanism of
the weapon she carries today nearly 50 years past, hand crafting each component dozens,
even hundreds, of times until she made the most perfect version of each part.
When I showed her the first of the weapons forged by my own hands—a heavy,
handheld affair with three barrels and a sliding catch mechanism so that multiple shots
could be prepared and easily reloaded even when carrying a sword or shield—I thought
she would be dismayed or even disappointed by my hubris. But instead, she smiled
and acknowledged what we both knew in our hearts to be true. “We shall be stronger
together than we could ever hope to be apart.”
When I’m gone, if Arunak’s heir and my distant successor have kept the dream we kindled
together alive, may liches and monsters quake in fear of the weapons we have wrought.
Let humans and dwarves challenge villains with weapons of defiance forged by countless
lives dedicated toward a single purpose. Let the dragons beware—here, there be guns!
—Ancil Alkenstar, the first Duke of Alkenstar
gunslingers tend to prefer more versatile weapons,
such as the modular hand cannon and the fire lance, a
precursor to the more complex combination weapons
presented later in this chapter.
In Arcadia, home to millennia-old guns that use
magic rather than science to propel their ammunition,
multiple traditions and lineages exist, none of which
used the black powder essential to other continents’
firearms. Arcadian firearms range from the mystical
beast guns to the scientifically produced air guns, as
well as the legendary star guns that inspire the hearts
of Arcadians even now, thousands of years after the
secrets of their creation were lost to time.
In Garund, the forges of Dongun Hold and Alkenstar
billow smoke and flame night and day as industrious
smiths constantly innovate, developing new varieties
of guns and creating special customizations and
attachments to improve nearly any firearm.
You can find more information on all these regions in
The Rotating Gear chapter starting on page 186.
THE BIRTH OF GUNS
While Arcadia has had firearms for millennia longer
than any other continent, these didn’t use black
powder at all. The first firearms, beast guns, and star
guns worked purely via magical processes. The many
wards and magical anomalies that guard passage
to Arcadia’s shores have kept beast and star guns
146
146
