Introduction
Gears
Characters
Gears
Equipment
Guns
Characters
Guns
Equipment
The Rotating
Gear
Glossary
And Index
Guns &
GEARS
While most backgrounds are available to any character,
some backgrounds are so unusual that just having them
makes a character rare and extraordinary.
These rare backgrounds can give a player a significantly
different roleplaying experience by setting their character
up with a history or legacy beyond the norm, situated in
a special position within the narrative. Your character’s
background is an intrinsic part of where they come from
and not something they earn during the game. Rare
backgrounds should be chosen only after a discussion
with the GM as to whether one would apply for a
particular character in your group’s game.
OTHERWORLDLY MISSION
BACKGROUND
RARE
You’re called to serve a specific purpose—your deity told you
so, and so it must be true. Maybe you grew up knowing all
along, or maybe it came to you one day in a vision, clear as
a bell and twice as loud. You have some task that only you
can accomplish. You mission might be as dangerous as
killing a deadly tyrant or as simple as opening a particular
door on a particular day.
You should work with your GM on how to handle the
truth of your character’s backstory or leave it to the GM
to decide in secret. Is this call to action a message from the
character’s own mind, are they being manipulated by some
manner of supernatural entity, or are they actually getting
marching orders from one of the deities of the setting?
Choose two ability boosts. One must be to Wisdom or
Charisma, and one is a free ability boost.
You’re trained in Religion. Once per adventure, you can ask
the voice you believe to be a deity for orders and get some kind
of instruction—you never get any kind of explanation, simply a
command to go somewhere or do something. Following those
commands isn’t always safe, but it’s usually interesting.
REVENANT
BACKGROUND
RARE
You died. No real doubt about that. Bullet to the brain or knife
to the throat, you were dead as dead can be. Then you got
back up again. Maybe you had some unfinished business, or
maybe you were just so tough and so mean that Hell itself
spat you out. Either way, you came back for a reason.
Choose two ability boosts. One must be to Constitution or
Charisma, and one is a free ability boost.
You’re trained in Religion and Boneyard Lore. You’re still
alive, not undead, but you have the negative healing ability,
which means you’re harmed by positive damage and healed
by negative effects as if you were undead.
TALL TALE
BACKGROUND
RARE
You’ve ridden a tornado, lassoed a river, mooned a dragon under
RARE BACKGROUNDS
a full moon, and shot six zombies with one bullet. That’s what
the stories say, anyway, and even if people don’t strictly believe
them, they are curious about you. Certainly, the stories keep
spreading, and it would appear that you either have a unique
destiny or are trying to convince the world that you do.
Choose two ability boosts. One must be to Constitution or
Charisma, and one is a free ability boost.
You’re trained in Performance. You gain the Impressive
Performance skill feat. You can gain the Connections skill
feat later without being expert in Society or having Courtly
Graces—this represents less traditional social connections
and more the way that your legend has spread, and you’ve
learned to leverage your legend, with people wanting to
meet you and see you for themselves.
125
125
Tall Tale
