weapon doesn’t already have the thrown trait, it gains the thrown 10 feet trait during
a Rebounding Assault.
If both attacks are successful, the bolt or bullet hits the thrown melee weapon instead
of your target, adding its force into one attack. Combine the damage from both Strikes,
using the thrown weapon’s damage type, and add an additional 1d6 precision damage.
The impact sends the melee weapon rebounding off the target and back to your hand.
In any circumstance other than both attacks hitting, carry out the individual Strikes
normally. The thrown weapon doesn’t rebound and remains in the target’s space as
normal for thrown weapons.
REDIRECTING SHOT [reaction]
FEAT 10
FORTUNE
GUNSLINGER
Trigger An ally misses with a ranged attack that uses a thrown weapon or
ammunition. The ally must be willing to accept your assistance, you must see the
attack’s target, and the attack’s target must be within the first range increment of
your firearm or crossbow.
Requirements You’re wielding a loaded firearm or crossbow.
Seeing your ally’s attack about to go astray, you fire your weapon to right its course.
Discharge your firearm and roll a d20. Your ally uses this roll instead of their own,
and the attack ignores bonuses the target would gain against the attack from lesser
or standard cover.
TRICK SHOT [two-actions]
FEAT 10
GUNSLINGER
Requirements You’re wielding a loaded crossbow or firearm.
You shoot not at your foe but at an object nearby. Make a Strike with your firearm
against an AC equal to an easy DC for your level (Core Rulebook 504). On a success,
instead of hitting your foe, your attack hits an object behind or to the side of your
target, creating one of the following effects. The GM might determine that a different
AC is appropriate or that a particular effect isn’t a valid option, such as using the
explosive barrel option when there’s no such object on the battlefield. The GM should
inform you if a Trick Shot is feasible before you spend your actions, since your trained
eye can easily recognize loose or volatile objects.
•	 Dislodge Object Your attack knocks an unattended object of no more than 2
Bulk out of position, moving it up to 10 feet in a direction of your choice. For
example, the weapon could knock a wizard’s crystal ball off a table.
•	 Explosive Barrel Your attack strikes a barrel of expensive rum, a vial of volatile
alchemical fluids, a demonic pustule erupting from the earth, or some other
explosive object. The object explodes in a 20-foot burst, and creatures in the
area take 6d6 damage with a basic Reflex save against your class DC. The
damage type is chosen by the GM, based on the exploding object. Increase the
damage by 1d6 for every 2 levels you have above 10th.
TWIN SHOT KNOCKDOWN [two-actions]
FEAT 10
GUNSLINGER
Requirements You’re wielding a loaded crossbow or loaded firearm in each hand.
You fire at an enemy while targeting a part of its anatomy that will disrupt its
balance. Make two Strikes against the same target, one with each of the required
weapons. If both Strikes are successful, the target is also knocked prone.
12TH LEVEL
BLOOD IN THE AIR [one-action]
FEAT 12
CONCENTRATE
GUNSLINGER
Requirements An enemy you’ve damaged with a ranged weapon during the last
minute is concealed or hidden from you.
SAMPLE GUNSLINGER
PISTOLERO
Quick wits and faster hands mean
you’re always ready for anything.
ABILITY SCORES
Prioritize Dexterity, followed by
Charisma and Constitution.
SKILLS
Acrobatics, Deception, Intimidation,
Thievery
WAY
Pistolero
FEATS
Dual-Weapon Reload (1st), Pistol Twirl
(2nd), Paired Shots (4th)
116
116
