Introduction
Gears
Characters
Gears
Equipment
Guns
Characters
Guns
Equipment
The Rotating
Gear
Glossary
And Index
Guns &
GEARS
Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk L
Activate [one-action] Interact
An instant spy is a tiny clockwork device that is small enough
to be easily hidden. It contains the same audio-recording
mechanisms as a clockwork spy (Pathfinder Bestiary 3 48),
as well as a short‑lived gemstone that can store up to 1 hour
of sound to play back later.
Once you have activated the instant spy, it surreptitiously
begins recording all the sounds around it for an hour. In
general, it can hear sounds that are clearly audible in the
location where you activated it, but not sounds that would
require a Perception check with a DC of 10 or greater to
hear. The GM determines exactly what the instant spy can
hear and record, as well as whether or not the recording
is clear in a situation where the original sound is quiet,
distorted, or intentionally obscured.
When the recording is complete, once within the next 24
hours, you or another creature can use an Interact action
to play back the stored audio in its entirety, after which the
gem crumbles to dust. If no one plays the recorded sounds
back within 1 day, the gem crumbles into dust anyway.
This prevents the information from falling into the wrong
hands later. It’s typical to use the Conceal an Object action
to hide an instant spy in a location once you’ve activated
it, since if you don’t hide it, it’s relatively easy to discover
in a thorough search, despite the fact that it’s small and
relatively unobtrusive.
MAGNETIC SUIT
ITEM 4+
AURA
CONSUMABLE
Usage worn over armor and clothes; Bulk 1
Activate [two-actions] Interact
This magnetized suit is strapped to your body over your
armor or clothes. When you Activate it, you must choose
whether to set it to attract or repel.
While set to attract, you take a –1 item penalty to your
AC against attacks made by metal weapons, while creatures
within a 5-foot emanation other than you gain a +1 item
bonus to their AC. If set to repel, you gain a +1 item bonus
to AC against attacks made with metal weapons. While
attracting metal, you gain a +1 item bonus to Athletics
checks to Climb metal objects and Grapple metal creatures
and a –1 item penalty to Athletics checks to Shove metal
creatures. While repelling metal, you gain a +1 item bonus
to Athletics checks to Shove metal creatures, but you
take a –1 item penalty to Climb metal objects and Grapple
metal creatures.
Type magnetic suit; Level 4; Price 20 gp
Type greater magnetic suit; Level 10; Price 200 gp
The area that gains an AC bonus when attracting is a
10-foot emanation, and the item bonuses and penalties
increase from 1 to 2.
Type major magnetic suit; Level 16; Price 2,000 gp
The area that gains an AC bonus when attracting is a
20-foot emanation, and the item bonuses and penalties
increase from 1 to 3.
MATERIAL ESSENCE DISRUPTOR
ITEM 3+
UNCOMMON
CONSUMABLE
GADGET
Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk 1
Activate [two-actions] Interact
A material essence disruptor emits bursts of disordered
energy to break down the structure of a spell that
manipulates material essence. Attempt to counteract an
active arcane or primal spell within the listed range, with the
listed counteract modifier and counteract level.
Type lesser; Level 3; Price 60 gp
The range is 30 feet, the counteract modifier is +7, and the
counteract level is 2.
Type moderate; Level 7; Price 360 gp
The range is 40 feet, the counteract modifier is +13, and the
counteract level is 4.
Type greater; Level 11; Price 1,400 gp
The range is 60 feet, the counteract modifier is +18, and the
counteract level is 6.
Type major; Level 15; Price 6,500 gp
The range is 90 feet, the counteract modifier is +24, and the
counteract level is 8.
SMOKE FAN
ITEM 2+
UNCOMMON
CONSUMABLE
GADGET
Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk L
Activate [one-action] Interact
When you Activate a smoke fan, it creates a cloud of colored
smoke. The smoke fills a 5-foot radius. The creator chooses
the smoke’s color when creating the smoke fan. Creatures
within the smoke’s area are concealed, and all other creatures
are concealed to them. The smoke lasts for 1 minute or until
dissipated by a strong wind.
Type smoke fan; Level 2; Price 5 gp
Type greater smoke fan; Level 8; Price 75 gp
The smoke’s radius is 20 feet, and the creator can choose for
the smoke to be a mixture of colors.
WIND-UP CART
ITEM 2
UNCOMMON
CLOCKWORK
CONSUMABLE
GADGET
Price 6 gp
Usage held in 2 hands; Bulk 2
Activate [one-action] Interact
This primitive device can be cobbled together from springs,
wheels, and scrap and is commonly used to carry rocks or
other dead weight forward to trigger traps. It can be loaded
with up to 4 Bulk of items. Most creatures aren’t small
enough to fit on the cart, and even for Tiny creatures, it
makes for a choppy ride; while riding the cart, a creature
gains two actions at the start of each of its turns, instead
of three. Once activated, the cart moves forward at a speed
of 30 feet per round on your turn for up to 1 minute. If it
strikes an obstruction, it attempts to continue its movement,
pushing with an Athletics bonus of +5, once per round. The
wind-up cart has AC 15, Hardness 2, 24 Hit Points, and a
Break Threshold of 12. After its 1-minute duration completes,
the cart collapses back into scrap.
7171
