Introduction
Gears
Characters
Gears
Equipment
Guns
Characters
Guns
Equipment
The Rotating
Gear
Glossary
And Index
Guns &
GEARS
is a +1 weapon. It’s a distinct type of martial firearm that
deals 1d10 damage with a range increment of 150 feet and
reload 1. It deals acid, cold, electricity, fire, or poison damage,
depending on the drake from which it was made. On a critical
hit, the spittle clings to the target and they take persistent
damage of the same type as the weapon equal to 1d4 + the
number of weapon damage dice. A drake rifle does not add
critical specialization effects.
Activate [three-actions] Interact (evocation, magical); Frequency
once per day; Effect You fire a large, specialized burst
designed to hamper your foes. Make a ranged Strike
with the drake rifle. As long as the Strike isn’t a critical
failure, the drake rifle deals 1 splash damage per weapon
damage die to the target and creatures within 5 feet of
the target. This splash damage is of the same type as its
normal damage.
On a hit, the drake rifle provides one of the following
additional effects based on its damage type:
•	 Acid Clinging acid makes it painful and sickening to
move. The target becomes sickened 1.
•	 Cold Frozen spittle clings to the target. The target takes
a –10-foot status penalty to their Speeds for 1 minute.
•	 Electricity
Small
bursts
of
electricity continue to
spark and jolt the target.
The
target
becomes
dazzled and flat-footed
for 1d4 rounds.
•	 Fire
A
massive
explosion
knocks
the target back. The target is pushed 10 feet away from
you, and if it’s on the ground, it falls prone.
•	 Poison Noxious vapors fill the target’s lungs. The target
becomes enfeebled 1 and clumsy 1 for 1 minute.
Craft Requirements The initial raw materials must include
the saliva glands of a ritually hunted drake with a breath
weapon that deals the appropriate damage type for the
drake rifle.
GROWTH GUN
ITEM 9
UNCOMMON
MAGICAL
TRANSMUTATION
Price 700 gp
Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk 2
A growth gun is a +1 striking hand cannon made from the
regenerative flesh of a hydra, troll, or other similar creature. It
has an attached flesh sac that slowly replenishes one shot each
round and can be loaded like a normal round of ammunition. It
fires regenerating gobbets of flesh, bone, or teeth, determined
by the damage type selected for its modular trait. A growth
gun can be fired underwater, though it’s still limited by the
selected damage type as normal.
Activate [two-actions] Interact (magical, transmutation); Frequency once
per minute; Effect Make a ranged Strike. On a hit, the creature
becomes covered in a mass of flesh that continues to grow on
the target for a brief time. The creature becomes slowed 1 for
1 round, after which the growth withers and falls off.
Craft Requirements The initial raw materials must include the
flesh of a creature with regeneration.
PETRIFICATION CANNON
ITEM 15
UNCOMMON
MAGICAL
TRANSMUTATION
Price 6,500 gp
Usage held in 2 hands; Bulk 2
Built from the taxidermic body of a basilisk, a petrification
cannon functions as a +2 greater striking double-barreled
musket. A petrification cannon can be activated to fire a beam
of energy that transforms flesh into stone.
Activate [two-actions] Interact (magical, transmutation); Frequency
once per hour Effect A beam of coiling energy leaps from
the petrification cannon at a target within 60 feet. The
target must attempt a Fortitude save against DC 34 with
the effects of flesh to stone.
Craft Requirements The initial raw materials must include the
body of a basilisk.
SCREECH SHOOTER
ITEM 9+
UNCOMMON
EVOCATION
MAGICAL
Usage held in 2 hands; Bulk 2
Built from the larynx of an owlbear, terror shrike,
or similar animal that
possesses a frightening
screech or similar special
ability, a screech shooter is a special +1
striking harmona gun designed to fire terrifying
blasts of sound. A screech shooter deals sonic
damage but can otherwise be used like a normal harmona gun.
Activate [two-actions] Interact (emotion, enchantment, fear, magical,
mental); Frequency once per hour Effect The screech shooter
unleashes a frightening wail. All creatures in a 30-foot
emanation from you must attempt a DC 25 Will save.
Critical Success The creature is unaffected.
Success The creature is frightened 1.
Failure The creature is frightened 2.
Critical Failure The creature is frightened 3 and fleeing for
1 round.
Type screech shooter; Level 9; Price 700 gp
Type greater screech shooter; Level 13; Price 3,000 gp
A greater screech shooter is a +2 greater striking harmona
gun. The DC for the activation is 30 and it affects creatures in
a 40-foot emanation.
Type major screech shooter; Level 17; Price 15,000 gp
The DC for the activation is 37 and it affects creatures in a
50-foot emanation.
Craft Requirements The initial raw materials must include the
larynx of a creature with a frightening screech.
SPIDER GUN
ITEM 6+
UNCOMMON
EVOCATION
MAGICAL
Usage held in 2 hands; Bulk 2
A spider gun is a +1 striking weapon. It’s a distinct type
of martial firearm made from the fangs and spinneret of
a Large spider. It deals 1d10 poison damage with a range
155
155
 Petrification Cannon
