Introduction
Gears
Characters
Gears
Equipment
Guns
Characters
Guns
Equipment
The Rotating
Gear
Glossary
And Index
Guns &
GEARS
Goldhand Lodge
The Goldhand Lodge is a mercantile alliance that aims
to ensure the prosperity of Dongun Hold and its citizens
through commerce. Its members encourage the sale of
goods and services, from gold, metalwork, and firearms,
to contract mining, construction, and mercenary work.
During the dwarves’ long exile in the Darklands, the
Goldhand Lodge dwindled in importance. Under the
reign of High King Arunak, Dongun Hold reopened,
brokered an alliance with Alkenstar, and licensed the
right to create dwarven firearms to the Gunworks—all
measures which greatly empowered the Lodge.
In all ways, the Goldhand Lodge seeks to increase profits
for both their members and Dongun Hold as a whole.
They buck tradition, push boundaries, and embrace the
new—as long as it’s profitable. Their most influential
members negotiate trade agreements with Alkenstar and
other foreign nations, even including overtures to Nex
and Geb. As many dwarves still consider the citizens of
Nex and Geb their enemies, these maneuvers have earned
it little support among the dwarven populace. In hopes of
finding a profitable compromise, the Goldhand Lodge is
working to establish trading houses within Nex and Geb,
which would allow it to sell dwarven products far afield,
without dwarven crafters ever having to personally deal
with distasteful foreigners.
Since the creation of the Gunworks, High King
Arunak has tightly controlled the number of firearms it
produces, to ensure only a limited number are released
yearly. While many dwarves lauded this move as
practical, as it ensures dwarven firearms sell for high
prices and fewer enemies acquire them—members of
the Goldhand Lodge has long opposed the maneuver,
citing it as a hindrance that prevents dwarven goods
from reaching eager markets. They fear others will soon
create their own firearms and the need for weapons
from the Gunworks will dwindle. The Lodge urges High
King Arunak to vastly increase production quotas at the
Gunworks and allow dwarven gunsmiths to sell their
firearms direct to customers—with the aid of its brokers.
Until approval for such laws occurs, some members of
the Lodge turn to smuggling and other underhanded
tactics to ensure that dwarven goods and firearms reach
the open market and wealth flows into dwarven coffers.
Members of the Goldhand Lodge remain on the
lookout for innovative crafters in need of mercantile
connections.
They
regularly
hire
silver-tongued
negotiators, experienced mercenaries, and scoundrels
that aren’t afraid to bend the rules. On the third Fireday
of every month, they open their Dongun Hold and
Alkenstar offices to ambitious inventors, entrepreneurs,
and expedition leaders, inviting them to show off their
creations, businesses, and expedition plans. There they
purchase promising ideas outright, or offer investment
funding in exchange for partial ownership or control and
a hefty share of profits.
Sparkforge Collective
From humble beginnings, the Sparkforge Collective
rose to become one of the most influential—and
controversial—organizations
in
Dongun
Hold.
Originally a gathering of six dwarven crafters that
experimented with black powder, the Sparkforge
Collective now consists of hundreds of inventors and
gunsmiths, nearly a thousand sharpshooters, gunslingers,
and demolitionists, and countless dwarven citizens.
Regardless of role or station, members of the Sparkforge
Collective believe the future of Dongun Hold and the
survival of its people lies in the use of black powder.
The Collective’s founding members discovered how to
create, utilize, and weaponize black powder, creating
explosives, firearms, and other tools.
In the generations since its founding, the Sparkforge
Collective has grown by leaps and bounds, though its
goals remain consistent: develop new black powder
innovations and improve existing black powder
technologies and crafting methods. By embracing
these goals, members of the Sparkforge Collective
continually strive to not only create new firearms,
tools, and explosives for a wide range of specialties and
applications, but also improve the safety and reliability
of existing black powder devices and crafting methods.
Once a minor group of eccentric outsiders, the
Sparkforge Collective has expanded throughout Dongun
Hold and today, most dwarves support the Collective’s
actions and perceive the wisdom in the use of firearms.
Crafters and warriors associated with the Sparkforge
Collective remain well-respected throughout the Hold,
and those known to create, test, and utilize the newest
experimental creations and prototypes are celebrated as
heroes, for such work is incredibly dangerous. The practical
and stoic warriors that test devices, tools, and weapons
for the Sparkforge Collective must possess a steady hand
and extreme focus to ensure they minimize misfires and
other accidents. In contrast, inventors and experimental
gunsmiths typically have frazzled and scorched hair and
beards, and pock-marked skin that has endured numerous
explosions and fires. While some would consider these
qualities the signs of a poorly skilled smith, among the
Sparkforge Collective they serve as badges of bravery,
ingenuity, and honor.
The Sparkforge Collective has long been opposed by
the Keepers of the Skyflame and is often the target of
the Keepers’ ire. For their part, most members of the
Sparkforge Collective consider the Keepers so mired in
the past that they remain ignorant of true progress. The
Collective enjoys the support of High King Arunak and
the Goldhand Lodge, although the Collective and the
Lodge don’t always agree, as members of the Sparkforge
Collective often focus more on innovation and progress
than profit. The Sparkforge Collective is always looking
for smiths, alchemists, and inventors to join their ranks
and reliable warriors to test their creations in the field.
193
193
