A sunken pistol is imbued with the unfulfilled desires and
insatiable greed of its previous wielder, a notorious pirate
drowned at sea. Once a beautiful and artistically wrought
weapon, a sunken pistol is coated in a fine layer of dried salt
and encrusted with barnacles. Each shot fired from this +1
striking dragon mouth pistol is now coated in a layer of salty
ectoplasm and has the effects of a ghost touch rune. You can
shoot the sunken pistol underwater, even when using black
powder ammunition.
A sunken pistol urges you to amass a horde of treasure
even a dragon would be proud of. The methods used to
acquire these riches matter not to the greedy pirate pistol,
so long as you amass and hoard excessive wealth. Above all
else, a sunken pistol desires the return of its own treasure,
which might rest in the wreck of its sunken ship’s hold or be
hidden on a dangerous island.
In pursuit of treasure, a sunken pistol offers nautical and
navigation advice to you, though it refuses such aid during
less lucrative ventures. If you prove a profitable partner,
the sunken pistol aids you in combat by Demoralizing your
opponents (see the first Activation below). If you prove
charitable or unwilling to retrieve its treasure, the sunken
pistol turns its ire on you, Demoralizing you during combat
until you relent. If you repeatedly refuse the sunken pistol,
it would be wise to not accept water breathing from it, as it
might attempt to drown you to allow a more suitable wielder
to acquire it from your corpse. The sunken pistol can use the
following activations.
Activate [one-action] command; Frequency once per minute; Effect
The sunken pistol curses and insults a creature it can
see, attempting an Intimidation check to Demoralize that
creature.
Activate [three-actions] command; Frequency once per day; Effect The
sunken pistol casts water breathing on you as a 3rd-level
arcane spell. The sunken pistol can Dismiss this spell, so
be sure to keep the gun happy if you’re relying on its good
graces to breathe!
OTHER RARE AND UNIQUE MAGICAL FIREARMS
HYLDARF’S FANG
ITEM 15
UNIQUE
EVOCATION
FIRE
MAGICAL
POISON
Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk 1
This +2 greater striking hand cannon is carved and crafted
from a single large fang, worn with age and cracked with
red lines. The tip of the fang has been filed down, but still
leaks black fluid occasionally. It was fashioned from the
tooth of the tor linnorm Hyldarf by a half-Ulfen gunsmith
164
164
