Introduction
Gears
Characters
Gears
Equipment
Guns
Characters
Guns
Equipment
The Rotating
Gear
Glossary
And Index
Guns &
GEARS
weapon or unarmed attack. This Strike uses the same multiple
attack penalty as the Strike that failed on the last action.
Afterward, increase your multiple attack penalty normally.
Greater Deed
15th
DRIFTER’S WAKE [three-actions]
GUNSLINGER
You drift across the battlefield, striking down foes as you
go. You Stride, and you can Strike up to three times at any
points during your movement. Each attack must target a
different enemy and must be made with a one-handed firearm,
crossbow, melee weapon, or unarmed attack. Each attack
counts toward your multiple attack penalty, but your multiple
attack penalty doesn’t increase until you’ve made all your
attacks. Your movement doesn’t trigger reactions.
WAY OF THE PISTOLERO
Whether you’re a professional duelist or a pistol-twirling
entertainer, you have quick feet and quicker hands that
never seem to let you down, and an equally sharp wit and
tongue that jab your foes. You might leave a hand free or
cultivate the ambidexterity for twin weapons. Either way,
you stay close enough to your enemies to leverage your
superior reflexes while leaving enough space to safely fire.
Slinger’s Reload Raconteur’s Reload
Deeds Initial Ten Paces; Advanced Pistolero’s Retort; Greater
Grim Swagger
Way Skill choose Deception or Intimidation
Slinger’s Reload
RACONTEUR’S RELOAD [one-action]
GUNSLINGER
Your rapid or forceful words draw the enemy’s attention away
from your hands long enough to chamber another bullet.
Interact to reload and then attempt a Deception check to
Create a Diversion or an Intimidation check to Demoralize.
Initial Deed
TEN PACES [free-action]
GUNSLINGER
Trigger You roll initiative.
You react to trouble with lightning speed, positioning yourself
just right. You gain a +2 circumstance bonus to your initiative
roll, and you can Interact to draw a one-handed firearm or
one‑handed crossbow. As your first action on your first turn,
you can Step up to 10 feet as a free action.
Advanced Deed
9th
PISTOLERO’S RETORT [reaction]
GUNSLINGER
Requirements You’re wielding a one-handed firearm or
one-handed crossbow.
Trigger A foe within the first range increment of the one-
handed firearm or one-handed crossbow you’re wielding
critically fails an attack roll against you.
You punish your foe’s failure with a shot. Make a Strike
against the triggering foe with a one-handed firearm or
one‑handed crossbow.
Greater Deed
15th
GRIM SWAGGER [two-actions]
AUDITORY
EMOTION
FEAR
GUNSLINGER
MENTAL
LINGUISTIC
Requirements You have a one-handed firearm or one-handed
crossbow visibly worn or wielded.
You attempt to clear the room by promising a grim fate to
anyone who doesn’t do what you say, and quickly. Attempt a
Deception or Intimidation check against the Will DCs of each
creature within 30 feet, except for your allies. Regardless
of whether you succeed or fail, each subject is temporarily
immune to your Grim Swagger for 10 minutes.
For example, if you attempt a Deception check, you lie
and boast about your prowess or the large group of friends
on their way to back you up. If you attempt an Intimidation
check, you promise everyone in the room that you’re going to
be the last thing they see.
Critical Success The creature becomes frightened 3. If it’s
lower level than you, it’s also fleeing for 1 round.
Success The creature becomes frightened 2.
WAY OF THE SNIPER
You practice a style of shooting that relies on unerring
accuracy and perfect placement of your first shot. You
keep hidden or at a distance, staying out of the fray and
bringing unseen death to your foes.
Slinger’s Reload Covered Reload
Deeds Initial One Shot, One Kill; Advanced Vital Shot; Greater
Ghost Shot
Way Skill Stealth
Slinger’s Reload
COVERED RELOAD [one-action]
GUNSLINGER
You duck into a safe position or minimize your profile while
reloading to make your next attack. Either Take Cover or
attempt to Hide, then Interact to reload. As normal, you must
meet the requirements to Take Cover or Hide; you must be
INTERACTING TO RELOAD
The slinger’s reload action from each gunslinger way, as
well as many feats, give the ability to Interact to reload
a weapon. This is enough to reload a weapon that takes
1 Interact action to reload, but only provides one of the
Interact actions needed to reload a weapon with reload
2 or greater. As normal, you can provide the remaining
Interact actions separately.
109
109
