Introduction
Gears
Characters
Gears
Equipment
Guns
Characters
Guns
Equipment
The Rotating
Gear
Glossary
And Index
Guns &
GEARS
relatively contained over the millennia. These same
barriers to travel have also sheltered Arcadia from
many of the worst catastrophes to wrack other parts
of Golarion, so the continent’s gunsmithing techniques
and traditions have grown more slowly and along
more focused paths tied to ritual hunts and ceremonial
weapons forged from skymetals and magic.
One of the most significant innovations in technological
firearms to come from Arcadia, though it has fallen into
relative obscurity on the continent in modern days, was
the development of air guns: lower-impact firearms
fired using compressed air stored in specially crafted
cartridges. Sealed with a wax stopper that is punctured
and resealed by the gun’s firing mechanism, these
relatively lightweight and efficient containers could
be combined with cartridges containing metal balls or
darts. Due to their inexpensive nature and ease of use,
they were a staple of Arcadian hunters for many years,
until the techniques to create beast guns and imitation
star guns became more affordable to those who admired
and desired these weapons for themselves.
Compared to black powder firearms, air weapons
are far less volatile and don’t have any problems with
water, but their destructive potential is also much lower.
Black powder firearms, however, are virtually unknown
in Arcadia. Beast guns and new magical guns patterned
after the ancient star guns are powerful and effective,
lessening any desire for black powder weapons, and the
barriers to trade cut both ways.
Beast guns were the earliest firearms created in Arcadian
history, first invented well over 10,000 years ago. Star
guns, too, predated Earthfall, created by a mysterious
and isolated group called the Crowned Regents. These
in turn inspired air guns, as well as imitation star guns
created with skymetals scattered across the continent by
Earthfall. Though limited trade exists between Arcadia
and Tian Xia, it’s unlikely that Tian Xia’s weaponry took
any cues from Arcadian firearms; hand cannons and
fire lances are distinct from Arcadian weaponry, with
similarities between the weapon designs and innovations
of the two continents only appearing long after their
respective gunsmithing traditions were well established.
ADVENT OF BLACK POWDER
For the rest of Golarion outside Arcadia, black powder
preceded firearms, and was first discovered by alchemists
in Tian Xia, perhaps as a secret negotiated from a
dragon’s hoard if the legends are to be believed. As
fireworks, rockets, hand cannons, fire lances, hwachas,
and other black powder innovations became known in
various cities across the continent, an interest in trade
arose, most prominently from Tian Xia’s neighboring
western continent of Casmaron and the Impossible
Kingdoms of Vudra.
The Dragon Empire of Lung Wa was in ascendance
across much of Tian Xia, however, and had a
near-monopoly on black powder technology. The
empire was cautious of other continents in general
and was thus understandably hesitant to provide these
secrets beyond their borders, where they could get
into the hands of potential enemies and increase their
future military might. However, Vudran negotiators
were enthusiastic and persuasive, offering ever-more-
enticing gifts and wonders, and at last Lung Wa
acquiesced, gifting a significant amount of black powder
to their Vudran neighbors, along with a formula to
make more. However, a secret that the Vudrans never
learned, even many centuries later, was that their Tian
trading partners traded them a watered-down version
of the black powder formula—much more stable but
also less powerful and, therefore, less threatening to
their hegemony.
There’s no indication that black powder technology
ever reached Arcadia through their limited trade
interactions with Tian Xia. Unlike the Vudran
negotiators who wanted to learn the formula at any
cost, it’s likely that Arcadian traders would’ve seen
little value in obtaining a technology clearly more
volatile and unreliable than their own.
For many years, the black powder trade was
primarily locked between Tian Xia and Casmaron.
Vudra, on the other hand, found many innovative uses
for the modified black powder formula they received,
which turned out to be much more stable than the
original. This in turn allowed them to trade farther
and wider than Tian merchants were allowed, and
without fear of their wagons or ships exploding. This
ultimately facilitated Vudran trade in both directions
and, most notably, introduced the Vudran formula for
black powder to the continent of Garund.
DONGUN HOLD AND THE FORMATION OF INDUSTRY
Before sealing their gates for what they believed would
be the final time to defend against a war between
archwizards that threatened their very existence, the
dwarves of Dongun Hold made a critical trade with
their Kulenett cousins. Kulenett dwarves had obtained
several casks of black powder from Vudrani traders
and brought it to the Hold, using a combination of
underground and overland routes to safely navigate
the war spreading across the regions. Surprisingly, the
Kulenett dwarves had no idea that their cousin nation
would ultimately turn these casks into the foundation
CHAPTER MAP
The following new options appear in this chapter.
Classic Firearms
Page 150
Fantasy Firearms
Page 154
Ammunition
Page 168
Black Powder Siege Weapons
Page 172
Tools and Accessories
Page 178
147
147
