While most backgrounds are available to any character,
some backgrounds are so unusual that just having them
makes a character rare and extraordinary.
These rare backgrounds can give a player a
significantly different roleplaying experience by setting
their character up with a history or legacy beyond
the norm. For example, when a character with the
discarded duplicate background is the duplicate of a
world-shaking or plot-essential NPC, the character is
situated in a special position within the narrative. Your
character’s background is an intrinsic part of where
they come from and not something they earn during
the game. Rare backgrounds should be chosen only
after a discussion between the GM and other players as
to whether one would apply for a particular character
in your group’s game.
DISCARDED DUPLICATE
RARE
Someone created you for a specific purpose. Some important
person, be they a storied royal, a contentious politician, or
a stark military leader, needed a body double for their most
dangerous appearances. Using a mixture of fringe science and
magic, you were commissioned and trained to emulate this
person in every way, and have stood in for them in countless
deadly circumstances. You may or may not know the reason
behind your decommissioning, but whoever discarded you
didn’t finish you off. Now, the world is yours to explore—but
“you” may have a bold or brutish reputation, or the individual
you were duplicating may be long dead. Regardless of the fate
of this individual, your way of life has changed drastically.
You and the GM can work out how to incorporate your
previous life into your story. The GM can keep this knowledge
hidden even from you, or you or another character know what
happened. You and the GM can also leave the information
unspecified and fill it in later.
You gain three free ability boosts. You choose two, and the
GM chooses one based on the attributes of the character you
were built to duplicate.
MECHANICAL SYMBIOSIS
RARE
Whether you purposefully took it on or had it thrust upon
you, a bronze, clockwork object latched onto some part of
RARE BACKGROUNDS
46
46
