Introduction
Gears
Characters
Gears
Equipment
Guns
Characters
Guns
Equipment
The Rotating
Gear
Glossary
And Index
Guns &
GEARS
SAMPLE GUNSLINGER
SPELLSHOT
You use a little bit of a magic and
a whole lot of firepower to make
your mark on the world.
ABILITY SCORES
Prioritize Dexterity first, followed
by Intelligence.
SKILLS
Acrobatics, Arcana, Occultism,
Society, Stealth
WAY
Spellshot
FEATS
Munitions Crafter (1st), Spellshot
Dedication (2nd), Alchemical Shot
(4th), Fulminating Shot (6th)
Conjure Bullet [one-action] (conjuration, magical) Frequency once per round; Effect You
conjure an ordinary level-0 bolt or bullet out of thin air and then immediately
Interact to load it into your weapon. If the bolt or bullet isn’t fired before the end
of your turn, the effect is wasted.
Special You can’t select another dedication feat other than Beast Gunner
Dedication until you’ve gained two other feats from the spellshot or beast
gunner archetypes.
FULMINATING SHOT [one-action]
FEAT 6
ARCHETYPE
EVOCATION
MAGICAL
Frequency once per round.
Prerequisites Spellshot Dedication
You channel potent magic into your next shot, empowering it with a blast of crackling
energy. Choose acid, cold, electricity, or fire. If you hit with your next attack roll using
a firearm or crossbow before the end of your turn, you deal 1d6 additional damage of
this type. At 12th level, this increases to 2d6 additional damage, and at 18th level, it
increases to 3d6 additional damage.
CALL GUN
FEAT 8
ARCHETYPE
CONJURATION
MAGICAL
TELEPORTATION
Prerequisites Spellshot Dedication
You build a powerful magical connection with a chosen gun or crossbow, gaining
the ability to conjure it directly to your hand from any distant location. During
your daily preparations, choose a single crossbow or firearm. Until your next daily
preparations, you can use the Call Gun action to call the
gun to your hand.
Call Gun [one-action] (conjuration, magical) Effect You hold aloft a
free hand and call the firearm or crossbow you chose during
your daily preparations into your hand. As long as the weapon you
chose is on the same plane, it appears in your hand.
PHASE BULLET [one-action]
FEAT 14
ARCHETYPE
CONJURATION
MAGICAL
Prerequisites Spellshot Dedication
Frequency once per day
You can aim your bullets not just in three normal dimensions, but in additional
dimensions as well, allowing you to fire a magical shot that phases through
everything but your target. Make a crossbow or firearm Strike against a foe
who’s observed or hidden to you (but not undetected). The ammunition travels
to your target in a straight line, passing through any non‑magical barriers
or walls in its way, though magical barriers and force effects stop the
bullet. The shot ignores all cover, the concealed condition, the hidden
condition, and circumstance bonuses to AC from shields. It has a
+4 status bonus to hit creatures wearing any type of armor. The
Strike’s damage can’t be reduced with a Shield Block reaction using
a non‑magical shield.
BLACK POWDER EMBODIMENT [two-actions]
FEAT 18
ARCHETYPE
CONJURATION
TELEPORTATION
Prerequisites Spellshot Dedication, master in Arcana
Requirements You’re wielding a loaded magical firearm or crossbow.
You infuse your entire being into a single shot, merging your body into the
blast and enabling you to travel the same path as your bolt or bullet. Strike
a creature with the required weapon. On a success, if the target was within
120 feet, you and all your gear are teleported to an open space of your choice
within 10 feet of the target.
141
141
