After using a holy steam ball, you must refill it before the
next use in a process that takes five minutes to complete.
Activate [one-action] Interact; Requirements The holy steam ball is filled
with evaporated holy water and incense smoke; Effect You
release the stored steam and smoke to grant yourself its
protections. Each use of the holy steam ball lasts for 1 hour
and gives you a +2 item bonus to Will saving throws against
possession effects from fiends and undead and effects from
fiends and undead that cause the controlled condition.
IGNITOR
ITEM 1
CLOCKWORK
Price 5 gp
Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk -
An ignitor uses interlocking clockwork to create a small
spark in order to ignite flammable materials. While holding
the ignitor, you can Interact with it to ignite a flammable
object within reach.
LIGHT WRITER
ITEM 6
RARE
CLOCKWORK
EVOCATION
LIGHT
Bulk 2
Price 200 gp; 3 gp for 10 metal plates
The light writer is a cutting edge invention,
first created in Absalom in late 4721,
combining magic and clockwork
innovation to allow its operator to
create a true-to-life, monochromatic
portrait of people or a scene over the
course of 20 minutes of exposure.
It consists of two flat metal squares,
one larger than the other, connected
by a tube of leather similar to that found
on a bellows. The smaller square, which sits at the front of
the device, has a small glass lens in the center of it. The
larger square contains a specially treated metallic plate on
the inside; its exterior also has both a small control stick
connected via flexible wire, and a small metal tube attached
to the top and pointing forward. The user presses a button on
the control stick to activate the light writer. Upon activation,
magical light illuminates the tube, producing a steady
light for 20 minutes. This light is captured by the lens and
projected onto the metal plate, slowly creating an image of
the scene in front of the lens. The plate can then be removed,
allowing the image to be displayed anywhere the owner
desires. The light writer is mounted on a tripod and must be
perfectly still during operation to prevent any defects from
appearing in the plate image. If creating a captured image
of a living creature, it is equally important for that creature
to remain still throughout the process, to avoid a ghostlike
blurring of the final image.
MECHANICAL TORCH
ITEM 1
CLOCKWORK
Price 10 gp
Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk L
Powered by electricity, you can turn a mechanical torch on
and off by toggling a lever on the torch with an Interact
action. When active, the torch sheds bright light in either
a 20-foot radius (and dim light to the next 40 feet) or a
40‑foot cone (and dim light to the next 40 feet). Changing
this area requires a single Interact action to flip a switch. The
torch carries sufficient charge to operate for ten minutes.
You can recharge the torch in 1 minute via an integrated
crank-charging mechanism, turning the clockwork gears
and generating sparks to power the torch, though doing so
requires two hands.
NIGHTBREEZE MACHINE
ITEM 5
UNCOMMON
AIR
CLOCKWORK
Bulk 4
Price 125 gp
The nightbreeze machine can turn a scorching hot room into
a comfortable one with just the pull of a lever. Its outer shell
is a brass cube half as tall as the average human
that houses a series of flat metal “blades” in
a circular arrangement. When placed on
a flat surface, a creature within reach can
Interact to flip the lever, turning the machine
on. When the machine is active, the blades
begin to spin rapidly, setting the air in
the room into motion, which cools off
the room’s inhabitants. A front-mounted
metal grate prevents anyone from coming
into accidental contact with the spinning
blades without impeding airflow.
The nightbreeze machine was recently
commissioned by Malduoni, Keeper of the
First Law, leader of the nation of Rahadoum.
He tasked the country’s brightest inventors with creating
devices that would, in his words, “Ensure that no mortal
need fear death from the desert heat.” This machine was the
first creation to come out of this consolidated engineering
effort, but it won’t be the last.
A nightbreeze machine can affect an enclosed area of
no more than 50 feet by 50 feet and has negligible effect
when used in a larger enclosed area or outside. While
active, it reduces the effects of severe heat by one step to
mild heat, and reduces extreme heat to severe heat (Core
Rulebook page 518). A nightbreeze machine isn’t powerful
enough to reduce the effects of incredible heat, though
fortunately such heat isn’t found naturally in the deserts
of Rahadoum. A nightbreeze machine runs for 8 hours,
after which it must be wound in a process that takes 10
minutes to complete. The 8 hours of activity don’t have to
be consecutive.
PAPER SHREDDER
ITEM 2
UNCOMMON
CLOCKWORK
Bulk 2
Price 30 gp
Whether it’s a parchment with ominous pentagrams and
88
88
Steamflight Pack
