Introduction
Gears
Characters
Gears
Equipment
Guns
Characters
Guns
Equipment
The Rotating
Gear
Glossary
And Index
Guns &
GEARS
launch yourself into the air. You jump up to 30 feet in any
direction without touching the ground. You must land on a
space of solid ground, or else you fall after using your next
action. As normal for effects where you fall after using your
next action, you still fall at the end of your turn, even if you
don’t use any further actions that turn.
Special If your innovation is a minion, it can take this action
rather than you.
HAPHAZARD REPAIR [one-action]
FEAT 1
INVENTOR
UNSTABLE
You quickly fix your innovation, at the cost of its stability. You
Repair your innovation almost immediately. You don’t have
to place the innovation on a flat surface, but you do need to
be adjacent to it (including holding or wearing it), as well as
having a repair kit as normal.
NO! NO! I CREATED YOU! [reaction]
FEAT 1
AUDITORY
CONCENTRATE
INVENTOR
Prerequisites construct companion
Frequency once per minute
Trigger Your construct companion would become confused or
controlled.
You appeal to your construct companion’s bond with its
creator to have it break free of a controlling effect. Attempt
to counteract the effect that confused or controlled your
construct companion, using your Crafting modifier for the
counteract check and half your level rounded up for the
counteract level.
PROTOTYPE COMPANION
FEAT 1
INVENTOR
You have created a construct companion, and while it might
not be an innovation, it serves as a trustworthy minion. You
gain a prototype construct companion (page 32).
TAMPER [one-action]
FEAT 1
INVENTOR
MANIPULATE
You tamper with a foe’s weapon or armor, using a free hand.
Choose either a weapon held by an enemy in your reach or
a suit of armor worn by an enemy in your reach. Attempt a
Crafting check against the enemy’s Reflex DC.
Critical Success Your tampering is incredibly effective.
If you tampered with a weapon, the enemy takes a –2
circumstance penalty to attack rolls and damage rolls
with that weapon. If you tampered with armor, the armor
hampers the enemy’s movement, making the enemy
flat‑footed and inflicting a –10-foot penalty to its Speeds.
The effect lasts until the enemy Interacts to remove it,
regardless of which one you used.
Success Your tampering is temporarily effective. As critical
success, but the effect ends at the start of your next turn,
even if the enemy doesn’t Interact to end it.
Critical Failure Your tampering backfires dramatically, creating
a small explosion from your own tools or gear. You take fire
damage equal to your level.
VARIABLE CORE
FEAT 1
INVENTOR
MODIFICATION
You adjust your innovation’s core, changing the way it
explodes. When you choose this feat, select acid, cold, or
electricity. Your innovation’s core runs on that power source.
When using the Explode action, or any time your innovation
explodes on a critical failure and damages you, change the
damage type from fire damage to the type you chose.
If you have the offensive boost class feature and retrain
Variable Core to a different damage type, you can also switch
to a different offensive boost that deals the same damage type
if you wish.
2ND LEVEL
COLLAPSE ARMOR [one-action]
FEAT 2
INVENTOR
MANIPULATE
MODIFICATION
Prerequisites armor innovation
Requirements You are wearing your armor innovation, or
holding it in both hands in its compact form (see text).
You’ve modified your armor innovation to collapse into a more
compact form so you can don or remove it in an instant. If
you’re wearing your innovation when you Collapse your
Armor, you remove it instantly, and it compresses into its
compact form, which is held in both of your hands (if you don’t
have both hands available, it falls to the ground in an adjacent
space). If you’re holding your armor in compact form when
you take this action, it unfolds back into its armor form onto
your body.
In compact form, your armor innovation is easier to carry,
with a Bulk 1 lower than the Bulk listed for it, to a minimum
of light Bulk (carried armor normally has a Bulk 1 higher than
listed in the armor entry).
COLLAPSE CONSTRUCT [one-action]
FEAT 2
INVENTOR
MANIPULATE
MODIFICATION
Prerequisites construct innovation
You’ve modified your construct companion and built it out
of light materials, enabling you to collapse it into a carrying
case or other compact and innocuous form. Either your
construct or you (if you’re adjacent to it) can Collapse your
Construct to turn it into its compact form or back into its
normal form.
In compact form, your construct can’t act but is easily
carried, with a Bulk of 2 if it’s Small, 4 if it’s Medium, or 8 if it’s
Large. The compact form has wheels, so you can easily drag
it behind you at half your Speed (rather than the usual slower
Speed for dragging).
REVERSE ENGINEER
FEAT 2
INVENTOR
Prerequisites expert in Crafting
You are incredibly skilled at reverse engineering items to
learn their formulas, or disassembling them just to disable
them. You gain a +2 circumstance bonus to Crafting checks
to reverse engineer a formula from an item. If you get a
25
25
