The Factory Fortress
A small fortress in and of itself, the massive factory in the
heart of Alkenstar known as the Gunworks is the center
of firearms manufacturing in the Inner Sea. Though
Alkenstar’s High Parliament regulate all production
of firearms with input from dwarves of Dongun Hold,
several independent manufacturing companies lease
space inside the Gunworks for their own purposes. While
production has doubled in the last several years, allowing
a large enough flow of firearms and siege weapons for
some minor targeted trading outside of Alkenstar’s walls,
the Gunworks’ boundless capacity still leaves significant
room for development and expansion. Mechanists toil in
myriad sublevels of the factory, plotting improvements
to the massive bombard known as the Maw of Rovagug,
experimenting with stronger mixtures of gunpowder, and
devising new types of firearms.
Each level of the Gunworks supports a specific
purpose, with deeper basements dug with the help of
Dongun Hold’s dwarven engineers as the need arises. The
level just below the surface is the master stockpile, where
the Gunworks stores produced firearms for emergency
use or special sale. Below that is the shrapnel field, where
they test each weapon against rigorous performance
standards. Deeper still are the production lines, which
house hundreds of workbenches for artisans to
construct individual components of a firearm
before a foreman assembles the weapon in a
separate room, to limit the chance of a rogue
worker leaving with full knowledge of the
product’s creation. The walled structure that
resides on top of the complex serves as a secure fortress,
allowing for the shipment of orders and monitoring of
the Gunworks as a whole.
This security has recently been put to the most
strenuous test since the Gorilla King robbed the
Gunworks in 4690 AR. The Keepers of the Skyflame
have long protested the decision of Anong Arunak to
give Ancil Alkenstar the secrets of forging firearms and
processing black powder. Tensions have grown over
the last century and beyond, with younger members of
the faction plotting to take a firm stand. In 4719 AR a
dozen Keepers posing as dwarven contractors from the
Hold, seized control of a bombard near the entrance to
the master stockpile and set a match to the vast supply.
The resulting explosion collapsed the exit points for all
workers below, leaving them trapped. High King Arunak
quickly dispatched workers to dig temporary tunnels
for an evacuation while the shieldmarshals responsible
for the city’s safety mounted a desperate and costly
attack on the insurgents. When the fighters defeated the
assailants and rescued the survivors, the casualties were
in the hundreds, including all but one of the Keepers. The
surviving assailant accepted full responsibility for the
attack, evading any connections that might implicate the
Keepers as a whole. The High Parliament is still working
with High King Arunak to find an agreeable resolution to
the incident and address concerns about future attacks.
Even without proof, many still suspect the members of
the Keepers of the Skyflame encouraged the attack. In the
interim, trusted Dongun Hold engineers have repaired
the Gunworks at no cost to Alkenstar and Dongun Hold
has supplemented security around the site with veterans
and retirees who have fulfilled their other obligations.
Smoke in the Streets
Despite being the main source of gunpowder weaponry
in the Inner Sea, firearms are not a universal tool among
the citizenry of the city-state. Pistols have become a
196
196
Shield Marshal
