Introduction
Gears
Characters
Gears
Equipment
Guns
Characters
Guns
Equipment
The Rotating
Gear
Glossary
And Index
Guns &
GEARS
TOPPLE GIANTS
FEAT 8
ARCHETYPE
Prerequisites Overwatch Dedication
When you observe an ally try and fail to execute a strategic
maneuver against your enemies, you coordinate with your
other allies to finish the job, using the opening from the
first attempt to keep your foe off-balance and ensure your
eventual success.
When an ally within your overwatch field attempts to
Disarm, Shove, or Trip an opponent within your overwatch field
and fails, you coordinate efforts to provide a +2 circumstance
bonus to the next Athletics check rolled by a different ally
to attempt the same action on the same target before that
target’s next turn.
WIDE OVERWATCH
FEAT 10
ARCHETYPE
Prerequisites Overwatch Dedication, master in Perception
Through a variety of perceptive techniques, careful routines,
and upgrades to your enhanced visual gear, you have
become able to observe and maintain your overwatch at a
much greater distance. Increase the size of your overwatch
field from 30 feet to 60 feet.
FOREWARN [reaction]
FEAT 12
ARCHETYPE
Prerequisites Overwatch Dedication, master in Perception
Frequency once per minute
Trigger An enemy within your overwatch field attempts an
attack against an ally who is also within your overwatch
field.
Your foresight and planning are more valuable than armor
as you direct your ally away from danger, but there’s a
limit to how often you can guide your allies away from a
foe’s relentless assaults. The triggering attack roll targets
your Perception DC instead of your ally’s AC. Though this
allows your ally to avoid taking penalties to their AC, it
doesn’t remove any conditions or other effects causing such
penalties. For example, an enemy with sneak attack would
still deal extra damage to your ally if they are flat-footed,
even though they wouldn’t take the –2 circumstance penalty
when defending against the attack.
MASTER SPOTTER
FEAT 12
ARCHETYPE
Prerequisites Overwatch Dedication, expert in Perception
Your incredible perception and trusty enhanced visual gear
allow you to see things others miss. Your proficiency rank in
Perception increases to master.
CONTROL TOWER
FEAT 14
ARCHETYPE
Prerequisites Overwatch Dedication, master in Perception
Your keen senses and ability to process battlefield
information have dramatically improved, allowing you to
drastically reduce the advantage of unseen foes. You and
allies in your overwatch field gain a +2 circumstance bonus
when using the Seek action to find hidden or undetected
creatures within the overwatch field. You and your allies
don’t have to succeed at a flat check to target a concealed
creature within your overwatch field. When you or an ally
targets a hidden creature in your overwatch field, reduce the
DC of the flat check to 5.
CONVERGE [reaction]
FEAT 16
ARCHETYPE
Prerequisites Overwatch Dedication, master in Perception
Trigger You make a successful ranged attack against an
opponent who is within your overwatch field, and who
is within reach of one or more of your allies who is also
within your overwatch field.
Informing your ally of an opening created by your shot, you
coordinate to set them up to hit the target at the same time.
Your ally can make a melee Strike against the triggering foe as
a reaction. This Strike doesn’t count toward that ally’s multiple
attack penalty, and their multiple attack penalty doesn’t apply
to this Strike. If your ally’s Strike is successful, combine the
damage from your successful ranged attack with the damage
from your ally’s melee attack for the purpose of determining
resistances and weaknesses.
OVERWATCH TRAINING
Not just anyone can train to become their party’s
overwatch. A keen and incisive perception is necessary,
of course, but that alone won’t be sufficient. While
many a ranger or rogue must sharpen their senses
or face a short career, a true overwatch must be able
to apply information received from all five senses
(and any additional special senses they might have)
to make split-second decisions that work toward
achieving a tactical goal. Such a response can partially
be trained through hours of daily drills designed to
help a potential overwatch separate true threats and
situations requiring their skills from false positives,
and even situations where they would cause a problem
if they didn’t hold back. However, while training helps
ingrain good practice into one’s reflexes and muscle
memory, ultimately, an overwatch candidate who lacks
an innate degree of good tactical instinct will find such
training slow to produce results, or in the worst case,
even impossible.
Beyond senses and instinct, the role of overwatch
requires the ability to innovate your enhanced visual gear
to assist in removing blind spots and seeing what others
miss. This is essential, since you must keep track of your
team and nearby foes. While it isn’t explicitly necessary
for you to be the one with enough skill in Crafting to
maintain and upgrade your enhanced visual gear, many
successful overwatches choose to do so in order to better
understand how every piece works together to create
the whole.
5151
