the pirate remains one of the few traders with access to
genuine Stasian items, his services are invaluable.
Inventors in Lepidstadt and elsewhere have also begun
attempting to reverse engineer Stasian items and produce
their own replicas and iterations. Many of these pieces,
particularly early ones created before the foundational
principles were even remotely understood, are unstable
and highly dangerous. Nevertheless, they remain both
jealously guarded and extraordinarily difficult to
obtain, as many of these inventors worry that a clever
and resourceful student might be able to examine and
produce their own versions in turn.
SPIRIT SONGS AND SPECTRAL AURAS
Among the first Ustalavic inventions based upon the
new technology were etheric spirit-singers, comprised
of two long, perpendicular metal rods jutting from a
rune-scribed box containing at least one Stasian coil.
Each spirit-singer’s properties vary slightly, depending
on the metals used in its crafting, the dimensions of its
rods, the sigils and materials of its containment box, and
other factors. However, all function according to the
same basic principles: they sense disturbances of ethereal
energies between the two rods, and they emit an eerie,
spectral warbling in response. The pitch and volume of
the spirit-singer’s song varies according to the position of
the disturbance, permitting the user to play the device as
a musical instrument via etheric manipulation.
The discovery that etheric spirit-singers could sense
and respond to incorporeal spiritual essence, including
ghosts and haunts, stirred considerable excitement
in Ustalav. Spirit-singers have been installed as alarm
systems meant to detect spectral intruders, particularly
in defensive fortifications and surveillance sites near the
Gravelands. They have also been adopted by traveling
exorcists who sweep them about the sites of purported
hauntings to determine whether a spirit is present, and
whether it has been successfully dispelled. Frauds run
rampant, since genuine spirit-singers are extraordinarily
expensive and delicate, and a simple auditory illusion can
mimic the effect.
Perhaps the most popular use for etheric spirit-singers,
however, is in melodic séances. In these performances,
commissioned by Ustalavic nobility at great expense,
an ancestor’s ghost or other spirit is invited to visit the
audience and communicate through a spirit-singer. Other
musicians, illusionists, or magicians may accompany the
performance, or an “interpreter of song” may translate
the spirit-singer’s eerie sounds into words.
Recently, a new variation has begun to surface—etheric
spirit-catchers, which use the same base technology but
convert the etheric disturbances to visual impressions
rather than sound. Disturbing rumors have already arisen
around these devices. It is rumored that their images
have the potential to leave troubling and persistent
effects on viewers’ minds, far more pernicious than the
unsettling but innocuous music of spirit-singers. Some
say that spirit-catchers do not merely catch hallucinatory
images, but the actual spirits themselves—to grim, even
nightmarish effect.
ZEFIRENDI’S LACE
In a cold and unlit workshop perched high over a
derelict tenement in Caliphas, the Garundi inventor
and astrologer Zefirendi has built a remarkable loom
powered by clockworks and guided by the movements
of a precision-built orrery. She spends many nights on the
workshop’s roof, studying the heavens through a powerful
telescope and adjusting her model. As the orrery’s celestial
bodies move through their arcs, they change the filaments
of the ornate lace being woven on the looms. No living
hand touches the threads or their looms, so the lace is the
creation of pure mechanical science, and the reflection of
the mysteries among the stars.
Zefirendi has been spinning, and perfecting, her
lace for years. It is nearly finished, and the astrologer’s
excitement—and dread—is near its peak. She began the
project to test a hypothesis that there was some message
hidden in the movement of stars and planets through the
infinite black of night. As the weaving went on, however,
Zefirendi became increasingly convinced that it was the
Dark Tapestry itself that spoke through her orrery. Now,
with her lace almost complete, she is certain that this is
so, and that she will soon be able to read the mystery of
the heavens recorded by her machines.
THE SILVERLENS SNIPER
Among the earliest adopters of Ustalav’s new technologies
is a secretive, mercenary assassin known only as the
Silverlens Sniper. She wears a gray velvet cloak and
matching gloves tipped with mother-of-pearl claws, and
her face hides behind oversized moonstone lenses that
glow an opalescent blue. Though every rumor tells a
different story of her weapon’s appearance, it’s clear that
she uses some kind of arquebus mixing a combination of
magic and Stasian technology.
The magical and technological marvel of her arquebus
and her preternatural accuracy are what makes the
Silverlens Sniper so terrifying; she can kill her victims
from afar, often without anyone knowing she was there
in the first place. The Sniper’s confidence in her skills is so
legendary that it’s rumored she sets out five bullets at the
beginning of each job. If her target survives all five shots,
the Sniper ends her hunt and refunds the contract.
The Silverlens Sniper’s most famous quirk is that she
refuses to kill human targets. She will fearlessly accept
contracts on vampires, werewolves, and even once a lich,
but she will not shed human blood, regardless of the
contract’s intentions. When given a new job, the Sniper
first scouts her proposed victim to determine whether
the target is acceptable, rejecting the contract if her
assessment is unfavorable. No matter how well-disguised
226
226
