Introduction
Gears
Gears
Equipment
Gunslingers
and
Shootists
Guns and
Black
Powder
Equipment
Guns and
Gears on
Golarion
Glossary
and Index
Guns &
GEARS
ADAPTABLE PADDLEBOAT
VEHICLE 2
UNCOMMON
MEDIUM
Price 110 gp
This amphibious clockwork boat moves through the water
using clockwork waterwheels to keep a slow, consistent
pace. When necessary, the boat uses ingenious clockwork to
reposition the waterwheels and transform them into wheels
suitable for land.
Space 10 feet long, 5 feet wide, 4 feet high
Crew 1 pilot; Passengers 1
Piloting Check Driving Lore (DC 16), Sailing Lore (DC 16), or
Crafting (DC 18)
AC 13; Fort +8
Hardness 5; HP 30 (BT 15); Immunities object immunities
Speed swim 15 feet (clockwork)
Collision 2d6 (DC 16)
Deploy Wheels [three-actions] The pilot engages a lever that activates
the clockwork components to transform the adaptable
paddleboat’s waterwheels into wheels for rolling along
the ground. This grants the adaptable paddleboat Speed
20 feet and reduces its swim Speed to 5 feet. This
transformation lasts until the pilot disengages the wheels
by using this activity again.
Wind-Up 10 minutes of wind-up, 1 hour of operational time,
DC 16, standby
CLUNKERJUNKER
VEHICLE 1
UNCOMMON
MEDIUM
Price 30 gp
A favorite of goblins, a clunkerjunker is essentially an
armored cart built out of junk that uses volatile flammable
chemicals, explosions, and alchemical reactions to propel
itself bumpily along. While the initial idea is impressive and
the cost of creating one is surprisingly low, these junkers,
unfortunately, have a strong tendency to malfunction, and
they’re always one bad bump away from disaster.
Space 10 feet long, 5 feet wide, 5 feet high
Crew 1 pilot; Passengers 1
Piloting Check Driving Lore (DC 16) or Crafting (DC 18)
AC 13; Fort +7
Hardness 5; HP 18 (BT 9); Immunities object immunities
Speed 30 feet (alchemical)
Collision 2d6 (DC 15)
Fall Apart When this vehicle takes physical damage the pilot
must attempt a DC 11 flat check (or a DC 20 flat check
when it takes a critical hit). On a failure, the armored hull
fractures and the vehicle loses its Hardness and takes a –4
circumstance penalty to AC.
Smog (aura, fire) 10 feet. Whenever this vehicle is being
piloted, it continually emits a thin haze of smoke and
chemicals. Creatures in the aura (including the pilot and
passengers) take a –1 circumstance penalty to visual
Perception checks.
Volatile Flamethrower [three-actions] (fire) The pilot performs a
three‑action activity on their turn to vent alchemical fire
out the sides of this vehicle. This requires three flasks
of minor alchemist’s fire, which the pilot loads into the
vent as part of the activity. The pilot must then attempt
a DC 5 flat check. On a success, creatures adjacent to this
vehicle take 1d8 fire damage (DC 15 basic Reflex save). On
a failure, it backfires, dealing 1d8 fire damage to the pilot
and any passengers, with no save.
PROPULSION
The vehicles in this section use the following new means
of propulsion, in addition to the forms listed in the
Gamemastery Guide.
CLOCKWORK PROPULSION
Powered by the measured release of energy stored in
springs via winding, clockwork propulsion is a fragile
thing of mechanical beauty and wonderous engineering.
Clockwork vehicles can often be piloted with the
Crafting skill.
A clockwork vehicle must be wound to remain
operational. Clockwork vehicles have the Wind-Up
trait, with the specifics listed in its stat block under the
wind‑up ability.
For a clockwork vehicle to move or take other actions,
it must be wound by a creature using a unique key. This
takes the amount of time listed. Once wound, it remains
operational for the listed amount of time, after which
time it becomes inactive and immobile until it’s wound
again. Some clockwork vehicles’ abilities require them
to spend some of their remaining operational time.
They can’t spend more than they have and shut down
immediately once they have 0 time remaining. If it’s
unclear when a clockwork vehicle was last wound, most
vehicles are re-wound approximately half-way through
their operating time.
A clockwork vehicle can be placed into standby mode
by its pilot as a 3-action activity. Its operational time
doesn’t decrease in standby.
A creature can attempt to Disable a Device to wind a
clockwork vehicle down (with a DC listed in the wind-up
entry). For each success, the clockwork vehicle loses 10
minutes of operational time. This can be done even if the
clockwork vehicle is in standby mode.
Broken clockwork vehicles have difficulty holding
energy. The first time each round a broken clockwork
vehicle moves, it must make a DC 5 flat check. On a
failure, it loses 10 minutes of operational time.
ELECTRICAL PROPULSION
Electrical power, whether the vehicle uses magical
electricity or the extremely rare new Stasian coil
technology to store electricity without magic, allows for
vehicles that make significantly less disturbance than
some other propulsion methods. Electrical vehicles can
often be piloted with the Crafting skill.
93
93
