Introduction
Gears
Characters
Gears
Equipment
Guns
Characters
Guns
Equipment
The Rotating
Gear
Glossary
And Index
Guns &
GEARS
YOU MIGHT...
•	 Have lived for several centuries and through many significant events.
•	 Be hesitant to trust others until they’ve earned it.
•	 Remember little of your life before becoming an automaton.
OTHERS PROBABLY...
•	 Mistake you for a mindless construct when they first see you.
•	 Assume you have secret knowledge about magic and technology.
•	 Look upon you with awe.
PHYSICAL DESCRIPTION
Automatons share a common construction—a blend of magically treated
metals and stone. This design allows automatons to withstand the rigors of
direct combat and makes them particularly hardy. Their heavy bodies can
move just as quickly as other combatants, making automatons intimidating
foes. The design of an automaton varies depending on the needs of its role.
Most automatons have a basic humanoid shape, though some instead have
shapes that closely resemble animals. The majority of automatons have a
single eye that glows with a dim, magical light. Each also contains a powerful
artifact that both houses its individual soul and uses a combination of life
and planar energy for power. These automaton cores are marvels of magical
engineering whose method of creation has been lost to time.
As constructs, automatons typically don’t need to breathe, eat, or sleep;
however, the body of an automaton needs to vent an imperceivable magical
exhaust at a constant rate. This venting process requires breathable air
to prevent a buildup of exhaust that can clog the automaton’s systems,
sometimes to fatal effect. Thus, automatons can still suffocate much like
living creatures. Though they don’t sleep, automatons require a period of
magical recalibration and restoration which stabilizes the energies within
their core. Without this process, an automaton core is incapable of fully
powering the automaton and they enter an inefficient state (similar to a
humanoid who doesn’t get 8 hours of sleep).
Automatons don’t age and the design of their cores grants them a
seemingly endless power source. Many automatons that exist today are
thousands of years old, their bodies as efficient as the day of their creation,
even if their minds might have deteriorated with the strain of the ages.
Automatons lost over time typically met violent ends. An automaton’s body
is just as vulnerable to destruction as any other construct, though destroying
an automaton core is more difficult. As such, an automaton’s soul might
remain trapped within its core for years after the destruction of its body.
This was the intent of the original creators, who hoped to provide functional
immortality. However, in reality, the destruction of the body more often leads
to a malfunction, requiring magical intervention such as resurrection magic
to restore the automaton completely. In the case of the core’s destruction, or
if it malfunctions catastrophically enough that it can no longer hold the soul,
the core releases the spirit to the River of Souls.
In some cases, an automaton can learn how to consciously or subconsciously
influence its core. These automatons eventually learn how to release their
souls from their cores, allowing their souls to move on when they feel they
have achieved a satisfying life. This act leaves the automaton as a mindless
construct, typically still active but no longer capable of anything but aimless
wandering and occasional acts of self-defense.
SOCIETY
Due to the disparate fates of automatons, many of them lead solitary lives.
There are a few cases of automatons originally designed to work together, such
RARITY
Rare
HIT POINTS
8
SIZE
Medium or Small
SPEED
25 feet
ABILITY BOOSTS
Strength
Free
LANGUAGES
Common
Utopian, the language of the plane of
Axis
Additional languages equal to your
Intelligence modifier (if it’s positive).
Choose from Abyssal, Aquan, Auran,
Celestial, Dwarven, Elven, Ignan,
Infernal, Terran, and any other
languages to which you have access
(such as the languages prevalent in
your region). At the GM’s discretion, if
you still have memories from your time
in Jistka, you might speak Jistka instead
of Common.
TRAITS
Automaton
Construct
AUTOMATON CORE
Your body contains an automaton core
infused with planar quintessence that
grants you power to perform various
tasks and houses your soul and life
energy. This life energy flows through
you much like the blood of humanoids.
As a result, you are a living creature.
You don’t have the typical construct
immunities, can be affected by effects
that target a living creature, and
can recover Hit Points normally via
positive energy. Additionally, you are
not destroyed when reduced to 0
Hit Points. Instead, your life energy
attempts to keep you active even in
dire straits; you are knocked out and
begin dying when reduced to 0 Hit
Points (Core Rulebook 459).
(cont’d)
37
37
