While an infinite number of character concepts exist,
you might find that the feats and skill choices from
a single class aren’t sufficient to fully realize your
character. If you’re hoping to add a splash of technology
and invention to your character’s abilities while playing
a class other than inventor, these archetypes will allow
you to expand the scope of your character’s class.
Applying an archetype requires you to select
archetype feats instead of choosing class feats from your
class. Start by finding the archetype that best fits your
character concept, and select the archetype’s dedication
feat using one of your class feat choices. Once you have
the dedication feat, you can select any feat from that
archetype in place of a class feat as long as you meet
its prerequisites. The archetype feat you select is still
subject to any selection restrictions on the class feat it
replaces. For example, if you gained an ability at 6th
level that granted you a 4th-level class feat with the
dwarf trait, you could swap out that class feat only for
an archetype feat of 4th level or lower with the dwarf
trait. Archetype feats you gain in place of a class feat are
called archetype class feats.
Occasionally, an archetype feat works like a skill
feat instead of a class feat. These archetype feats have
the skill trait, and you select them in place of a skill
feat, otherwise following the same rules above. These
are not archetype class feats (for instance, to determine
the number of Hit Points you gain from the Fighter
Resiliency archetype feat).
Each archetype’s dedication feat represents a certain
portion of your character’s time and focus, so once
you select a dedication feat for an archetype, you must
satisfy the requirements listed in its “Special” entry
before you can gain another dedication feat. Typically,
you satisfy an archetype dedication feat by gaining a
certain number of feats from the archetype’s list. You
cannot retrain a dedication feat as long as you have any
other feats from that archetype.
Sometimes an archetype feat lets you gain another
feat, such as the alchemist’s Basic Concoction feat. You
must always meet the prerequisites of the feat you gain
in this way.
Additional Feats
Some archetypes allow other feats beyond those with
full write-ups in their archetype entry. These are typically
class feats, such as fighter feats that represent certain
combat styles. The list of additional feats includes
the feat’s name, its level, and the page number where
it appears. You can take the feat as an archetype feat
of that level, meaning it counts toward the number of
feats required by the archetype’s dedication feat. When
selected this way, a feat that normally has a class trait
doesn’t have that class trait.
Multiclass Archetypes
Archetypes with the multiclass trait represent diversifying
your character’s training into another class’s specialties.
You can’t select a multiclass archetype’s dedication feat
if you are already a member of the class of the same
name (for instance, a fighter can’t select the Fighter
Dedication feat).
Gears Archetype List
The following archetypes each allow you to build a
character with strong ties to gears and gadgets in a
variety of different ways.
•	 The inventor multiclass archetype (page 49) adds
some inventor abilities to a character of any class.
This allows all sorts of characters to flex their
ingenuity in order to solve problems through
brilliant invention.
•	 The overwatch archetype (page 50) uses enhanced
visual gear to watch the battlefield, taking
advantage of enemies’ openings and assisting allies
in a bind.
•	 The sterling dynamo archetype (page 52) gains
powerful uses out of their clockwork prosthetic.
While the prosthetic is usually an arm, the archetype
covers characters replacing or augmenting any limb
with a clockwork prosthetic.
•	 The trapsmith archetype (page 54) expands the
snarecrafter archetype with special options for
creating snares with cogwheels and gears, granting
a variety of special benefits impossible with an
ordinary snare.
•	 The trick driver archetype (page 55) drives a vehicle
into battle, crushing opponents who stand in their
way. A great choice for a character who wishes to
pilot a vehicle and join in the fight, whether it’s a
personal vehicle or one shared by the group.
•	 The vehicle mechanic archetype (page 56) gets the
most out of a specific vehicle, granting that vehicle
special benefits. This makes a vehicle mechanic a
natural combination with a trick driver to pilot
the vehicle.
GEARS ARCHETYPES
KEY TERMS
You’ll see the following key terms in several archetypes.
Flourish: Actions with this trait are special techniques
that require too much exertion for you to perform
frequently. You can use only 1 action with the flourish
trait per turn.
Reckless: Actions with the reckless trait run the risk
of the pilot losing control of a vehicle. When performing
a reckless action, the pilot must first attempt an
appropriate piloting check to keep control of the vehicle.
48
48
