Your body can be reconfigured; you can select this feat at
any level, and you can retrain into or out of this feat or change
the type of attack you gain.
Enhancement Your attacking part is reinforced. Increase
the damage die of the unarmed attack you gain from this feat
by one step (from 1d4 to 1d6, or from 1d6 to 1d8).
ARCANE COMMUNICATION
FEAT 1
AUTOMATON
You can deliver silent messages. You gain touch telepathy,
allowing you to communicate silently and mentally with any
creature you’re touching, as long as you share a language.
Enhancement You can send your messages even further.
Your telepathy gains a range of 10 feet, but you still have to
share a language with your target.
ARCANE EYE
FEAT 1
AUTOMATON
Prerequisites low-light vision
Your eye has been magically enhanced to pierce darkness. You
gain darkvision.
Enhancement Your eye can see invisible creatures in brief
spurts. You can cast see invisibility as an arcane innate spell
once per hour.
AUTOMATON LORE
FEAT 1
AUTOMATON
You have come to better understand the process that
made your body and the magic that powers it. You gain the
trained proficiency rank in Arcana and Crafting. If you would
automatically become trained in one of those skills (from
your background or class, for example), you instead become
trained in a skill of your choice. You also become trained in
Automaton Lore.
Enhancement Your gain greater understanding. Increase
your proficiency rank in either Arcana or Crafting, as well as
Automaton Lore, to expert. If you were already an expert in
the chosen skill, increase your rank to master instead.
ENERGY BEAM
FEAT 1
AUTOMATON
You can channel your core’s power through the magical gem
that serves as your eye. You gain an energy beam ranged
unarmed attack that deals 1d4 fire damage. The energy
beam has a range increment of 20 feet. On a critical hit, the
target takes persistent fire damage equal to the number
of weapon damage dice. Your eye beam does not add
critical specialization effects.
Enhancement You channel greater power. Increase
the damage die of your energy beam by one step, from
1d4 to 1d6.
REINFORCED CHASSIS
FEAT 1
AUTOMATON
Your body is designed to be particularly resilient. Your chassis
is medium armor in the plate armor group that grants a +4
item bonus to AC, a Dex cap of +1, a check penalty of –2, a
speed penalty of –5 feet, and a Strength value of 16. You can
never wear other armor or remove your chassis; however, you
still don’t become fatigued from sleeping. Finally, you can etch
armor runes onto your chassis as normal.
Enhancement Your chassis becomes difficult to overcome.
You gain the Chassis Deflection reaction.
CHASSIS DEFLECTION [reaction]
Trigger A critical hit deals physical damage to you.
Attempt a DC 17 flat check. If you are successful, the attack
becomes a normal hit.
40
40
WARRIOR Automaton
