If you have the breakthrough innovation class feature, you can
choose either a 5-foot or 10-foot emanation for the area when
you use Explode; if you have the revolutionary innovation class
feature, you can choose a 5-foot, 10-foot, or 15-foot emanation.
PEERLESS INVENTOR
You are constantly inventing, and your skill at crafting is
unimpeachable. You gain the Inventor skill feat, even if
you don’t meet its prerequisites.
SHIELD BLOCK
You gain the Shield Block general feat, a reaction that lets
you reduce damage with your shield.
INVENTOR FEATS
At 1st level and every even-numbered level, you gain
an inventor class feat. Some features and feats use an
assortment of gizmos you keep on your person. For
simplicity, these are left abstract, but if you are deprived of
your gear for some reason, you might lose access to many
feats and features, subject to GM discretion.
SKILL FEATS
2ND
At 2nd level and every 2 levels thereafter, you gain a skill
feat. You must be trained or better in the corresponding
skill to select a skill feat.
EXPERT OVERDRIVE
3RD
You’ve increased your skill in crafting, and you can put
your devices into a more powerful state of overdrive. You
become an expert in Crafting, and on a successful use of
Overdrive, you increase the additional damage by 1.
GENERAL FEATS
3RD
At 3rd level and every 4 levels thereafter, you gain a
general feat.
RECONFIGURE
3RD
You’ve become an expert in all crafts and are always
adjusting your inventions. You can attempt to change
the modifications on your innovation by spending 1 day
of downtime tinkering with it and attempting a Crafting
check, with a high DC for your level. On a success, you
can change one modification you’ve chosen for your
innovation to a different modification of the same kind
(initial, breakthrough, or revolutionary).
If you have any modification feats, on a successful
check you can choose to instead retrain a modification
feat to a different modification feat. The new feat has to
meet the standard restrictions for retraining.
SKILL INCREASES
3RD
At 3rd level and every 2 levels thereafter, you gain a
skill increase. You can use this increase to either become
trained in one skill you’re untrained in, or become an
expert in one skill in which you’re already trained.
At 7th level, you can use skill increases to become a
master in a skill in which you’re already an expert, and
at 15th level, you can use them to become legendary in a
skill in which you’re already a master.
ABILITY BOOSTS
5TH
At 5th level and every 5 levels thereafter, you boost four
different ability scores. You can use these ability boosts to
increase your ability scores above 18. Boosting an ability
score increases it by 1 if it’s already 18 or above, or by 2 if
it starts out below 18.
ANCESTRY FEATS
5TH
In addition to the ancestry feat you started with, you gain
an ancestry feat at 5th level and every 4 levels thereafter.
INVENTOR WEAPON EXPERTISE
5TH
You develop tricks for using your weapons more
effectively. Your proficiency ranks for simple and martial
weapons and unarmed attacks increase to expert.
If you have a weapon innovation, you gain access to
the critical specialization effect with your innovation.
BREAKTHROUGH INNOVATION
7TH
You’ve made a breakthrough in your field of study
and discovered a powerful new way to enhance your
innovation. Choose a breakthrough modification of your
innovation’s type to apply to your innovation. You can
choose an initial modification of your innovation’s type
instead if you prefer.
Breakthrough Armor Modifications
•	 Antimagic Plating: Whether you used some clever
adaptation of the magic-negating skymetal known
as noqual or created magical protections of your
own design, you’ve strengthened your armor against
magic. While wearing the armor, you gain a +1
circumstance bonus to all saving throws against spells
and to AC against spells. Against spells that target the
armor directly (like heat metal), you instead gain a +4
circumstance bonus to all saving throws and to AC.
• Camouflage Pigmentation (Subterfuge Suit Only):
You’ve modified your armor’s exterior to let you
blend into your surroundings with ease, as long as
you stay still. While wearing your armor, you can
Hide even without cover or concealment, as the
pigmentation shifts to match your surroundings.
•	 Dense Plating: You have encased your armor in
robust plating. While wearing your armor, you gain
resistance to slashing damage equal to half your level.
•	 Enhanced Resistance: You’ve improved upon your
initial modification’s ability to resist damage. The
resistance from your initial armor modification
adds your full level, instead of half your level (for
instance, phlogistonic regulator’s resistance would
increase to your level). If you have more than one
20
20
