Preparations For War
Despite their differences, dwarves of Dongun Hold have
never forgotten the source of their troubles and long
exile—it was the warring human nations of Geb and Nex
that spoiled their lands and drove the dwarves from their
home. Aware that at any moment the old grudges between
these wizard nations could rekindle into devastating
war, the inhabitants of Dongun Hold remain alert for
signs of conflict which they both fear and consider to be
inevitable. The various factions and dwarves of Dongun
Hold offer their support to war preparations in
different, but invaluable ways.
Dwarves who dwell on the surface keep a
watchful eye out for trouble and their ears
open for rumors, both in Alkenstar and
further afield in Geb and Nex. Most work
to keep the citizens of Alkenstar on their
side and in fighting form, as Alkenstar
remains a convenient first line of
defense between Dongun Hold
and the neighboring wizard
nations. Other dwarves stay
in close contact with their
Kulenett kin, arming them
in secret to prepare for the
possibility of an undead
invasion of the Kulenett’s
underground highway.
Warriors train and invent
new combat styles relentlessly,
and practice methods for combating
spellcasters, undead, constructs, and fiends.
Many dwarves utilize firearms and explosives,
and those who don’t still know how the weapons
function for safety purposes.
Smiths of all kinds embrace Torag and Angradd as the
gods of creation and warfare, seeking their blessing as
they develop new arms and armor to protect themselves
and their people. Dwarven gunsmiths invent, advance,
and push boundaries, determined to create weapons
capable of overwhelming their enemies. Deep in the
Hold, the dwarves create the most ingenious weapons
in blessed forges, stamped with the seal of Angradd and
Torag, and keep them secret from the surface world.
Most Dongun dwarves are wary of spellcasters and
the undead, regardless of origin, and foreigners are
rarely invited into the halls of the Hold. Many dwarves
decorate their hair, beards, and armor with miniature
censers, embers, or tindertwigs—objects useful for
rapidly creating sparks and flame—and style their hair
with nonflammable cream while lathering their skin
with flame-repellent ointments and lotions.
The most cautious dwarves urge High King Arunak
to reopen the Darklands retreat they once called home,
while priests reinforce old protections and masons
refortify battlements, caverns, and other defenses.
BLACK POWDER INNOVATORS
The advent of black powder technology drastically
changed life in the Mana Wastes for dwarves of Dongun
Hold and their Alkenstar neighbors. Although many
alchemists, inventors, and smiths have contributed to the
evolution and advancement of black powder weaponry, the
contributions of six dwarves rise above all others. These
six dwarves were founding members of the Sparkforge
Collective and the very first to harness black powder. They
collaborated throughout their careers, sharing discoveries,
building upon one another’s successes, and learning
from each other’s failures. These respected
dwarven innovators are listed below.
Jarvek Goldtongue (N Male Dwarf
Politician): Remembered more as a politician
than an inventor, Jarvek is widely regarded
as the mastermind behind the Sparkforge
Collective. They’re responsible for acquiring
funding and facilities for the group to
conduct their work and for sharing
the
group’s
advances
and
inventions with leadership
and
security
councils.
Without Jarvek’s tireless
politicking, the Sparkforge
Collective wouldn’t exist.
Maribun
Enbit
(NG
Female Dwarf Alchemist):
An alchemist by trade,
Maribun was the first to deduce
the composition of black powder and
successfully recreate it. Although her formula has
been refined over the years, nearly all common iterations
are based upon her work.
Brondar Steelheart (N Agender Dwarf Blacksmith):
Brondar experimented with black powder’s explosive
qualities and was the first to create a controlled explosion
using it. Their efforts in creating and cataloging black
powder explosions paved the way for the safe creation of
explosives, firearms, and a variety of black powder tools.
Alrune Thengor (CG Male Dwarf Demolitionist): A
talented engineer and stonemason, Alrune was an expert
in demolitions. He created the first compact black powder
explosive, which he housed in a flammable mushroom husk.
Herrod the Brash (CE Male Dwarf Demolitionist): Known
for his mood swings, Herrod was the first to successfully
combine black powder weaponry with fuses.
Nelbi Firebrow (LN Female Dwarf Gunsmith, Deceased):
Nelbi created the first black powder firearm. Incredibly
volatile and hand lit, her creation numbers among the most
influential inventions in the history of the Mana Wastes.
Other major advancements in black powder weaponry
include the creation of the first matchlock firearm by Kravik
the Clanless (unknown) and the creation of the flintlock
mechanism by Oga Ulstod (LG female dwarf engineer).
194
194
Brondar Steelheart
