In the world of Golarion, technology moves at its own
unusual pace. The widespread use of magic advanced
the ability for certain developments and discoveries, as
spells provided a natural way to discover new data or
solve a technological issue that required generations of
innovation on Earth. However, magic has been equally
a hindrance in the development of other technologies,
as the relative advancement and availability of low-level
magic meant it simply wasn’t worth the development
cost and time it would take to devote resources to
expanding other technologies whose benefits were easily
replicable by magic.
Another influencing factor in the development of
technology has been the many horrific cataclysms that
have befallen the planet of Golarion as a whole, and
various regions and nations in turn. Sometimes, a
technology discovered in ancient times is lost to Golarion
for millennia, only to resurface much later. For instance,
Xin, the first emperor of the ancient empire of Thassilon,
mastered the creation of clockworks over 10,000 years
ago, only to see his palace sink to the bottom of the ocean
and his discoveries lost to the ages.
Across much of Golarion, the options presented in this
chapter are uncommon at best, and some of them, like
Stasian technology, are rare or even unique in the world.
If you’re playing in a different setting than Golarion, your
group should decide if some or all of the technologies in
this chapter are more widely available, or if they aren’t
available at all.
Lands of Gears
In some corners of Golarion, these options are more
available than in others. Whether it’s due to discoveries
of ancient technology, the determination of a few
obsessed visionaries, or a storied history of innovation,
these tech-friendly locations, nations, and regions are
places where an enterprising player character looking
for technology might find that which they seek... and
possibly more than they bargained for as well.
CLOCKWORK
Absalom, the “City at the Center of the World,” naturally,
has access to engineering techniques from across the world,
and its famed Clockwork Cathedral (page 203) is a center
of learning for clockwork technologies. Meanwhile, many
inhabitants of the nation of New Thassilon, which recently
returned to the world after spending centuries displaced in
time, still remember some of First Emperor Xin’s secrets
regarding clockworks. These people tend to eagerly
explore new innovations that were created during their
GEARS CHARACTERS
The scorch marks on the wall made it clear: dragon breath. From what our wizard
said, that would probably make our adversary a red dragon. It wouldn’t have been
hard for a creature so greedy, powerful, and proud to beat us into these ancient ruins,
recently unsealed by a massive earthquake. Though something still didn’t seem right.
Most of the scorch marks weren’t fresh at all and were covered by ancient dust. When
we exited the tunnel into the great ruined chamber, we saw a gleaming metal dragon
made of thousands of clockwork parts, its fangs and claws tapering off into a dark
black metal. Adamantine, maybe? How could this be? The ruins were sealed for ages,
and I’d only ever seen a creature like this once before in Absalom. I remember hearing
the one from Absalom was cutting edge, too, but its design was much more rudimentary.
This shouldn’t be possible! But then the gears began to click and whir, and the dragon
construct’s mouth snapped open. A wave of flame arose from deep within its mechanical
body, licking from its maw in tongues of fire. Fortunately, this dragon wasn’t the only one
with a few tricks up its chassis. Sparks flew from my experimental armor as I activated
the new, if somewhat unstable, feature I created for situations just like this. When the
smoke cleared, I was barely singed, thanks to the heat-dispersing properties of my armor.
Our wizard wasn’t in the best of shape, though, and a pouch of my medicinal herbs had
caught fire. Thinking quickly, I finished what the dragon had started and vaporized
the herbs in an explosion, delivering much-needed relief to the wounded wizard. As I
pounded my fists together, electricity sparking between my two armored gauntlets, I
turned to face the dragon anew.
—Eliara Sparkwright, Inventor Extraordinaire
1212
