stopper on a potion bottle, but they can grasp and hold up
to 50 Bulk.
Open Eyes [two-actions] (Interact) A crew member pulls a lever to
open the apparatus’s eyes, which shine bright light within
20 feet and dim light for the next 20 feet. A crew member
can take this action again to close the eyes.
Open Portholes [two-actions] (Interact) A crew member pulls a lever
to open two portholes, allowing the crew to see outside
the apparatus and other creatures to see
into it. A crew member can take this
action again to close the portholes.
Submersible The apparatus of the octopus
can protect its crew and passengers
from water pressure to a maximum
depth of 5,000 feet and contains
enough air for 12 hours for a
pilot alone or 6 hours for a
pilot and passenger or crew
member.
AMBLING SURVEYOR VEHICLE 14
RARE
HUGE
Price 13,000 gp
This huge, magical clockwork rover moves
on a continuous band of heavy treads, which make it
easier to for the device to navigate across various adverse
conditions. It contains magical clockwork birds which can
transmit visual information back to the surveyor.
Space 15 feet long, 15 feet wide, 20 feet high
Crew 1 pilot, 2 crew; Passengers 7
Piloting Check Driving Lore (DC 32) or Crafting (DC 34)
AC 33; Fort +25
Hardness 20; HP 190 (BT 95); Immunities object
immunities
Speed 15 feet (clockwork,
magical)
Collision 8d12 (DC 30)
Continuous Track This vehicle
travels on a continuous band of
heavy treads driven by a series
of gears and wheels, enabling it
to travel over rugged land with
ease. Earth, rock, rubble, slopes,
and underbrush are not difficult
terrain to an ambling surveyor.
The ambling surveyor ignores difficult
terrain from earth, rock, rubble, slopes, and
underbrush, and greater difficult terrain caused by
those features is normal difficult terrain to the ambling
surveyor.
Sluggish This vehicle must move twice its length for each
90-degree turn it makes.
Survey (concentrate, divination, exploration, magical,
manipulate, visual) Requirements The ambling surveyor
is not in motion; Effect The pilot and crew release a
collection of six clockwork birds, which spend two hours
flying over the surrounding area within a 1-mile radius
around the ambling surveyor. Everything the birds see
is magically transmitted back to the ambling surveyor’s
crew as illusory images, which the crew must catalogue
in real-time if they want to use the information to fully
survey the area and create a map. After two hours, the
birds return. The birds use the base statistics of clockwork
spies (Bestiary 3 page 48) if they are attacked, or if their
Perception is important to determine what they can see,
although they only perform the Survey action and they
don’t have any of the other abilities of a clockwork
spy. Replacement birds cost 250
gp each.
Wind-Up 10
minutes
of
wind‑up, 1 hour of operational
time, DC 32, standby
TITANIC STOMPER
VEHICLE 15
RARE
GARGANTUAN
Price 19,000 gp
Among the most dangerous vehicles
created in Ustalav with a mix of
magic and the new Stasian technology, a
titanic stomper is shaped like a long sinuous lizard or
behir with carefully placed Stasian coils and eight big
stomping legs. Titanic stompers were meant to devastate the
armies of the undead. Only two exist, making them almost
unique, and the means to create more have been stymied,
as some of the crucial inventors were killed in the process
of attempting to design a follow-up technology, a smaller but
more powerful suit of mechanized armor called the
Grobelarch that ultimately went berserk and killed its
creators.
Space 60 feet long, 30 feet wide, 60 feet high
Crew 1 pilot, 3 crew; Passengers 6
Piloting Check Driving Lore (DC 34) or Crafting
(DC 36)
AC 34; Fort +26
Hardness 20; HP 230 (BT 115); Immunities
object immunities; Resistances electricity 20
Speed 40 feet, (electrical, magical)
Collision 9d12 (DC 32)
Bolt Blast [three-actions] Two crew members each
perform a three-action activity on
their turn to fire a line of lightning
at the end of the second character’s
turn. This line of lightning erupts from
the front of the titanic stomper at an angle of the crew
members’ choice and deals 5d12 electricity damage to each
creature in a 120-foot line (DC 34 basic Reflex save). The
Bolt Blast stops working if the titanic stomper is broken.
Electrical Absorption [reaction] Trigger The titanic stomper
is targeted by, or in the area of, an effect that deals
electricity damage; Effect The pilot uses their reaction to
activate the Stasian coils, which funnels the electricity
into the titanic stomper’s electrical engine. The next time
98
98
Apparatus of the Octopus
Ambling Surveyor
