Introduction
Gears
Characters
Gears
Equipment
Guns
Characters
Guns
Equipment
The Rotating
Gear
Glossary
And Index
Guns &
GEARS
The use of black powder in combat did not arise until the
dissolution of the Yixing empire. The conflict between the
rebels saw many instances of sabotage and defensive traps,
usually directed at cavalry troops. The rampant usage and
casualties caused left a deep impression on the first Emperor
of Shu. Once he came to power, he quickly mandated that
the substance—and creation of it—was prohibited unless
closely monitored by officials. While this greatly limited the
capacity of developing new technologies surrounding black
powder, it also pushed inventors to refine their creations to
pass the intense scrutiny of the imperial regulators.
FIREWORKS
Fireworks were among the first “creations” of black
powder technology, as the impurities and poor packing
technique of earlier mixes resulted in many unexpectedly
colorful explosions and accidental rockets.
During the rebellion that founded Shu, fireworks were
used as flares to send various signals to reinforcements,
or to report on an outcome of a battle at a far distance.
Officials seized the workhouses that created these flares
after the war and the majority were able to transition
into firework factories—a handful of which still exist
today. Rather than attempt to control these companies,
the government took over crucial mines and now oversee
the logistics of supplying them. Some factories only receive
enough to make small firecrackers and boxed fireworks,
while others are given so much that they must create large
and elaborate fireworks in order to use up their quota.
In addition, using bamboo test containers, the noise
they made proved to be an incredibly effective means
of scaring birds or monkeys that were preying on farm
produce. Because of this, some came to believe that the
noise, heat, and color of the explosions could ward off
evil, and began to use small fireworks during religious and
cultural ceremonies and celebrations. The use of fireworks
to celebrate the coming-of-age of the first heir of the Shu
Empire cemented the practice in history.
Flowers are a popular inspiration and theme for
designing fireworks, followed by other natural phenomena
such as rivers and snow. One can often tell an origin of a
firework by the flower depicted, such as chrysanthemum
for Minkai and mugunghwa for Hwanggot. Occasionally,
rich benefactors will commission fireworks with a religious
theme. A particularly famous example is the Thundering
Rainclouds created by Kwanlai’s first domestic fireworks
house. Dedicated to Hei Feng, the Duke of Thunder, the
roaring effect mimicked a real thunderstorm so closely that
many unaware inhabitants near the testing site evacuated
out of precaution, expecting a flood.
EXPLOSIVES
The usage of black powder in mines and quarries naturally
led to their use during warfare, particularly to induce
environmental hazards such as rockfall or avalanches.
The indiscriminate nature of the effects, in particular an
avalanche that killed both troops and commoners in the
thousands before the founding of Minkai, caused local
populations to resent the saboteurs. Over time, however,
the army engineers developed more precise explosives.
First came thrown black powder bombs, which offer a
variety of benefits, such as breaking enemy lines of sight
with smoke, making the air difficult to breathe, creating
sparks to scare mounts, and potentially injuring enemies.
The difficulty in precisely timing and throwing these
bombs, however, saw a shift in tactics after the collapse
of the Shu empire. Various groups began to develop land
THE SECRET OF BLACK POWDER
There are many tales of how the formulation of black
powder came about, most steeped with rumors and
hearsay. Some of the wilder stories do share surprising
commonalities, citing a competition between adventurers
going into the Darklands to retrieve a legendary alchemy
manual said to contain many astounding formulas—the
black powder formula among them. The story of Kana
is the most widely told, though also the most easily
disproved. After many expeditions, failures, and deaths, a
single explorer named Kana (heritage and gender lost to
time) emerged unscathed with a ripped page containing
the coveted formula in hand. The formula quickly sold
to the highest bidder, allowing the explorer to retire to a
luxurious lifestyle for the remainder of their life. When
asked in their twilight years how they managed such
a feat, the stories say, Kana deflected the question by
telling stories of all the times they had failed, as well as
the ridiculous amount of alcohol they needed in order to
achieve such an accomplishment.
Many tales assume that Kana meant that they had
to consume many drinks to cope with the terrors of the
Darklands. Unknown in even the most outlandish of
the legends, Kana was taking barrels of alcohol there
as tribute to the then-juvenile underworld dragon,
Kuenen. While the dragon did not actually own the
manual sought after, her draconic family did, so she had
permission to peruse it for her own alchemical interest.
Kuenen’s alchemical formula book therefore had partial
instructions on the preparation of black powder. Once
word got out that the secret of black powder had been
released into the mortal realm, Kuenen was punished
heavily. She was bound forever to her humanoid form
by a powerful ritual, a heavy humiliation for the proud
dragon. Following that, her family exiled and banished
her from entering the Darklands, citing that she is not
to return until she has erased the knowledge of black
powder from the surface world.
While there is no information on Kuenen’s progress,
she most likely took her revenge on Kana. The legends
say that Kana died after drinking poisoned alcohol in the
midst of revelry.
221
221
