prone, benefiting from cover, or near a feature that allows you
to Take Cover, and you need to be benefiting from cover or
concealed to a creature to Hide from that creature.
Initial Deed
ONE SHOT, ONE KILL [free-action]
GUNSLINGER
Trigger You roll Stealth for initiative.
Your first shot is the deadliest. Interact to draw a firearm
or crossbow. On your first turn, your first Strike with that
weapon deals an additional 1d6 precision damage. This
precision damage increases to 2d6 at 9th level and 3d6 at
15th level.
Advanced Deed
9th
VITAL SHOT [two-actions]
GUNSLINGER
Your careful shot against an unsuspecting opponent pierces
a vital artery or organ. Make a ranged Strike. If the target is
flat‑footed, the Strike deals an extra die of weapon damage,
and the foe takes persistent bleed damage equal to the
amount of precision damage from your One Shot, One Kill.
Greater Deed
15th
GHOST SHOT [one-action]
FLOURISH
GUNSLINGER
Make a firearm or crossbow Strike. If you’re hidden from
or undetected by the target, the Strike adds the additional
precision damage from One Shot, One Kill; if you would
already receive that additional damage on the Strike, the
effects aren’t cumulative. If you were undetected or unnoticed
by any creatures, you’re now hidden from them instead, as the
origin of the attack is clear.
WAY OF THE VANGUARD
You practice a unique combat style originated by dwarven
siege engineers, using heavy weapons with wide attack
areas to blast holes through enemy lines, clear an opening
for your allies, and defend the conquered territory.
Slinger’s Reload Clear a Path
Deeds Initial Living Fortification; Advanced Spinning Crush;
Greater Siegebreaker
Way Skill Athletics
Slinger’s Reload
CLEAR A PATH [one-action]
GUNSLINGER
Requirements You’re wielding a two-handed firearm or
two‑handed crossbow.
You push outward with your weapon to clear some space
before quickly reloading a fresh round. You make an Athletics
check to Shove an opponent within your reach using your
weapon, then Interact to reload. For this Shove, you don’t
need a free hand, and you add the weapon’s item bonus on
attack rolls (if any) to the Athletics check. If your last action
was a ranged Strike with the weapon, use the same multiple
attack penalty as that Strike for the Shove; the Shove still
counts toward your multiple attack penalty on further attacks
as normal.
Initial Deed
LIVING FORTIFICATION [free-action]
GUNSLINGER
Trigger You roll initiative.
You can posture defensively with firearms or crossbows, acting
like a walking tower. Interact to draw a firearm or crossbow. You
then position that weapon defensively, gaining a +1 circumstance
bonus to AC until the start of your first turn, or a +2 circumstance
bonus if the chosen weapon has the parry trait.
Advanced Deed
9th
SPINNING CRUSH [three-actions]
GUNSLINGER
Requirements You’re wielding a loaded firearm or loaded
crossbow.
You go into a vicious spin, smashing your weapon into those
nearby and increasing your momentum by firing. All creatures
adjacent to you take 1d6 bludgeoning damage plus your
Strength modifier; this increases to 2d6 if your firearm has a
striking rune, 3d6 if it has a greater striking rune, and 4d6 if
it has a major striking rune. This ability does not apply other
effects that increase damage with your firearm Strikes such as
weapon specialization. Creatures affected by this attack must
attempt a basic Reflex save. A creature that fails its save is
also pushed 5 feet directly away from you.
Greater Deed
15th
SIEGEBREAKER [two-actions]
GUNSLINGER
Requirements You’re wielding a firearm that has the kickback
or scatter trait, or a two-handed crossbow.
With unbelievable force, you charge and smash your weapon
into a target before digging in your heels and pulling the
trigger. Leap or Stride, then make a Strike with the required
firearm or crossbow against an adjacent target. This Strike
deals an additional 3d8 bludgeoning damage and ignores 10
points of the target’s Hardness (if any), or of their shield’s
Hardness if the target uses Shield Block.
After the Strike, you become immobilized and position the
required weapon defensively, gaining a +1 circumstance bonus
to AC, or a +2 circumstance bonus if the chosen weapon has
the parry trait. Both effects last until the start of your next
turn. If a force would move you while you’re immobilized in
this way, it must succeed at an appropriate check against your
class DC.
110
110
