Introduction
Gears
Characters
Gears
Equipment
Guns
Characters
Guns
Equipment
The Rotating
Gear
Glossary
And Index
Guns &
GEARS
HISTORY OF BLACK POWDER
ARTILLERY ON GOLARION
As with any other realm of scientific advancement, siege
weapon designs have evolved through time and across
the world. The earliest black powder siege weapons were
created by Tian alchemists experimenting with fireworks
and large-scale explosions. Many of these weapons were
simple devices made of bamboo or bound iron tubes
that fired stones or iron balls with many similarities to
firework launching instruments. While limited in range
and accuracy, the force was markedly more powerful
than typical weaponry of the time. Larger, clumsier
weapons like the hwacha increased their lethality and
range at the cost of mobility. It hasn’t been until recently,
however, with the advent of black powder weapons from
Dongun Hold and Alkenstar, that a new generation of
black powder artillery has begun to spread slowly across
the world.
If you fail this misfire flat check, the siege weapon
misfires and jams, and the attack also becomes a critical
failure. To clear the jam, the crew must collectively use
a number of Interact actions equal to the number of
actions required to complete a single Load activity for
the siege weapon. The weapon can then be reloaded and
fired again. Once the crew has spent at least an hour
cleaning and maintaining the weapon, they don’t need
to roll for a misfire until the next day unless an effect
says otherwise.
If you critically fail a misfire check when attempting to
fire a siege weapon, the siege weapon explodes, dealing
the damage listed in its Launch entry to all creatures in
a 30-foot emanation with a basic Reflex save. The DC of
the save is the standard DC of the siege weapon’s level
(Core Rulebook 503). When it explodes in this way, the
siege weapon is destroyed.
SIEGE WEAPON STATISTICS
A siege weapon uses the following stat block format. An
individual siege weapon might omit some of these sections,
especially a portable siege weapon. Since all these siege
weapon use black powder, they have (black powder) in their
usage entry.
ALCHEMICAL SPRINGALD
ITEM 13
UNCOMMON
HUGE
Price 6,000 gp; Ammunition bomb arrows (100 gp, 2 Bulk)
Usage mounted (black powder); Space 15 feet long, 12 feet
wide, 15 feet high
Crew 3 to 5; Proficiency martial
AC 29; Fort +23, Reflex +16
Hardness 15; HP 200 (BT 100); Immunities object immunities
Speed 10 feet (pulled or pushed)
Like the standard springald, an alchemical springald can
launch three arrows simultaneously when its paddle is
released. It fires specially crafted and balanced bomb arrows
that carry black powder enhanced alchemical payloads that
explode on impact.
Aim [two-actions] 30 feet, minimum distance 50 feet
Load [two-actions] (manipulate) 3 times
Launch [one-action] (manipulate, range increment 100 feet) 10d6
damage and 3 splash damage, three different targets
within a 15-foot burst, DC 30 Reflex. The damage type
depends on the alchemical ammunition used: acid, cold,
electricity, or fire. Creatures take the splash damage only
once from the launch, even if they’re in the area of more
than one of the three splashes.
BLASTING RAM
ITEM 7
UNCOMMON
LARGE
Price 360 gp; Ammunition ram powder charge (2 gp, 1 Bulk)
Usage portable (black powder), held in 8 hands; Bulk 14
Crew 4; Proficiency martial
A blasting ram is a smaller battering ram that supplements
the crew’s size with explosive force. A steel reservoir holds
a charge of black powder that ignites on impact. The body
of the ram is reinforced to absorb the force of the explosion,
while the head itself has a blast shield to protect the crew.
Despite being a portable siege weapon, a blast ram has the
Load action, which the crew uses to load the powder charge
in the ram’s head.
Load [two-actions] (manipulate) 2 times
Ram [two-actions] Requirements The other members of the crew have
Readied to Stride on your order; Effect You and the crew
Stride, with a maximum distance equal to the slowest crew
member’s Speed. Then, make a melee Strike with the ram
against a structure or unattended stationary object. As
you do, the black powder in the steel reservoir explodes,
significantly increasing the damage of your attack. Due
to the black powder’s additional force, the damage of
this Strike is 7d8 + the highest Strength modifier among
members of the crew.
BOMBARD
ITEM 5
UNCOMMON
LARGE
Price 300 gp; Ammunition stone spheres (4 gp, 4 Bulk)
Usage mounted (black powder); Space 10 feet long, 4 feet
wide, 5 feet high
Crew 2 to 4; Proficiency martial
AC 17; Fort +12, Reflex +5
Hardness 10; HP 40 (BT 20); Immunities object immunities
Speed 10 feet (pulled or pushed)
Bombards are some of the oldest and simplest of black
powder siege weapons, devised based on many of the same
principles as a hand cannon, but deploying them on a larger
scale and scope. A bombard’s body is usually made of brass
or iron, which causes the bombard to resemble the shape of
a large bell. While they are capable of moving very slowly,
their clumsy and weighty design means bombards usually
remain stationary. This in turn means they’re often used
more defensively than offensively.
173
173
