without adding weird science to the game can allow
their players to use the Guns chapters, eschewing the
Gears chapters. A GM who wants to create a world of
clockwork constructs and fantastic inventions unmarred
by black powder weaponry can instead allow players
to use the Gears chapters without giving access to the
Guns chapters. Finally, a GM who remains unsure how
any of these elements might fit into their game world is
encouraged to read The Rotating Gear at the back of
this book to see how these technologies have grown and
spread through Golarion, and perhaps gain inspiration
regarding how these elements might fit into their game.
FUNCTIONALITY AND BALANCE
Golarion is a world of magic with rune-bedecked swords
forged out of metal fallen from the sky, full plate armor
similar to that produced on Earth during the 15th century,
and other armaments unlike anything the people of Earth
ever had access to. As such, the black powder weapons
and technological gadgets presented in this book are
mechanically balanced to the other options available to
all characters. Firearms, though capable of devastating
critical hits, work alongside crossbows and composite
longbows rather than replace them, in much the same
way firearms and bows were both actively used in Asia
for nearly 900 years of human history.
AREN’T GUNS MORE POWERFUL THAN BOWS?
The guns presented in this book are representative of fairly
early firearms with just a few unique twists, as explained
in the introduction of the Guns Equipment chapter (page
146). Those old guns, which used black powder that did
not exhibit the refinements of modern ammunition and
lacked the rifle barrel technology for increasing range and
accuracy, were extremely inaccurate and no more lethal
with a glancing blow than most bows and crossbows;
however, these firearms’ penetrating power was superior,
and a wound to a vital area could prove incredibly deadly.
This lethality is represented mechanically by the fatal
trait given to most firearms, with a critical hit indicating
a gunshot to a vital organ or other important body part.
This mechanic allows a firearm to do far more damage in
6
