When the ammunition runs out, a new magazine must
be loaded, which requires a free hand and three Interact
actions (to remove the old magazine, retrieve the new
magazine, and slot the new magazine in place). As with
other types of reloading that take multiple actions, these
actions don’t need to be consecutive.
Scatter: This weapon fires a cluster of pellets in a wide
spray. Scatter always has an area listed with it, indicating
the radius of the spray. On a hit, the primary target of an
attack with a scatter weapon takes the listed damage, and
the target and all other creatures within the listed radius
around it take 1 splash damage per weapon damage die.
FIREARMS CRITICAL SPECIALIZATION
This book introduces the firearm weapon group, which
has the following critical specialization effect.
Firearm: The target must succeed at a Fortitude save
against your class DC or be stunned 1.
WEAPON DESCRIPTIONS
Each of the weapons listed in Table 4–1: Melee Weapons
and Table 4–2: Ranged Weapons are detailed below.
Air Repeater: A thin-barreled firearm that uses a
container of pressurized air instead of black powder to
propel small metal bullets from an attached cartridge,
the air repeater has fallen out of common use in Arcadia
due to its poor stopping power, though it’s still used
occasionally for casual hunting and sport shooting. The
air repeater and its longer-ranged, two-handed variant are
still valued by some for their ability to allow a shooter to
fire multiple rounds without needing to stop to reload or
crank to a new chamber. A typical air repeater magazine
holds 6 pellets.
Arquebus: This is a long rifle that offers more range
than the average firearm, though the long barrel and
ferocious kickback make the weapon particularly
unsteady unless a tripod or other stand is used to stabilize
it. The arquebus is one of the most commonly used long
guns among the soldiers of Dongun Hold and Alkenstar.
Bayonet: This blade or spike can be attached to a
crossbow or firearm but, unlike other attached weapons,
can be wielded in one hand as its own weapon. When
used as a separate weapon, it can’t benefit from any runes
or abilities that function only for attached weapons.
Blunderbuss: This weapon fires pellets from a
trumpet-shaped barrel, making it an excellent choice for
hunting brush fowl or dealing damage within a short, broad
area. Adventuring gunslingers often carry a blunderbuss to
deal with swarms of vermin and similar threats.
Clan Pistol: The tradition of dwarves displaying their
clan affiliations with special clan daggers goes back
millennia, but many of the dwarf clans of Dongun Hold
have their own take on the tradition, with promising
young gunsmiths claiming their adulthood by crafting
a specialized personal firearm using the clan’s unique
smithing traditions. Losing or being forced to surrender
their clan pistol is a terrible embarrassment for the
dwarves that carry them.
Coat Pistol: This small pistol is easily concealed inside
a jacket or some other article of clothing. Rarely kept as
a primary weapon, coat pistols are equally favored by
clever assassins and traveling Alkenstar aristocrats.
Double-Barreled Musket: This flintlock breech-loader
has two side-by-side barrels. Though less accurate
than a standard musket, a double-barreled musket
offers versatility in firing options. Many of Alkenstar’s
famous shield marshals save their earnings to buy a
double-barreled musket as their first personal firearm.
Double-Barreled Pistol: This flintlock pistol has two
side-by-side barrels. Though less accurate than a standard
pistol, a double-barreled pistol is a useful and versatile
weapon. It’s generally banned in areas where duels with
pistols are relatively common, in much the same way that
arriving at an aristocratic duel with a scattergun would
be considered crass, at best.
Dragon-Mouth Pistol: Similar to the blunderbuss,
a dragon-mouth pistol fires pellets from a flared
barrel. Though less powerful than a blunderbuss, the
dragon-mouth pistol is appreciated for its portability
and one-handed design. Though the name was coined
because of the destructive belch of this handheld scatter
weapon, many gunsmiths craft dragon-mouth pistols
with elaborate embellishments that resemble a stylized
dragon’s maw framing the barrel.
Dueling Pistol: Made for settling disputes when
diplomacy fails, dueling pistols are finely crafted and
made to fit easily into a holster or pocket. Noble and
wealthy merchants in both Alkenstar and Dongun Hold
often own matching pairs of dueling pistols in case
they’re called upon to address a challenge—though this
practice has become increasingly rare in the modern age.
MISFIRES
Firearms that are improperly maintained or subjected to
unusual strain can misfire. If you attempt to fire a firearm
that was fired the previous day or earlier and hasn’t been
cleaned since then, roll a DC 5 flat check before making
your attack roll. If you fail this misfire check, the weapon
misfires and jams. The attack is an automatic critical
failure, and you must use an Interact action to clear the
jam before you can reload the weapon and fire again.
Once you have spent at least an hour cleaning a weapon,
you don’t need to roll for a misfire until the next day
unless an effect says otherwise. You can clean multiple
firearms during this hour, up to a reasonable limit as
determined by the GM (typically no more than five).
Some abilities cause a weapon to misfire as part of
their effects. If such a misfire happens as a result of an
attack (due to an action that causes a misfire on a failed
attack, for example), it retroactively makes the attack a
critical failure.
152
152
