Introduction
Gears
Characters
Gears
Equipment
Guns
Characters
Guns
Equipment
The Rotating
Gear
Glossary
And Index
Guns &
GEARS
DUO’S AIM [two-actions]
FEAT 8
ARCHETYPE
CONCENTRATE
Prerequisites Sniping Duo Dedication
With assistance from your spotter, you aim for an especially
accurate attack. Make a ranged weapon Strike against a foe
either within your spotter’s melee reach or the first range
increment of a ranged weapon your spotter is wielding. On
this Strike, you gain a +2 circumstance bonus to the attack
roll and ignore the target’s concealment. If you’re using a
firearm with the kickback trait, you don’t take the normal
circumstance penalty to this Strike for not having the
required Strength score or firing without using a tripod.
VANTAGE SHOT
FEAT 8
ARCHETYPE
Prerequisites Sniping Duo Dedication
You and your spotter take advantage of each other’s attacks
to momentarily hide and throw your foes off-balance against
your follow-up attack. When you successfully make a
ranged Strike against a foe, your spotter can use a reaction
to attempt a Stealth check against the foe’s Perception DC.
On a success, the foe is flat-footed against the spotter’s next
attack before the end of your spotter’s next turn. Similarly,
when your spotter successfully makes a ranged Strike
against a foe, you can use a reaction to attempt a Stealth
check against the foe’s Perception DC. On a success, the foe
is flat-footed against your next attack against them before
the end of your next turn.
TAG TEAM [reaction]
FEAT 10
ARCHETYPE
Prerequisites Sniping Duo Dedication
Trigger You or your spotter misses with a Strike against
a creature, and the creature is within the other’s melee
reach or first range increment.
Your skilled teamwork with your spotter enables you both
to assist one another when you falter, using either other’s
failures as opportunities to strike. If you used Tag Team after
your spotter missed the triggering Strike, make a ranged
Strike against the same target with a –2 penalty. If you used
this reaction after you missed the triggering Strike, your
spotter can use their reaction to make a melee or ranged
Strike against the same target. Strikes granted by this feat
don’t count toward your or your spotter’s multiple attack
penalty and your or your spotter’s multiple attack penalty
doesn’t apply to the granted Strike.
EAGLE EYES
FEAT 12
ARCHETYPE
AUDITORY
VISUAL
Prerequisites Sniping Duo Dedication
You and your spotter are adept at watching out for one
another. As long as you can see or hear each other, neither
of you is flat-footed to hidden, undetected, or flanking
creatures of your level or lower, or to creatures of your level
or lower using a surprise attack. However, they can still help
their allies flank.
CONCENTRATED ASSAULT
FEAT 14
ARCHETYPE
Prerequisites Sniping Duo Dedication
You and your spotter combine your efforts to bring down your
target. If you and your spotter both use the Ready activity
to make a Strike against the same opponent and choose the
same trigger for the readied action, resolve your attacks at
the same time. Each of you can use the higher of the two
attack rolls for your Strikes, each using your own modifier;
this is a fortune effect. If both attacks are successful, total
the damage for both attacks for the purpose of resistances
and weaknesses.
CHOOSING A SPOTTER
The most important aspect when choosing a spotter
for the sniping duo archetype is the out of character
component; make sure you team up with another
player who is excited about the idea of roleplaying
out teamwork and coordination in combat, and with
granting you benefits and gaining benefits from you. The
mechanics of the archetype are not very demanding of
your spotter’s actions, but that still doesn’t mean every
player is interested in the narrative component.
Mechanically, a good spotter is likely either another
ranged attacker or a melee attacker, and depending
on the type of spotter you choose, certain feats might
become more or less enticing. For instance, Targeted
Redirection is more useful with a melee spotter.
139
139
