GLOSSARY AND INDEX
acid (trait) Effects with this trait deal acid damage. Creatures
with this trait have a magical connection to acid.
agile (weapon trait) The multiple attack penalty you take
with this weapon on the second attack on your turn is
–4 instead of –5, and –8 instead of –10 on the third and
subsequent attacks in the turn. CR 282
air (trait) Effects with the air trait either
manipulate or conjure air. Those
that manipulate air have no effect
in a vacuum or an area without air.
Creatures with this trait consist
primarily of air or have a magical
connection to that element.
alchemical (trait) Alchemical items
are powered by reactions of
alchemical reagents. Alchemical
items aren’t magical and don’t
radiate a magical aura.
ammunition (magic item) 168–171,
CR 559–561, APG 256–259
ancestry A broad family of
people that a creature belongs to.
Each player character chooses an ancestry as the first
step of character creation. CR 32–59, APG 6–47
arcane (trait) This magic comes from the arcane tradition,
which is built on logic and rationality. Anything with this
trait is magical. A creature with this trait is primarily
constituted of or has a strong connection to arcane magic.
archetype (trait) This feat belongs to an archetype.
attached (weapon trait) An attached weapon
must be combined with another piece of
gear to be used. The trait lists what
type of item the weapon must be
attached to. You must be wielding
or wearing the item the weapon is
attached to in order to attack with
it. For example, shield spikes are attached
to a shield, allowing you to attack with
the spikes instead of a shield bash, but only if
you’re wielding the shield. An attached weapon is usually
bolted onto or built into the item it’s attached to, and
typically an item can have only one weapon attached to
it. An attached weapon can be affixed to an item with
10 minutes of work and a successful DC 10 Crafting
check; this includes the time needed to remove the
weapon from a previous item, if necessary. If an item is
destroyed, its attached weapon can usually be salvaged.
auditory (trait) Auditory actions and effects rely on sound.
An action with the auditory trait can be successfully
performed only if the creature using the action can
speak or otherwise produce the required sounds. A spell
or effect with the auditory trait has its effect only if the
target can hear it. This applies only to sound-based parts
of the effect, as determined by the GM. This is different
from a sonic effect, which
still affects targets who can’t
hear it (such as deaf targets)
as long as the effect itself
makes sound.
aura (trait) An aura is an emanation
that continually ebbs out from you,
affecting creatures within a certain radius.
Aura can also refer to the magical signature of
an item or a creature with a strong alignment.
automaton (trait) Automatons are living constructs
sustained by a magical core. 36, 212–216
background CR 60, APG 48–51
backstabber (weapon trait) When you hit a flat-footed
creature, this weapon deals 1 precision damage in
addition to its normal damage. The precision damage
increases to 2 if the weapon is a +3 weapon.
backswing (weapon trait) You can use the momentum from
a missed attack with this weapon to lead into your next
attack. After missing with this weapon on your turn, you
gain a +1 circumstance bonus to your next attack with
this weapon before the end of your turn.
basic spellcasting benefits These benefits are granted by
spellcasting archetypes. CR 219
black powder black powder is used to create ammunition for
firearms and other explosive weapons, like cannons. 169
bomb (trait) An alchemical bomb combines volatile
alchemical components that explode when the bomb
hits a creature or object. Most alchemical bombs deal
damage, though some produce other effects.
bulk A value indicating an item’s size,
weight, and general awkwardness. 10
items of light Bulk equal 1 Bulk, and
1,000 coins are 1 Bulk. A character
becomes encumbered if they carry Bulk
greater than 5 + their Strength modifier,
and they can’t carry more than 10 +
their Strength modifier. CR 29, 271–272
capacity (weapon trait) Weapons that
have the capacity trait typically have
multiple barrels or chambers capable of
containing a round of ammunition. Capacity is
always accompanied by a number indicating the
number of barrels or chambers. After a capacity
weapon is fired, you can select the next loaded barrel
or chamber as an Interact action that doesn’t require a
free hand. Each barrel or chamber can be reloaded after
it’s fired as a separate Interact action. 150
chaotic (trait) Chaotic effects often manipulate energy
from chaos-aligned Outer Planes and are anathema
230
230
