The advent of black powder is beginning to offer
a new sort of weapon to warriors in Golarion, one
that isn’t dependent on the physical strength of the
wielder. Siege weapons like ballistae and trebuchets
create tremendous force at a distance with the efforts
of multiple operators, allowing for destructive power
to rival even mighty spellcasters. Black powder siege
weapons take the potential of such machines of war
and amplify it to the next level, adding explosive power
to the cooperative efforts of the crew. In addition to the
force of the black powder ignition itself, black powder
siege weapons are able to funnel and direct the energy
through a reinforced barrel or muzzle in ways torsion
and counterweights cannot, increasing the accuracy,
range, and impact of the weapon.
Siege weapons of all kinds operate largely the same
way whether they incorporate black powder in their
design or not. The Aiming, Loading, Launching, and
Move Siege Weapon actions are all identical to the
rules found on page 72. The most notable change is
the chance of misfire; just like a firearm, improper use,
inadequate cleaning, and a number of other factors
BLACK POWDER SIEGE WEAPONS
can lead to deficiencies in a piece of artillery. The
construction of the weapons and ammunition are also
more expensive and harder to find due to the more
advanced makeup.
SIEGE WEAPON MISFIRE
Just as personal firearms require a meticulous regimen
of proper care and cleaning to operate at peak
performance, black powder siege weapons must be
properly maintained on a regular basis to avoid the risk
of terrible consequences that might otherwise befall
those who use them. If you attempt to fire a black
powder siege weapon that was used or assembled prior
to the current day and hasn’t been properly cleaned and
maintained since the last time it was used or assembled,
you must attempt a DC 5 flat check before making your
attack roll, risking misfire on a failure. A black powder
siege weapon can also potentially misfire as a result of
using a specific ability or due to using an unreliable
black powder siege weapon with the cobbled trait, such
as a siege weapon created at the risky pirate volcano
foundry known as the Motaku Ironworks.
172
172
