KEY TERMS
You’ll see the following key terms in several archetypes.
Flourish: Actions with this trait are special techniques
that require too much exertion for you to perform
frequently. You can use only 1 action with the flourish
trait per turn.
Stance: A stance is a general combat strategy that
you enter by using an action with the stance trait, and
you remain in it for some time. A stance lasts until you’re
knocked unconscious, until its requirements (if any) are
violated, until the encounter ends, or until you enter
a new stance, whichever comes first. After you take
an action with the stance trait, you can’t take another
one for 1 round. You can enter or be in a stance only in
encounter mode.
ARCHETYPES
While gunslingers are especially known for using firearms,
various other sorts of characters use them too, and you
might find the gunslinger class isn’t the perfect fit for your
character concept. Archetypes allow you to expand the
scope of your character’s class.
Applying an archetype requires you to select
archetype feats instead of class feats. Start by finding the
archetype that best fits your character concept and select
the archetype’s dedication feat using one of your class
feat choices. Once you have the dedication feat, you can
select any feat from that archetype in place of a class
feat as long as you meet its prerequisites. The archetype
feat you select is still subject to any selection restrictions
on the class feat it replaces. For example, if you gained
an ability at 6th level that granted you a 4th-level class
feat with the dwarf trait, you could swap out that class
feat only for an archetype feat of 4th level or lower with
the dwarf trait. Archetype feats you gain in place of a
class feat are called archetype class feats.
Occasionally, an archetype feat works like a skill
feat instead of a class feat. These archetype feats have
the skill trait, and you select them in place of a skill
feat, otherwise following the same rules above. These
are not archetype class feats (for instance, to determine
the number of Hit Points you gain from the Fighter
Resiliency archetype feat).
Each archetype’s dedication feat represents a certain
portion of your character’s time and focus, so once you
select a dedication feat for an archetype, you must satisfy
its requirements before you can gain another dedication
feat. Typically, you satisfy an archetype dedication feat
by gaining a certain number of feats from the archetype’s
list. You can’t retrain a dedication feat as long as you
have any other feats from that archetype.
Sometimes an archetype feat lets you gain another
feat, such as the alchemist’s basic concoction feat. You
must always meet the prerequisites of the feat you gain
in this way.
Additional Feats
Some archetypes allow other feats beyond those in their
entry. These are typically class feats, such as fighter
feats that represent certain combat styles. The list of
additional feats includes the feat’s name, level, and the
page number where it appears. You can take the feat
as an archetype feat of that level, meaning it counts
toward the number of feats required by the archetype’s
dedication feat. When selected this way, a feat that
normally has a class trait doesn’t have that class trait.
Multiclass Archetypes
Archetypes with the multiclass trait represent diversifying
your training into another class’s specialties. You can’t
select a multiclass archetype’s dedication feat if you’re a
member of the class of the same name (for instance, a
fighter can’t select the Fighter Dedication feat).
Guns Archetype List
The following archetypes each allow you to build a
character with strong ties to gears and gadgets.
•	 The gunslinger multiclass archetype (page 127)
adds some gunslinger options to characters of any
other class.
•	 The artillerist archetype (page 128) launches powerful
attacks from siege weapons and heavy artillery.
•	 The beast gunner archetype (page 130) forms a
mystic bond with a powerful beast gun, gaining
spells and magical abilities in the process.
•	 The bullet dancer archetype (page 132) performs
a unique form of martial arts focusing on various
uses of firearms.
•	 The demolitionist archetype (page 133) sets
explosives that trap foes and demolish edifices.
•	 The fireworks technician archetype (page 134)
launches fireworks for a variety of interesting
special effects.
•	 The pistol phenom archetype (page 136) combines
flashy pistol work with a powerful personality to
take control of any situation.
•	 The sniping duo archetype (page 138) teams up with
a spotter of their choice in order to gain benefits
helping both the sniper and their spotter.
•	 The spellshot class archetype (page 140) adds
magical options to the gunslinger class.
•	 The unexpected sharpshooter archetype (page 142)
is either incredibly lucky or secretly extremely
skilled. Whichever is the truth, such a character
always seems to hit their targets and dodge attacks
as if propelled forward by some uncanny power.
126
126
