Introduction
Gears
Gears
Equipment
Gunslingers
and
Shootists
Guns and
Black
Powder
Equipment
Guns and
Gears on
Golarion
Glossary
and Index
Guns &
GEARS
CLOCKWORK CHIRPER
SNARE 3
UNCOMMON
AUDITORY CLOCKWORK
CONSUMABLE MECHANICAL SNARE
TRAP
Price 8 gp
This simple clockwork bird is no larger than a sparrow,
designed to be wound up and perched on a tree branch or
ledge. The Tiny clockwork remains immobile and silent until a
Small or larger creature enters the square beneath its perch,
at which point it springs into action. Once activated, it flies
around making a loud chirping sound that can be heard up
to 500 feet away. The bird then follows the creature that
activated it for up to one hour or until it is destroyed, doing
its best to stay just above the creature and out of reach,
and continuing its string of loud chirps. The bird is an object
with a Speed 10 feet, and a fly Speed of 25 feet. It has AC 15,
Hardness 5, HP 10 (BT 5) and object immunities. Once broken,
it can no longer fly. It can’t attack or otherwise damage other
creatures. After an hour has passed after its activation, the
clockwork chirper falls into a pile of useless components.
CLOCKWORK MONKEY
SNARE 2
UNCOMMON
AUDITORY CLOCKWORK
CONSUMABLE MECHANICAL SNARE
TRAP
Price 5 gp
These cute and unassuming toy monkeys are often dressed in
loud clothing and carry a percussion instrument. It’s activated
once a creature moves adjacent to the square it sits in, at
which point it leaps on the creature, scurrying about on its
agile hind legs while it pounds on its instrument, riding the
creature and raising a racket. The creature being assaulted by
the monkey must find a way to escape its agitator either via
flinging the monkey off with the Escape action (DC 18) or by
breaking the monkey. The monkey has AC 19, Hardness 2, HP
10 (BT 5) and object immunities.
DEATH COIL
SNARE 20
RARE
CONSUMABLE
ELECTRICITY
MECHANICAL
SNARE
TRAP
Price 9,000 gp
This modified Stasian coil of metal and glass stands about
three feet tall. It activates when at least three creatures are
within 20 feet of it, or if at least one creature stays within
20 feet of it for more than 1 round. It then lashes out with a
torrent of electrical energy dealing 7d12 electricity damage
to all creatures within 20 feet of it. Due to the fact that it
doesn’t trigger immediately when a creature enters its square,
abilities like Surprise Snare (Advanced
Player’s Guide 194) don’t work with
a death coil. Creatures within that
area must attempt a DC 43 Fortitude
saving throw.
Critical Success The creature is
unaffected.
Success The creature takes half
damage.
Failure The creature takes full damage
and is stunned 2.
Critical Failure The creature takes double damage
is stunned 4.
DETONATING GEARS SNARE
SNARE 3
AUDITORY
CLOCKWORK
CONSUMABLE MECHANICAL SNARE
TRAP
Price 12 gp
This snare uses clockwork stressed almost to the breaking
point, which activates with a powerful explosion that deals
3d8 piercing damage to the first creature entering the snare’s
square. The creature must attempt a DC 19 Reflex saving
throw.
Critical Success The creature is unaffected.
Success The creature takes half damage.
Failure The creature takes full damage and 3 persistent bleed
damage.
Critical Failure The creature takes double damage and 6
persistent bleed damage.
FLAME DRAKE SNARE
SNARE 5
UNCOMMON
CLOCKWORK
CONSUMABLE
FIRE
MECHANICAL SNARE
TRAP
Price 25 gp
The snare takes the form of a Tiny, drake‑like
clockwork toy. When a creature enters
its square the snare activates, causing the
drake to spit a gout of fire in a 15-foot cone in
the direction from which the creature entered.
For instance, if a creature entered the square
coming from the east, the cone would
point east, to hit any allies behind the
triggering creature. Those within the
cone must succeed a DC 19 basic Reflex
save or take 6d6 fire damage. After spitting its fire,
the snare falls apart.
DANGEROUS TOYS
A fair number of clockwork snares take the form of toys
and curiosities. In fact, many were initially developed
by enterprising toymakers who sought to create an
interesting toy and accidentally invented something with
lethal potential. Pranksters, criminals, revolutionaries,
and even other inventors then sought out these designs,
made improvements, and unleashed them as snares.
Devious kobolds and gnomes in particular take great joy
in the use of their deadly little “gifts,” and the worst of
them are always looking for new innocuous disguises for
their dangerous playthings.
It’s rumored that various toymakers in Absalom
meet at least once a season in an undisclosed location
in the city to demonstrate their new designs to various
creators of snares and sell their base formulas to the
highest bidders. Once sold, these designs are repurposed
into destructive snares. The only restrictions toymakers
place on these illicit auctions are that their formulas
can’t be used to fabricate actual toys, and the outward
appearances of the snares must be substantially different
from the toys on which the mechanisms are based.
79
79
Death Coil
