Overwatch
With a stalwart mind and sharp eyes, you observe the
battlefield as though you and your allies are pieces on
a chessboard. By predicting dangers and hazards and
offering your insights to your comrades, you win battles
through keen observation and teamwork. Whenever
there’s a threat or opening, you’re the first to point it
out, and you’re ready to help your allies directly when
necessary.
As a group’s overwatch, you might let the position go
to your head. In such cases, you might think of yourself as
the mastermind behind the chessboard and feel detached
from your allies, thinking of them as little more than
pawns on the field.
But more likely your role allows you to feel a deeper
connection to your allies, and your coordination and
heroics stand out most when you subsume your individual
ego to serve the group’s needs. In that case, you might
think of yourself as a part of a functional whole—if your
party was a single living body, you serve as the eyes, but
that doesn’t mean you’re the brain, the heart, or other
vital organs. Everyone has a crucial role to play.
OVERWATCH DEDICATION
FEAT 2
UNCOMMON
ARCHETYPE
DEDICATION
Prerequisites expert in Perception
You have an innate knack for tactical observation, and you’ve
innovated to apply that knack in a variety of ways that
allow you to assist your allies. With the help of enhanced
visual gear (such as a specially modified telescope, goggled
visor, or binoculars), you’re keenly aware of the movement
of combatants on the battlefield. You quickly and efficiently
disperse that information to your nearby allies so they can use
it to direct their own observations and reactions to danger.
You’re surrounded by an overwatch field aura in a 30-foot
emanation. Your overwatch field aura grants you increased
perception and allows you to call out warnings to your allies
within the aura to point out threats. This aura has the auditory
and visual traits. You and allies within your overwatch field
receive a +2 circumstance bonus when using Perception for
Initiative checks.
Special You can’t select another dedication feat until
after you have gained at least two other feats from the
overwatch archetype.
SPYGLASS MODIFICATION
FEAT 4
ARCHETYPE
Prerequisites Overwatch Dedication
Your enhanced visual gear includes a regulating scope and
reflectors, combined in an ingenuous setup that allows you
to see around corners within the area of your overwatch
field. This permits your overwatch field to extend around
a single corner or turn and allows you to see around that
corner as well. This ability doesn’t let you see through
walls or other barriers. You can’t use it to see around
a second or further corner, and it doesn’t allow you
to make ranged attacks or perform other actions that
require line of effect with your target.
SWIFT INTERVENTION [reaction]
FEAT 6
ARCHETYPE
Prerequisites Overwatch Dedication
Trigger An ally within your overwatch field fails in their
attempt to Arrest a Fall, Balance, Grab a Ledge, or
Maneuver in Flight.
Requirements You are wielding a ranged weapon.
You’re burdened with noticing potential threats at all times.
Because of this, you’ve learned that a well-placed shot can
prevent disaster. You make a shot to either pin an ally’s
clothing to stop a fall or secure them against a ledge, or you
bounce an attack off their armor to correct their course as
they stumble while attempting to balance or fly.
Make a single ranged attack roll against the DC of the
triggering check; your ally uses the result of your ranged
attack roll in place of their original roll. You must have line of
effect to your ally, and your attack roll includes any normal
bonuses or penalties for a ranged attack with that weapon
(such as the penalty for making a ranged attack beyond your
first range increment).
50
50
