Introduction
Gears
Characters
Gears
Equipment
Guns
Characters
Guns
Equipment
The Rotating
Gear
Glossary
And Index
Guns &
GEARS
Gunslinger Feats
At every level that you gain a gunslinger feat, you can
select one of the following feats. You must satisfy any
prerequisites before selecting the feat.
1ST LEVEL
BLAST LOCK [one-action]
FEAT 1
ATTACK
GUNSLINGER
Requirements You’re wielding a loaded firearm.
Sometimes taking the shortest distance between two points
involves removing an obstacle or two. You shoot your firearm
at a lock within 10 feet. Make an attack roll against the DC
required to Pick the Lock.
Critical Success You open the lock, or you achieve two
successes toward opening a complex lock.
Success You open the lock, or you achieve one success toward
opening a complex lock.
Failure You fail to open the lock, and your shot makes it harder
to open. Future attempts to Pick the Lock or Blast the Lock
take a –2 circumstance penalty.
Critical Failure You fail to open the lock, and your shot makes
it much harder to open. Future attempts to Pick the Lock or
Blast the Lock take a –4 circumstance penalty.
COVER FIRE [one-action]
FEAT 1
GUNSLINGER
Frequency once per round
Requirements You’re wielding a loaded firearm or crossbow.
You lay down suppressive fire to protect allies by forcing
foes to take cover from your wild attacks. Make a firearm or
crossbow Strike; the target must decide before you roll your
attack whether it will duck out of the way. If the target ducks,
it gains a +2 circumstance bonus to AC against your attack, or
a +4 circumstance bonus to AC if it has cover. It also takes a
–2 circumstance penalty to ranged attack rolls until the end of
its next turn. If the target chooses not to duck, you gain a +1
circumstance bonus to your attack roll for that Strike.
CROSSBOW CRACK SHOT
FEAT 1
GUNSLINGER
You have a deep understanding of the crossbow. When you’re
wielding a crossbow and Interact to reload it, including
Interact actions as part of your slinger’s reload and similar
effects, you gain a +2 circumstance bonus to the damage roll
on your next Strike with that crossbow. As normal, this isn’t
cumulative with the +1 circumstance bonus from singular
expertise. If the crossbow is a simple crossbow, also increase
the damage die size for that attack by one step. You must
make the attack before the end of your turn or these benefits
are lost.
DUAL-WEAPON RELOAD [one-action]
FEAT 1
GUNSLINGER
Requirements You’re wielding two one-handed weapons, each
in a different hand, one of which is a ranged weapon.
You carry your ammunition in a way that allows you to
reload while holding two weapons. You Interact to reload
a one‑handed ranged weapon you’re holding. Unlike most
Interact actions, you don’t need a free hand to reload your
ranged weapon in this way.
HIT THE DIRT! [reaction]
FEAT 1
GUNSLINGER
Trigger A creature you can see attempts a ranged Strike
against you.
You fling yourself out of harm’s way. You Leap. Your movement
gives you a +2 circumstance bonus to AC against the triggering
attack. Regardless of whether or not the triggering attack hits,
you land prone after completing your Leap.
MUNITIONS CRAFTER
FEAT 1
GUNSLINGER
Bullets and bombs can be scarce in some parts, so you’ve
learned to make your own. You become trained in Crafting
and gain the alchemist’s infused reagents class feature (Core
Rulebook 72), gaining a number of reagents each day equal to
your level. You also gain the Alchemical Crafting feat and four
additional formulas for 1st-level alchemical items.
You gain infused reagents (a pool of reagents usable to make
alchemical items) and advanced alchemy (allowing you to make
alchemical items during your daily preparations without the
normal cost or time expenditure). You gain batches of infused
reagents per day equal to your level, which you can use to
create only bombs or alchemical ammunition. Your advanced
alchemy level for creating these is 1 and doesn’t increase on
its own. If you use a batch of infused reagents to create basic
level-0 ammunition such as black powder cartridges or black
powder doses, you produce 10 rounds of ammunition.
SWORD AND PISTOL
FEAT 1
GUNSLINGER
You’re comfortable wielding a firearm or crossbow in one hand
and a melee weapon in the other, combining melee attacks
with shots from the firearm. When you make a successful
ranged Strike against an enemy within your reach with your
one-handed firearm or one-handed crossbow, that enemy is
flat-footed against your next melee attack with a one-handed
melee weapon.
When you make a successful melee Strike against an enemy
with your one-handed melee weapon, the next ranged Strike
you make against that enemy with a one-handed firearm or
one-handed crossbow doesn’t trigger reactions that would
trigger on a ranged attack but not a melee attack, such as
Attack of Opportunity. Either of these benefits is lost if not
used by the end of your next turn.
2ND LEVEL
DEFENSIVE ARMAMENTS
FEAT 2
GUNSLINGER
You use bulky firearms or crossbows to shield your body
111
111
