Introduction
Gears
Characters
Gears
Equipment
Guns
Characters
Guns
Equipment
The Rotating
Gear
Glossary
And Index
Guns &
GEARS
NET LAUNCHER
ITEM 1
RARE
Price 16 gp
Usage held in 2 hands; Bulk 1
This wide, hollow tube is two to three feet long and fires an
unattached net at much greater range than one can be thrown.
A net launcher can be wielded while propped up on your
shoulder or cradled under your arm. A net must be carefully
folded to be launched without tangling. Properly loading a
net into a net launcher takes 1 minute. A net fired with a net
launcher can target a Medium or smaller creature within 40
feet, rather than 20 feet.
WIND-UP WINGS
ITEM 3+
RARE
CLOCKWORK
Usage attached to a thrown weapon; Bulk —
These delicate clockwork wings enable thrown weapons to
soar through the air at high speeds, performing turns and
other aerial maneuvers midflight. Wind-up wings also have
different types of special effects depending on the type.
Wind-up wings must be attached to a thrown weapon and
wound to function. A thrown weapon with an attached set of
wind-up wings can’t have anything else attached to it, or the
wings cease to function.
Attaching or detaching a pair of wind-up wings to a
thrown weapon requires a repair kit, and the process takes
10 minutes. Winding an attached pair of wind-up wings takes
three Interact actions. There are a variety of wind-up wings,
with different effects.
Type flutterback wind-up wings; Level 3; Price 50 gp
When you make a thrown Strike with the weapon to which a
pair of flutterback wind-up wings are attached, and the wings
are wound, the wings fly the weapon back to your hand after
the Strike is complete. If your hands are full when the weapon
returns, the wings hover in place three feet above the ground.
At the end of your turn, the wings are wound down; they don’t
function again until wound. If you aren’t holding the weapon
when the flutterback wind-up wings become wound down, the
weapon falls to the ground.
Type homing wind-up wings; Level 12; Price 1,800 gp
When you make a thrown Strike with the weapon to which a
pair of homing wind-up wings are attached, and the wings are
wound, the wings seek out your target, flying through cover
and avoiding obstacles. You ignore the target’s concealed
condition and reduce the target’s cover by one step (lesser
cover to no cover, standard cover to lesser cover, or greater
cover to standard cover). After the Strike is complete, the
wings are wound down; they don’t function again until wound.
65
65
