Introduction
Gears
Characters
Gears
Equipment
Guns
Characters
Guns
Equipment
The Rotating
Gear
Glossary
And Index
Guns &
GEARS
Unafraid to ruthlessly pillage black powder technology
to get what they wanted, the pirates of the Shackles
became one of the first groups to gain enough access to
the new firearms coming from Alkenstar’s Gunworks
to truly embrace them. A typical Free Captain controls
a single vessel, often a small cutter or sloop, and if
they’re lucky, they might have replaced some of their
ballistas and catapults with cannons. Those with more
renown command larger vessels, or even multiple ships.
This advantage comes with an increased dependence on
supplies: cannons without powder are just ballast. The
increased use of guns has forced these captains to find
adequate amounts of powder, shot, and well-trained crew
to keep their vessel properly armed.
The first firearms in the Shackles were flintlocks and
pistols—the result of sporadic robberies, smuggling, and
black-market deals. While firearms could be carried by
individual members of a ship’s crew, they were initially
seen as a weak pirate’s folly. As gunpowder weapons
became more widely available through more daring raids,
personal firearms were eventually, grudgingly accepted as
valid weapons. As decades passed, they became the ranged
weapon of choice for most pirates across the region—
though incendiary risks have many pirates sticking to
bows. Despite the ever-present danger of fire on a ship,
pirates find that the noise, smoke, and confusion generated
by a gun battle provides an advantage in the pursuit of
murder and looting.
Compared to firearms, heavy guns such as cannons were
much trickier to steal and thus didn’t appear in the Shackles
until recently. Several Free Captains somehow managed
to get their hands on a few and began arming their ships
with cannons instead of ballistas or scatterguns. The
Chelaxian navy eventually captured one of these vessels
and slowly adopted the weaponry for itself, concentrating
its few cannon-armed ships in small, elite, anti-pirate
flotillas scouring the Arcadian Ocean. As time went on and
both sides saw increased cannon usage, individual ship
skirmishes became far bloodier and more decisive, usually
ending in the complete destruction of one ship or the other.
THE SHACKLES:
CANNONS AND NAVAL BATTLES
217
217
