on Golarion in comparison to Earth, the influence of
alchemy on Golarion’s technology can’t be understated.
In addition to enabling the creation of elemental weapons,
such as alchemist’s fire and bottled lightning, alchemical
techniques have often been applied to a variety of other
fields and industries. Alchemical treatments for armor
can create stronger materials; alchemical distillations
allow for a variety of different forms and potencies in
black powder; alchemy and the people who practice it
even influence the most basic of needs, like preserving
volatile substances for transport.
Much like firearms, alchemy is something of an
everyman’s tool, usable by most anyone who can get
their hands on its components without requiring the
specialized training or unique bloodlines of wizards and
sorcerers. A single alchemist who makes their home in
a community can quickly improve the quality of
life for everyone there, reducing death by
disease, improving the community’s ability
to defend itself from outside threats,
and providing other benefits both
large and small. While it stands
as a distinct science of its own,
alchemy inextricably has ties
to black powder weapons and
other technologies of Golarion,
enabling the development of
sturdier metals and more volatile
explosives to allow creations on a grand
scale. For example, while steam technology is
extremely new on Golarion, steam engines
are much more likely to use alchemically
derived heat sources than the coal
furnaces used in our world.
TECHNOLOGY IN GOLARION
TODAY
Over the last two decades,
Golarion, and especially the
Inner Sea region comprised
of
the
continent
of
Avistan and the northern
portion of the continent
of Garund, have been beset by
catastrophe after catastrophe. Armies
of demons pouring forth from a wound
in the world itself, time‑displaced wizards
inciting chaos to restore their faded glory,
armies of giants and hobgoblins, and an
evil lich leading undead hordes have all
assaulted the people of Golarion and set
them reeling time and time again. While
these events have delayed certain
technological
advancements,
they
have
spurred
others.
Firearms are more prevalent in Golarion than they’ve
ever been before, and artificers in Varisia, Absalom,
and northern Garund constantly create new devices
both wondrous and terrible. Golarion stands on a cusp,
with alchemy prominent, clockworks poised to expand,
and steam-powered technology just entering its early
days of exciting innovation. These technologies may be
limited in their spread now but are positioned to bring
great change and advancement to Golarion. That isn’t a
guarantee, however. These advancements might all come
crashing down if the forces that seek the dissolution of
science and social cohesion have their way. Fortunately,
Golarion is also a world where heroes inevitably rise
up to face such challenges and take action to secure a
future of limitless possibility.
MODULARITY
As mentioned at the beginning of this introduction, Guns
& Gears has been organized so that you can use as
much, or as little, of the book as
is appropriate for your game
world. While some obvious
elements can help make this
intent apparent, such as the border art
changing between the Gears “book,” Guns
“book,” and The Rotating Gear “book,”
we’ve taken other steps as well that might not
be immediately obvious. Vehicles and siege
weapons, which can be fun and engaging
rules but might not be an appropriate fit for
all campaigns, each have their own separate
section. The firearms section is divided
between “Classic Firearms” and “Fantasy
Firearms,” so that if your preferred
setting has smooth-bore black powder
weapons as the technological “ceiling,”
you can allow only the classic firearms
in your campaign. If your high fantasy
setting blends the highlights of Earth’s
renaissance with fantastical or outright
magical
technology,
like
firearms
that
transform into swords or axes, or gun-like
weapons made from the taxidermic bodies
of supernatural creatures, you can add
those fantasy firearms to your game as well.
With all the possible permutations of a
fantasy world, we’ve endeavored to create
a book that speaks to as many people and
settings as possible, allowing people to
include the storytelling elements they most
enjoy without feeling overly pressured
to
include
those
that
negatively
impact their immersion or gaming
experience. Whether you want to play
a swashbuckling pirate with a black
powder pistol or a ysoki engineer
with a tesla coil backpack that
8
Alkenstar Scout
