Introduction
Gears
Gears
Equipment
Gunslingers
and
Shootists
Guns and
Black
Powder
Equipment
Guns and
Gears on
Golarion
Glossary
and Index
Guns &
GEARS
horse or other creature built for speed. Speedsters are built
to maintain a rapid pace that can become even faster for brief
periods of time by releasing stored up steam pressure for an
extra burst of speed.
Space 10 feet long, 5 feet wide, 5 feet high
Crew 1 pilot; Passengers 1
Piloting Check Driving Lore (DC 27) or Crafting (DC 29)
AC 23; Fort +19
Hardness 15; HP 130 (BT 65); Immunities object immunities
Speed 50 feet (alchemical, clockwork)
Collision 7d10 (DC 27)
Speed Boost [one-action] The pilot releases built up pressure in the
speedster’s alchemical steam engine in order to temporarily
increase its speed. For 1d4 rounds, the speedster’s Speed
becomes 80 feet and all move actions the pilot takes gain
the reckless trait. When the pilot takes an action that
already would have the reckless trait, the pilot uses the
degree of success one worse than the one they rolled on the
piloting check. The speedster can’t use Speed Boost again
for 1 hour, as the pressure requires time to rebuild.
Streamlined This lightweight vehicle has no additional storage
space for cargo.
Wind-Up 10 minutes of wind-up, 2 hours of operational time,
DC 28, standby
APPARATUS OF THE OCTOPUS
VEHICLE 11
UNCOMMON
LARGE
Price 4,000 gp
This apparatus, which is shaped like an octopus (or more
rarely, a squid or other aquatic creature), uses almost entirely
magical propulsion. Clockwork parts make up the controls and
mechanisms to improve some of the functionality, but magic
moves the vehicles’ cogs and gears. While it needs only a pilot,
it can optionally hold a second crew member, which can be
useful if the second crew member controls the apparatus’s
hands or eyes.
Space 10 feet long, 10 feet wide, 5 feet high
Crew 1 pilot; Passengers 1 (the passenger can optionally act as
crew but more crew isn’t necessary)
Piloting Check Driving Lore (DC 28) or Crafting (DC 30)
AC 25; Fort +20
Hardness 15; HP 150 (BT 75); Immunities object immunities
Speed 5 feet, swim 40 feet (clockwork, magical)
Collision 7d10 (DC 28)
Manipulate Hands [two-actions] (Interact) A crew member operates
a lever set up like a joystick, allowing that crew member
to extend and manipulate the apparatus’s hands. While
the hands can’t attack and can’t perform fine actions such
as Disabling a Device, Stealing something, or opening the
97
97
