Introduction
Gears
Characters
Gears
Equipment
Guns
Characters
Guns
Equipment
The Rotating
Gear
Glossary
And Index
Guns &
GEARS
machinists in a terrible spasm of destruction. Its glass
visor smeared with scorched gore and its gauntleted
fists alight with half-broken arcs of sputtering plasma,
the hulking automaton strode out from the workshop,
leaving a trail of boiling blood.
Since then, reputable sightings of the Grobelarch have
been few and far between, and none surviving is sure of
the exact specifics of its capabilities. Every few months,
however, new tales arise of the carnage wrought by
an armor-plated monstrosity with a host of terrible,
haunted visages that rise and sink behind the blank,
blood-smeared glass of its visored face. Some say that
the Grobelarch kills so that it can capture its victims’
vital energy in its own coils, and that it is trying to piece
together enough fragments of stolen consciousness
to find a way out of its misery. If so, the effort seems
doomed to fail, as surely such a creature cannot hope to
capture anything but more violence and pain.
THE VIVISECTIONIST’S SONGBIRDS
Doctor Jerivale of Caliphas, a chirurgeon noted for
her extraordinary surgical skills and slightly unseemly
passion for vivisection, has begun experimenting
with the grafting and implantation of Stasian-derived
technology into living animals. She has created songbirds
whose melodies reverse spirit-singers’ effects to produce
uncanny disturbances of air and ether rather than sound;
dogs with clacking, spiderlike prosthetic legs that run up
walls and across ceilings as easily as flat ground; and
pigeons who bear spoken messages recorded in tiny
metal boxes, rather than written slips of paper.
A few of these animals were sold as pets or scientific
curiosities, and others were lured away by thieves’
gangs hoping to train them for a variety of criminal
uses. As Doctor Jerivale’s animals have become more
widely known, a local druid, Kheseban the Pruner, has
begun inveighing against them as perversions of the
natural order, “machine monstrosities,” and the result of
unforgivable cruelty to animals. The local government
ignored Kheseban, so the druid has resorted to
rabble-rousing on the street instead. These efforts have
borne more fruit, and there is now a real threat that,
with the right spark, a violent mob may assail Doctor
Jerivale’s laboratory.
GALAFRAEL’S LABORATORY
In a crumbling fortress above an insular village in
Versex, the embittered exile Galafrael, once a noble
lady of Lastwall, now sits and plots against the
Whispering Tyrant who destroyed her ancestral land
and slaughtered her family. Galafrael has embraced
Stasian technology as the answer to her quest for
weapons that might be able to destroy Tar-Baphon’s
army and has poured all that remains of her once-great
fortune into buying coils and support equipment, hiring
inventors and engineers, and investing in workshops
that can convert Versex’s natural resources into the
devastating weaponry she seeks.
Those who have visited Galafrael’s laboratory speak
of horrors within. The weapons she has created are
unlike anything seen before, capable of unleashing
utter devastation. Not only are the weapons themselves
terrible, but whispers swirl that Galafrael has allowed
her single-minded obsession with defeating the
Whispering Tyrant to consume her humanity. Porters and
cart-drivers tell of eminent scientists kept as prisoners in
the fortress, locked in workshops where they are bound
to toil on Galafrael’s devices of death. They also say that
captured undead fill the fortress’s ancient dungeons,
awaiting gruesome ends as test subjects—and that when
Galafrael runs low on captured undead, she sometimes
swells her ranks of test subjects by allowing an errant
undead to create spawn from kidnapped peddlers,
refugees, and other unfortunates she deems unlikely to
be missed.
Any attempt to seek justice for these victims—
assuming that the tales are true—is complicated by the
fact that the local magistrate, Elassus Vandershale, owns
several nearby mines that have been made vastly more
profitable by Galafrael’s innovative machinery and the
high prices she’ll pay for good ore. Elassus has made a
fortune from this stroke of luck, and he is not willing to
see it endangered.
DOCTOR OSTREA’S BOX OF DREAMS
The renowned Doctor Sovrok Ostrea, a scholar of
dreams and repressed desires, has invented a device he
calls the “Casket of Unwanted Dreams,” which wraps
Stasian coils around a sleeping patient’s head and
bathes them in a low-intensity, finely calibrated net
of electromagnetic energy. Doctor Sovrok claims his
procedure can pull troubling impulses and recurrent
nightmares from a patient’s mind, safely burying them
in an attached casket so that the patient is never again
disturbed by such dark desires.
The procedure seems to work, in that Doctor Sovrok’s
patients report, with great relief, being freed from all
manner of disturbing obsessions. But the casket does
not destroy their thoughts—it only stores them, and it
is not clear why the doctor keeps them. He claims that
he wishes only to study such obsessions in a harmless,
neutralized context, the better to find more effective
treatments. Yet rumors persist that the doctor is
gathering the information for less benevolent purposes:
that he is selling them to unknowable horrors who feed
on poisonous emotions, refining them into phantasms
of incapacitating dread, and might even seek to unleash
the captured nightmares on new victims someday. These
may very well be true, or perhaps these rumors exist
only because the ever-suspicious citizens of Ustalav find
it difficult to accept that the doctor’s kindness could be
as simple as it appears.
229
229
