Introduction
Gears
Characters
Gears
Equipment
Guns
Characters
Guns
Equipment
The Rotating
Gear
Glossary
And Index
Guns &
GEARS
free-hand (weapon trait) This weapon doesn’t take up
your hand, usually because it’s built into your armor.
A free-hand weapon can’t be Disarmed. You can use
the hand covered by your free-hand weapon to wield
other items, perform manipulate actions, and so on. You
can’t attack with a free-hand weapon if you’re wielding
anything in that hand or otherwise using that hand.
When you’re not wielding anything and not otherwise
using the hand, you can use abilities that require you to
have a hand free as well as those that require you to be
wielding a weapon in that hand. Each of your hands can
have only one free‑hand weapon on it.
gadget (trait) Gadgets are consumable technological
inventions with innovative uses. 66–71
gargantuan (size) This size of creature takes up a space of
at least 20 feet by 20 feet (16 squares on the grid), but
can be much larger. Gargantuan creatures typically have
a reach of 20 feet if they are tall, or 15 feet if they are
long, but larger ones could have a much longer reach.
goblin (trait) A creature with this trait can be one of several
kinds of creature, including goblins, hobgoblins, and
bugbears. Goblins tend to have darkvision. An ability
with this trait can be used or chosen only by goblins.
A weapon with this trait is created and used by goblins.
good (trait) Good effects often manipulate energy from
good-aligned Outer Planes and are antithetical to evil
divine servants or divine servants of evil deities. A creature
with this trait is good in alignment. An ability with this
trait can be selected or used only by good creatures.
gunslinger (class) 105–119
haunt (trait) A hazard with this trait is a spiritual echo,
often of someone with a tragic death. Putting a haunt
to rest often involves resolving the haunt’s unfinished
business. A haunt that hasn’t been properly put to rest
always returns after a time.
healing (trait) A healing effect restores a creature’s body,
typically by restoring Hit Points, but sometimes by
removing diseases or other debilitating effects.
held item (magic item) CR 572–576, APG 260–265
heritage A choice made to further define your ancestry. CR 33
huge (size) A Huge creature takes up a 15-foot-by-15-foot
space (9 squares on the grid). It typically has a reach of 15
feet if the creature is tall or 10 feet if the creature is long.
illusion (trait) Effects and magic items with this trait are
associated with the illusion school of magic, typically
involving false sensory stimuli. CR 298
incapacitation (trait) An ability with this trait can take a
character completely out of the fight or even kill them,
and it’s harder to use on a more powerful character. If a
spell has the incapacitation trait, any creature of more
than twice the spell’s level treats the result of their
check to prevent being incapacitated by the spell as one
degree of success better, or the result of any check the
spellcaster made to incapacitate them as one degree of
success worse. If any other effect has the incapacitation
trait, a creature of higher level than the item, creature,
or hazard generating the effect gains the same benefits.
infused (trait) You create an alchemical item with the
infused trait using your infused reagents, and it has a
limited time before it becomes inert. Any nonpermanent
effects from your infused alchemical items, with the
exception of afflictions such as slow-acting poisons, end
when you make your daily preparations again. CR 72, 75
injection (weapon trait) This weapon can be filled with an
injury poison. Immediately after a successful attack with
the weapon, you can inject the target with the loaded
poison with a single Interact action. Refilling the weapon
with a new substance requires three Interact actions,
and uses both hands. 62
integrated Integrated weapons can replace prostheses or
automaton limbs. 162
intelligent (trait) An item with this trait is intelligent and
has its own will and personality, as well as several
statistics that most items don’t have. Intelligent items
can’t be crafted by normal means, and they are always
rare or unique. GMG 88
inventor (class) 15–33
invested (trait) A character can wear only 10 magical items
that have the invested trait. None of the magical effects
of the item apply if the character hasn’t invested it, nor
can it be activated, though the character still gains any
normal benefits from wearing the physical item (like a
hat keeping rain off their head). CR 531
item An object you carry, hold, or use. Items sometimes
grant an item bonus or penalty to certain checks. CR
270–295, 530–618, APG 246–266
	 adventuring gear 178–184, CR 287–292, APG 248–249
	 combat gear 64–65
	 gadgets 66–71
	 mobility devices 90–91
	 snares 78–81, CR 589–591, APG 256
	 Stasian tech 82–83
233
233
