Stealth checks. If you’re a master in Crafting, this
increases to a +2 circumstance bonus.
Construct
Your innovation is a mechanical creature, such as a
clockwork construct made of cogs and gears. It’s a
prototype construct companion (page 32), and you
can adjust most of its base statistics by taking feats at
higher levels, such as Advanced Companion. If you use
the Overdrive action, your construct gains the same
Overdrive benefits you do, and it also takes the same
amount of fire damage on a critical failure.
You know how to spend additional time directing,
controlling, or programming your construct innovation
for a more complex plan of action. You can spend 2
actions to Command instead of 1 when commanding
your construct companion; your construct companion
can then use an additional action (normally 3 actions,
rather than 2).
Choose one initial construct modification to apply to
your innovation, either from the following or from other
initial construct modifications to which you have access.
These modifications alter the construct’s abilities or form.
•	 Accelerated Mobility: Actuated legs, efficient gears in
the wheels or treads, or add-on boosters make your
construct faster. Your innovation’s Speed increases to
40 feet.
•	 Amphibious Construction:
Increased
buoyancy,
rudders, and a means of propulsion like a fluked tail
or powerful propeller make your construct able to
travel in water. Your innovation gains a swim Speed
of 25 feet.
•	 Increased Size: You built your construct innovation
bigger than most. Your construct is Large. If you
have this modification and your construct innovation
becomes an advanced construct companion or
otherwise gains the ability to become Large, you can
immediately change increased size to a different initial
construct modification.
•	 Manual Dexterity:
Your
construct
innovation
has articulated hands or similar appendages
with significant manual dexterity. It can perform
manipulate actions with up to two of its limbs. As
normal for a companion, it still can’t wield weapons
or held items that don’t have the companion trait, and
it can’t activate items.
•	 Projectile Launcher: Your construct has a mounted
dart
launcher,
embedded
cannon,
or
similar
armament. Your innovation gains a ranged unarmed
attack that deals 1d4 bludgeoning or piercing damage
(you choose when you pick this modification). The
attack has the propulsive trait and a range increment
of 30 feet.
•	 Sensory Array: Additional sensory devices give your
innovation low-light vision and darkvision, as well
as imprecise tremorsense out to a range of 30 feet.
•	 Wonder Gears: You map specialized skills into
your construct’s crude intelligence. Your innovation
becomes trained in Intimidation, Stealth, and Survival.
Weapon
Your innovation is an impossible-looking weapon
augmented by numerous unusual mechanisms. It begins
with the same statistics as a level 0 common simple or
martial weapon of your choice, or another level 0 simple
or martial weapon to which you have access. You can
instead use the statistics of a 1st-level common simple or
martial weapon of your choice, or another 1st-level simple
or martial weapon to which you have access, but you must
pay the monetary Price for the weapon. An innovation
weapon can have fundamental and property runes added
to it in the same way as an ordinary weapon. Because of
the unique features of your innovation, everyone except
you is untrained in it, even if they would normally be
trained (or better) in simple or martial weapons. If you
use the Overdrive action, you can choose to change the
additional damage from Overdrive to fire damage.
Choose one initial weapon modification to apply to
your innovation, either from the following or from other
initial weapon modifications to which you have access.
These modifications grant additional weapon traits,
sometimes with extra abilities. A modification might give
your weapon the versatile trait with a damage type that the
weapon could already deal, either from its base damage
type or from an existing versatile trait. In that case, if you
select that modification, you can instead choose to give
the weapon the versatile trait for a different damage type:
bludgeoning, piercing, or slashing.
•	 Blunt Shot (Ranged Only): Your weapon innovation
can file the edges off your ammunition and adjust
the blunt force of the shot to deliver a bludgeoning
attack when necessary, as well as to avoid striking
a lethal blow with an otherwise deadly shot. Your
innovation gains the nonlethal and versatile B traits.
You can choose whether to apply the nonlethal trait
on each attack with your innovation.
•	 Complex Simplicity (Simple Weapon Only): Increase
your innovation’s weapon damage die by one step
(d4 to d6, d6 to d8, d8 to d10, d10 to d12). In
addition, it gains one of the following traits of your
choice: versatile B, versatile P, or versatile S.
•	 Dynamic Weighting (One-handed Melee Weapon
Only; Can’t Have the Agile, Attached, or Free-hand
Trait): Your weapon’s modified weight distribution
can increase power in exchange for taking more hands
to wield. Your innovation gains the two-hand trait,
with a damage die one size higher than the weapon’s
normal weapon damage die size (for instance, a
longsword would gain the two-hand d10 trait). Your
innovation also gains the versatile B trait.
•	 Entangling Form (Melee Only): You’ve altered your
weapon to including tangling wires or straps, or to
1818
