Vehicle Mechanic
You have always felt that vehicles are as much works
of art as they are means of transportation. It doesn’t
matter if it’s as common as a chariot or as complex as
an airship, there’s always some aspect of the vehicle you
can improve upon. Pilots, drivers, and sailors alike value
your expertise, and many seek you out to work on their
vehicles. While you can make a great profit working
on custom vehicles for wealthy clients, you still keep
a vehicle of your own to tinker with as your personal
passion project.
You might be part of a vehicle mechanic union,
working with other mechanics and engineers to find fair
jobs and support each other’s labor. While some vehicle
mechanic unions are secular, many realize the benefits
of organizing alongside a sympathetic religion, and so
they typically adopt the ideals of economically-focused
gods like Abadar or deities interested in crafting such
as the goddess Brigh—the Whisper in Bronze—the
goddess of invention. Whether religious or secular,
vehicle mechanic unions take the bonds between fellow
union members seriously. While this might mean your
character becomes obligated to help a fellow union
member who needs your help, it also means you have
steadfast allies you can fall back on in your own time of
need. In dire straits, such a connection can be worth its
weight in gold.
VEHICLE MECHANIC DEDICATION
FEAT 2
UNCOMMON
ARCHETYPE
DEDICATION
Prerequisites Intelligence 14, trained in Crafting
You are adept at designing and maintaining mechanical
vehicles, and you lavish your attention and ingenuity on
one vehicle in particular. You become an expert in Crafting,
and you choose one vehicle you own—or your party owns
collectively—to be your signature vehicle: the vehicle you
spend time customizing to grant it various advantages.
You can spend 1 week of downtime with a new vehicle to
designate it as your signature vehicle instead. Due to your
amazing customizations and adjustments, pilots gain a +1
circumstance bonus to any piloting checks they make to
control your signature vehicle. If you are a master in Crafting,
this bonus increases to +2.
Special You cannot select another dedication feat
until you have gained two other feats from the mechanic
archetype.
ENGINE BAY
FEAT 4
ARCHETYPE
SKILL
Prerequisites Vehicle Mechanic Dedication, expert in Crafting
You are practiced at working in vast garages of vehicles and
can work on many machines at a time. When Repairing and
spending the full 10 minutes, you can fix up to two objects. If
you are a master in Crafting, you can fix up to four targets. If
you’re legendary in Crafting, you can fix up to eight targets.
This feat has no effect when using Quick Repair or another
ability to reduce the time spent Repairing.
PATCH JOB
FEAT 4
ARCHETYPE
Prerequisites Vehicle Mechanic Dedication
You can patch up damage to an object with a quick fix. You
gain the Improvised Repair general feat. When you use
Improvised Repair, you can attempt a Crafting check with the
same DC as Repair. If you succeed, you can use the object as a
normal object of its type until it takes damage rather than as
a shoddy object of its type.
56
56
