Introduction
Gears
Characters
Gears
Equipment
Guns
Characters
Guns
Equipment
The Rotating
Gear
Glossary
And Index
Guns &
GEARS
SHORTHANDED
FEAT 4
ARCHETYPE
Typically, a siege weapon is meant to be run by a crew with
a very specific minimum number of members designed to
ensure that your crew can account for every possible variable
and necessity in loading, aiming, and firing the weapon.
In a pinch, however, you can operate it with fewer people,
provided you know what you’re doing. You can operate a siege
weapon with fewer than the minimum number of crew, at an
increasing penalty. You and your crew take a –2 penalty to
checks to Load, Aim, Launch, move, or Repair the weapon for
each person below the minimum crew. The maximum number
of missing minimum crew members you can handle with this
feat is 5. For example, if a siege weapon had a minimum crew
size of 8, you would still need a crew of 3, and you would take
a –10 penalty when doing so.
CANNON CORNER SHOT
FEAT 6
ARCHETYPE
By loading special ammunition in a particular way, you can
make your siege weapons do all manner of tricks that other
siege engineers can barely even imagine. If you personally
contribute an additional Load action to the siege weapon’s
loading, above the minimum, you can change a burst into a
line twice as long as the size of the burst, or vice versa (so a
10-foot burst turns into a 20-foot line, or a 20-foot line turns
into a 10-foot burst).
FIELD ARTILLERY [one-action]
FEAT 6
ARCHETYPE
Prerequisites expert in Crafting
While castles are generally obliging enough to stay in one
place, out in the field positioning is of paramount importance—a
gun in the wrong place is worse than useless. You can Interact
with an adjacent mounted siege weapon to increase its Speed
by 10 feet for one round.
LIVE AMMUNITION
FEAT 8
ARCHETYPE
There are generally few things as ill-advised as being shot
out of a cannon or launched by a trebuchet, but people use
the tactic every so often in a desperate situation. While it’s
more humane to use this strategy with mindless constructs
or undead, occasionally an exceedingly foolhardy adventurer
demands the opportunity to try it. Loading a creature requires
two additional Load actions, which you must conduct
personally. The creature must be willing, unconscious, or
restrained throughout the process, and the siege weapon
must be physically capable of firing the creature in question,
based on their size and shape. Typically, that means ballistas
don’t qualify, for example—nor do auto-catapults which
require specifically-sized balls—but normal catapults and
onagers work just fine. When you Launch the weapon, if the
weapon usually targets an area, you target a single 5-foot
square instead. The siege weapon deals its normal damage to
its target, or to the modified area, and to the creature fired.
MASTER SIEGE ENGINEER
FEAT 16
ARCHETYPE
What you don’t know about artillery isn’t worth knowing and
your mastery allows you to perform an impossible number of
actions as part of a siege weapon’s crew. You’re permanently
quickened. You can only use the extra action to Aim or Launch
a siege weapon.
LEADING WITH A CANNON
A proper artillerist is more than an engineer, though their
skills in that field certainly shouldn’t be underestimated.
When a war becomes unavoidable, the presence of
knights and pikemen might decide a skirmish or battle,
but a well-trained artillerist with a reliable squad and
a few good siege weapons can make the difference
between prolonged months of battle with countless lives
lost and a shorter, less bloody affair with fewer deaths
and a more lasting victory.
Castles and fortifications are critical tools for holding
land in a world full of empires, kingdoms, and duchies all
vying for power. Many wars are won or lost not based on
the military might of either side, but on a castle’s ability to
withstand an extended siege. Without a team of engineers
capable of penetrating a castle or keep’s defenses, the
occupants can wait out an invading force for as long as
they have enough food and water to keep their citizens
and defenders healthy and fed. Many wars have been
“won” when the besieged force manages to last through a
single winter. Besieging armies whose supply lines break
down due to snow-clogged passes or insufficient cold
weather gear are forced to retreat due to losses from poor
hygiene or hypothermia long before attrition has had an
opportunity to impact their opponents.
An artillerist changes this dynamic, completely
rewriting the rules of war. Rather than time being on
the side of the besieged, it becomes the tool of the
besieger. Each day that passes while a skilled artillerist
hammers the castle walls with cannon fire and catapult
stones brings the fortifications ever closer to crumbling
down. Some wise nobles and warlords who realize their
opponents have brought siege weapons, especially
powerful black powder siege weapons like cannons,
will choose to negotiate surrender before battle is even
started, recognizing an inevitable defeat that can be
staved off temporarily by sacrificing many soldiers but
not thwarted without outside intervention.
Ruthless or evil artillerists, or the warlords they follow,
might take things a step further, specifically targeting
granaries to starve enemies out or launching rotting
food, corpses, or diseased livestock into parts of the town
near water sources. As food and water supplies dwindle,
so too does the morale of the castle’s inhabitants and
defenders. Even a stubborn noble or warlord will find it
hard to continue resisting a siege when their own troops
mutiny and their citizens begin seeking a way out.
129
129
