Pistol Phenom
“You saw what I can do, so you know I’m telling the
truth when I say that I don’t miss. That was just a
warning shot. Now if you’d kindly empty out that coffer
into my bag of holding, I don’t see any need for this to get
unpleasant... do you?”
—Unidentified pistol-twirling half-elf desperado, just
before absconding with the funds a corrupt Alkenstar shield
marshal planned to use to bribe a judge.
You treat combat as an art and your pistol as an extension
of your performance. You might wield a single pistol, a
pair of pistols, or a pistol paired with a melee weapon to
pull off showy maneuvers. However you slice it, though,
the use of pistols or other one-handed firearms is crucial
to your technique and style.
To you, everything is a show, and you use your gun
as a prop and instrument, not just to kill opponents
but to trick, mislead, hinder, and even bully them into
doing what you want them to do. While others tend to
focus on delivering as much devastation downrange as
possible, your style is all about control. By controlling
a foe’s attention and actions, you can bolster your own
attacks and mitigate the foe’s potential for mayhem. You
control the tempo of the battle much as you would a
staged performance, carefully ensuring your foe’s actions
don’t fall outside of your intended script. You’re both
the director and the star of this show, and your enemies
dance to the tune you play with your pistol... sometimes
quite literally!
Additional Feats: 4th Sword and Pistol (page 111);
12th Trick Shot (page 116); 16th Showstopper (page 118)
PISTOL PHENOM DEDICATION
FEAT 2
UNCOMMON
DEDICATION
DEDICATION
ARCHETYPE
DEDICATION
Prerequisites trained in at least one type of one-handed
firearm, trained in Deception, trained in Performance
You catch an opponent off-guard by spinning your weapon.
You gain the Pistol Twirl gunslinger feat, enabling you to Feint
against creatures within your weapon’s first range increment.
This otherwise serves as Pistol Twirl for the purpose of
meeting prerequisites, although as normal, it doesn’t count
as another pistol phenom feat for the purpose of meeting
Pistol Phenom Dedication’s special entry and taking another
archetype. Whenever you Feint with a one-handed firearm,
you can choose to attempt a Performance check instead
of a Deception check.
Special You can’t select another dedication feat until
you’ve gained at least two other feats from the pistol
phenom archetype.
GUNPOWDER GAUNTLET [one-action]
FEAT 4
ARCHETYPE
Prerequisites Pistol Phenom Dedication
Requirements You’re wielding a loaded one-handed firearm.
Your flair keeps foes’ attention, as your motions with your gun
draw your foes into a deadly game. As you toy with them and
performatively brandish your weapon, you build their tunnel
vision, leaving them trapped in a perceptual gauntlet of your
own making. Attempt a Performance check against the Will
DC of a single target within your one-handed firearm’s first
range increment.
Critical Success The target takes a –2 status penalty to attack
rolls against creatures other than you until the beginning
of your next turn.
Success The target takes a –1 status penalty to attack rolls
against creatures other than you until the beginning of your
next turn.
136
136
