Introduction
Gears
Characters
Gears
Equipment
Guns
Characters
Guns
Equipment
The Rotating
Gear
Glossary
And Index
Guns &
GEARS
SUPERIOR PROPULSION
FEAT 6
ARCHETYPE
Prerequisites Vehicle Mechanic Dedication
By experimenting with the effects of momentum gained from
your signature vehicle’s movement, you have learned to get
more from propulsion than just speed when the pilot pushes
the vehicle to its limit. Each time the pilot Drives your signature
vehicle as a 2- or 3-action activity and succeeds at the Piloting
check, the vehicle produces an additional effect, depending on
its method of propulsion. If your signature vehicle has more
than one propulsion method, the pilot can select which benefit
to gain each time they succeed at the Piloting check to Drive
the vehicle as a 2- or 3-action activity.
Alchemical The caustic runoff from the alchemical engines
is now weaponized. Creatures adjacent to your signature
vehicle when it begins its movement take acid damage equal
to your level.
Clockwork More resilient gears allow the vehicle to remain
functional, even when damaged. If your signature vehicle is
broken, it does not need to make the flat check to avoid losing
operating time.
Magical The residual magic from your signature vehicle
interferes with hostile spells. Pilots, crew, and passengers of
the vehicle gain a +1 circumstance bonus to saving throws
against spells until the start of the pilot’s next turn.
Pulled You have eased the amount of effort needed for
those pulling your signature vehicle to move it. The vehicle
gains a +10 circumstance bonus to its Speed.
Rowed Reinforced ports protect the rowers below decks
from harm. Rowers of your signature vehicle who are
below decks have greater cover from attacks from outside
the vehicle and are not damaged when the vehicle takes
collision damage.
Steam The outlet of steam forms a cloud around the vehicle
as it moves. For the duration of its movement, your signature
vehicle is concealed.
Wind The draft of the wind helps the vehicle turn. During
this movement, your signature vehicle can turn normally,
rather than needing to move in a straight line as normal for a
2- or 3-action Drive.
EFFICIENT CONTROLS
FEAT 7
ARCHETYPE
SKILL
Prerequisites Vehicle Mechanic Dedication, master in Crafting
By reducing redundant systems and streamlining essential
functions, you have made it easier for the vehicle to operate
with fewer crew. Reduce the number of crew required to
operate your signature vehicle by 25%. For example, you
would reduce a sailing ship from needing 1 pilot and 8 crew
to 1 pilot and 6 crew. This adjustment only affects the number
of crew needed to operate the vehicle; it doesn’t reduce the
vehicle’s need for a pilot.
IMPERVIOUS VEHICLE
FEAT 8
ARCHETYPE
Prerequisites Vehicle Mechanic Dedication
From armor plating and flexible components, to reinforced
materials and backup redundant functionality, you have built
safeguards to protect your vehicle from the rigors of combat.
Your signature vehicle gains a +1 circumstance bonus to AC
and Fortitude saves, and increases its Hit Points by an amount
equal to twice your level.
MIRACULOUS FLIGHT
FEAT 18
ARCHETYPE
MAGICAL
Prerequisites Vehicle Mechanic Dedication
With superior engineering and magical application, you
have freed your signature vehicle from the bonds of gravity,
allowing it to soar through the sky like a dragon. The vehicle
gains magical propulsion and a fly Speed equal to its fastest
current Speed. If your signature vehicle already had a fly
Speed, reduce the distance the vehicle needs to make a
90-degree turn to half the usual length (typically half the
length of the vehicle).
UNIONS
Vehicle mechanics typically ply their trade to those
who need to keep their vehicles finely tuned. As in most
other such trades, some vehicle mechanics form unions
to keep business practices fair and to protect each other
from predatory employers. The Absalom Shipwright’s
Union is the largest union for vehicle mechanics in
Absalom, with over a thousand builders, carpenters, and
engineers among its membership. Almenia Oarstone
(LG female dwarf shipwright) is the current leader of
the union, having been a member for more than 60
years. It is said that you can count on one hand the
number of ships that have docked in Absalom on which
she has never worked. The Shipwright’s Union manages
shipbuilding and repairs in both the Devil’s Own and the
Sea King Shipyard, and sometimes dispatches members
to handle jobs that need doing at the Docks.
USING VEHICLES
The vehicle mechanic plays best in a campaign where
the PCs adventure together in one shared vehicle that
the mechanic can enhance, such as in a pirate campaign
on a single vessel. In this way, the vehicle mechanic
archetype pairs excellently with a PC who has chosen
the trick driver archetype. As mentioned on page 55,
vehicles are an element you should consider carefully
before deciding to include, even in a guns and gears
campaign. Vehicles are relatively complicated and can
move very fast, which may make mapping encounters
quite difficult. They can also move characters too
far from the fight for other participants to respond.
Think carefully before deciding whether to include
the vehicle mechanic archetype, and make sure that
vehicle use is right for your campaign’s style and
encounter area size.
57
57
