range increment. The target is pushed directly back 10 feet (20 feet on a critical hit),
and if this pushes the target into an obstacle, the target takes bludgeoning damage
equal to half your level.
PISTOLERO’S CHALLENGE [one-action]
FEAT 6
AUDITORY
FLOURISH
GUNSLINGER
LINGUISTIC
MENTAL
Prerequisites way of the pistolero
With a stern call, carefully chosen barb, or some other challenging declaration, you
demand your foe’s attention in a duel. Choose an opponent within 30 feet who you
can perceive and can hear you, and make your choice of a Deception or Intimidation
check against the target’s Will DC. No matter the result of the check, the foe is
temporarily immune to your Pistolero’s Challenge until noon the next day.
Success Both you and the opponent gain a +2 status bonus to damage rolls with
Strikes made against each other. If you’re a master in the skill you used for the
check, the status bonus to damage rolls increases to +3, and if you’re legendary,
it increases to +4.
You can have only one challenge in effect at a time; challenging a new opponent
ends this effect on any current target. Otherwise, the effect lasts until one of you
is defeated, flees, or the encounter ends.
Critical Failure You become frightened 1 and can’t use this ability again for 1 minute.
SCATTER BLAST [two-actions]
FEAT 6
GUNSLINGER
Requirements You’re wielding a loaded firearm that has the scatter trait.
You pack your weapon with additional shot and powder, creating a risky but
devastating wave of destruction. Make a ranged Strike with the firearm. The firearm’s
range increment increases by 20 feet and the radius of its scatter increases by 20
feet. The Strike gains the following failure conditions.
Failure The firearm misfires, but it doesn’t cause the other critical failure effects
listed below.
Critical Failure The firearm misfires and also explodes. It becomes broken, and it
deals its normal weapon damage to all creatures in a 20-foot burst centered on
the firearm, with a basic Reflex save against your class DC. This damage includes
any from the weapon’s fundamental and property runes.
SNIPER’S AIM [two-actions]
FEAT 6
CONCENTRATE
GUNSLINGER
Prerequisites way of the sniper
You take an extra moment to carefully sync your aim and breathing, then fire a
shot with great accuracy. Make a ranged weapon Strike. You gain a +2 circumstance
bonus to this Strike’s attack roll and ignore the target’s concealment. If you’re using
a kickback firearm, you don’t take the normal circumstance penalty on this Strike for
not having the required Strength score or firing without using a stabilizer.
8TH LEVEL
BULLET SPLIT [one-action]
FEAT 8
FLOURISH
GUNSLINGER
Requirements You’re wielding a firearm or crossbow in one hand and a slashing (or
versatile S) melee weapon in the other.
You carefully align your weapon with the edge of your blade, splitting the
projectile in two as you fire to attack two different targets. Make two Strikes, one
each against two separate targets. The targets must be adjacent to each other and
within your weapon’s maximum range. Each of these attacks takes a –2 penalty
to the attack roll, but the two count as only one attack when calculating your
multiple attack penalty.
SAMPLE GUNSLINGER
DRIFTER
With a gun in one hand and a blade or
club in the other, you strike and move,
never standing still.
ABILITY SCORES
Prioritize Dexterity, followed by
Strength and Constitution.
SKILLS
Acrobatics, Athletics, Stealth, Thievery
WAY
Drifter
FEATS
Sword and Pistol (1st), Fake Out (2nd),
Black Powder Boost (4th)
114
114
