Introduction
Gears
Characters
Gears
Equipment
Guns
Characters
Guns
Equipment
The Rotating
Gear
Glossary
And Index
Guns &
GEARS
CHAPTER MAP
The following new options appear in this chapter.
Inventor (class)
Page 14
Automaton (ancestry)
Page 36
Common Backgrounds
Page 44
Rare Backgrounds
Page 46
Inventor (multiclass archetype)
Page 49
Overwatch (archetype)
Page 50
Sterling Dynamo (archetype)
Page 52
Trapsmith (archetype)
Page 54
Trick Driver (archetype)
Page 55
Vehicle Mechanic (archetype)
Page 56
INVENTOR
PAGE 15
Any tinkerer can follow a diagram
to make a device, but the inventor
creates the impossible and challenges
the boundaries of reality. An inventor
remains on the verge of the next
great breakthrough, and every trial and
tribulation presents another opportunity to
test and tune their contraptions.
DROVEN
Droven is a Pathfinder agent who
undertook many missions as both
traveling hero and recruiter. After an
accident took the lives of his crewmates,
he washed up on the shore of Arcadia.
There he studied the residents’ technology
and rebuilt his arm, lost in the wreck, as well
as crafting a mechanical companion he calls Whirp.
absence from Golarion, blending clockwork knowledge
from multiple eras.
In Garund’s Mana Wastes, magic remains unreliable
at best, and so the grand duchy of Alkenstar founded
there has begun a period of technological innovation,
bolstered by the brilliant discoveries of their allies, the
dwarves of Dongun Hold (page 191).
The continent of Arcadia (page 206) is rife with
inventors and inventions, especially in certain regions
where the culture and ruling bodies push ever further
toward innovation.
Characters from Absalom, New Thassilon, Alkenstar,
Dongun Hold, or especially technological regions of
Arcadia like the Deadshot Lands have access to the
inventor class, as well as uncommon options involving
clockworks from the first two chapters. At the GM’s
discretion, some uncommon options might be more or
less available in certain regions.
MAGITECHNOLOGY
In the continent of Garund, near the border between the
pyramid-studded deserts of Osirion and the lush jungles
of the Mwangi Expanse, the Uomoto people scavenge rare
wonders from the ruins of the Shory Empire, famed for
its flying cities that combined air magic with technology.
The nation of Eihlona in southern Garund has taken its
studies of the Shory and other magitechnology further,
placing its members among the finest experts of the craft.
Such hybrid magitechnology isn’t the domain of the Shory
alone. The ancient fallen empire known as the Jistka
Imperium (page 212) in northern Garund, near modern-
day Rahadoum, developed myriad magitechnological
constructs. The most notable were the famed automatons,
which were designed to house the souls and life forces of
Jistka’s finest residents, before Osirion’s distant ancestors
shattered the Jistkan empire.
Arcadia’s innovations, as well, bring with them
several unique blends of magitechnology, combining
gears, magical sources, and even monster parts to create
fantastic new devices.
Uomoto
characters,
characters
from
Eihlona,
automatons with memories of Jistka, and Arcadians
all have access to the inventor class (page 15), as well
as uncommon magitechnological options from the first
two chapters of this book. At the GM’s discretion, some
uncommon options might be more or less available in
certain regions.
STASIAN TECHNOLOGY
In Avistan, the nation of Ustalav (page 225) is
experiencing a technological renaissance championed
by reckless scientists and innovative undead hunters.
Stasian technology (page 82) is still rare, and even in
Ustalav, it’s hard to get your hands on the Stasian coils
necessary to power such equipment unless you have been
a direct participant in the new renaissance. Characters
from Ustalav have access to the inventor class. While
no characters automatically have access to Stasian
technology, players and GMs interested in exploring these
themes can work together to tie a character to one of the
factions, workshops, or places of learning dedicated to
understanding and developing Stasian tech, granting it as
part of that character’s story and journey.
LANDS BEYOND
The regions listed in this introduction are just a few of
the regions on Golarion where characters might be able
to access various gears options from this chapter and
the next, though they are the most prominent and well-
known. If you’re playing a campaign focused around
the spread and evolution of technology, the locations
where various technological wonders can be found
might shift as your campaign progresses. Furthermore,
you and your group might add your own technologically
advanced nations to the world, and future Pathfinder
books might reveal them as well. In all of these cases,
expand characters’ access to various uncommon options
as appropriate to the new locations.
1313
