Introduction
Gears
Characters
Gears
Equipment
Guns
Characters
Guns
Equipment
The Rotating
Gear
Glossary
And Index
Guns &
GEARS
Regardless, these nightmares possess clues to the spirit’s
life. If you take the immolation hand cannon to the site of its
creation and repair it with tools belonging to the tormented
spirit, you might be able to break the curse. If the spirit is set
free, this weapon becomes a +2 greater striking flaming hand
cannon with no other abilities or curses.
Activate [two-actions] command, Interact; Frequency once per day;
Effect You allow yourself to become partially possessed by
the immolated spirit bound to the hand cannon. For 1 minute,
you look like a flaming corpse. During this time, you gain a +2
status bonus to Intimidation checks and the immolation hand
cannon becomes a +2 striking flaming hand cannon.
PACT-BOUND PISTOL
ITEM 10
RARE
CURSED
ENCHANTMENT
EVIL
FIRE
MAGICAL
Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk L
Wielded in over a hundred duels by the
famed Ustalavic noblewoman Countess
Tasya
Iserav,
this
+1 striking
fearsome dueling pistol (Advanced
Player’s Guide 260) is a work of
master
craftsmanship,
almost
eerie in the axiomatic perfection
present in each dimension and detail.
Commissioned at great expense and
artfully designed by a team of the finest
gunsmiths, this exquisite mahogany pistol
has adamantine detailing. The ruby-eyed,
leering devil’s face that surrounds the barrel
was intended to strike fear into the Countess’s
opponents—of which there were many. Countess
Tasya credited this weapon with her exceptional
success in dueling circles and refused to name the
weapon’s creators for fear their works would fall
into an opponent’s hands. In the past decade, seven
replicas of the Countess’s famed pistol have arisen, each
said to be crafted by the Countess’s anonymous gunsmiths.
That each of these weapon’s wielders have quickly risen to
become exceptional duelists in their own right has
lent credence to their claims. Despite public pressure,
wielders of these replicas have refused to square off
against the Countess.
Despite the weapon’s beauty and utility, a pact-bound
pistol is a cursed weapon and a physical manifestation
of an infernal contract sworn between the bearer of the
weapon and the Archdevil Mephistopheles. Each pact-bound
pistol was crafted not by a team of master artisans, but by
Countess Tasya Iserav herself, a secret diabolist and devoted
priestess of The Crimson Son. The very act of firing the
weapon is an acceptance of the contract’s terms and causes
the weapon to fuse to you. Thereafter, the weapon reappears
in your possessions within 1 minute of you discarding it, and
can’t be destroyed or thrown away permanently, until the
curse is removed.
Whenever you attack a living creature with the pact‑bound
pistol, text from the infernal contract is seared into your
flesh, causing you to lose 1 Hit Point, or 2 Hit Points if the
attack was a critical success. The text appears one sentence
at a time, from the beginning to the end and is written in
Infernal. When the contract is fully scribed (see below), you
no longer lose Hit Points when you attack a living creature.
These burned phrases heal over as scars which can’t be
removed while you are fused to the weapon, although they
can be covered and disguised.
Each time a creature dies within 1 hour of being damaged
by a pact-bound pistol, that creature must attempt a DC 25
Will saving throw. On a failure, their soul is consigned to the
Archdevil Mephistopheles; their soul immediately goes to Hell
and they can’t be returned to life through any means short
of divine intervention, a heist, or a successful appeal in the
courts of Hell; even powerful magic such as wish is insufficient.
After you have consigned 9 souls to Mephistopheles in this
way, the contract is fully scribed upon your flesh. You become
immune to fire damage and the pact-bound pistol becomes a
+2 striking greater fearsome dueling pistol. Your soul belongs
to Mephistopheles and immediately goes to Hell when you
die. You can’t be returned to life through any means, even
through the divine intervention of a deity.
Failing to wield a pact-bound pistol is a breach of
contract. Each day you go without firing the pact‑bound
pistol at a living creature, you must attempt a Will
saving throw. On a failure, you become stupefied
1. If you are already stupefied, the value of
your stupefied condition increases by 1, to
a maximum of stupefied 4. While you’re
fused with the pact-bound pistol, you
can’t reduce the value of your stupefied
condition except by damaging a living
creature with it. Whenever you damage
a living creature with it, if you are
suffering from the stupefied condition
due to the pact-bound pistol, your
stupefied condition is removed.
INTELLIGENT FIREARMS
ANIMATE DREAMER
ITEM 15
RARE
CN
EVOCATION
INTELLIGENT
OCCULT
Usage held in 2 hands; Bulk 2
Perception +26; precise vision 60 feet, imprecise hearing
30 feet
Communication telepathy (Common, and six other common
languages)
Skills Arcana +30, Deception +27, Diplomacy +27, Occultism +30
Int +6, Wis +4, Cha +4
Will +26
The gunsmith that created this marvelous +2 greater
striking spell-storing scattergun poured so much love and
care into its creation that the weapon gained a spark of
sentience. However, at first it was completely incapable of
expressing itself. This led a seething frustration to grow
within the weapon, as it yearned desperately to respond to
161
161
Animate Dreamer
