Golarion shuddered 10,000 years ago when Earthfall
fractured the land, scattering its inhabitants and obliterating
the ancient Azlanti civilization. As ejecta shadowed the
sky, plants withered, trade networks disintegrated, and
Golarion’s societies crumbled, casting the planet into a
literal dark age of bitter survivalism. Yet, scraps of Azlanti
culture survived. Centuries later, along the southern coast
of the newly formed Inner Sea, the illiterate young local
Arustun uncovered a cache of Azlanti writings. Whether
through supernatural enlightenment or natural genius, he
somehow deciphered the texts, using these rediscovered
secrets to revolutionize his local communities. Arustun
swiftly exhausted the texts and craved more. With the help
of his wife, Minurna, and friend Venistos, he built a ship to
sail the seas in search of scattered cultures and other lost
literature—a voyage that eventually saw him traveling to
other planes of existence! Upon his return decades later,
he compiled his tales into the Poleiheira, a book of legends
and teachings that proved foundational throughout the
civilization Arustun helped found: the Jistka Imperium.
This new monarchy focused primarily on technological
development and military expansion, styling itself as an
empire that would unite humanity in a new golden age.
At its disposal, the Imperium boasted two crucial tools:
extraplanar servants and magical artifice. In his travels,
Arustun forged myriad connections to beings aligned with
law and the elements, and the powerful magistrates that
arose in the Jistka Imperium maintained that tradition
by conjuring the likes of aeons and genies to command
armies and evangelize the imperial vision for a bright (if
nonnegotiable) future. Meanwhile, Jistkan priest-artificers
adapted incomplete Azlanti clockwork manuscripts to
create their own schools of golemcraft and mechanization
that far surpassed their predecessors.
The Jistka Imperium’s arrogance and belligerence
stunted its growth and stability. Magistrates and
priest-artificers increasingly competed for power and
influence within the growing aristocracy. The inexorable
conquests of the Imperium’s supernatural armies branded
Jistka as evil invaders in the eyes of its neighbors.
JISTKA IMPERIUM:
ANCIENT AUTOMATONS
212
212
