Introduction
Gears
Characters
Gears
Equipment
Guns
Characters
Guns
Equipment
The Rotating
Gear
Glossary
And Index
Guns &
GEARS
COUGHING DRAGON DISPLAY
FEAT 4
ARCHETYPE
Prerequisites Firework Technician Dedication
This display emits a cascade of loud bangs or glittering
trails. While you initially designed the display to captivate
your audience’s attention, it turns out to have a surprisingly
effective use in combat, suppressing auditory or visual effects
behind your magnificent display. You gain the Coughing
Dragon fireworks display.
Coughing Dragon [two-actions] Cost 2 batches of infused reagents;
Effect Choose either auditory or visual effects. The display
gains that trait, and you attempt to counteract one or more
effects within 60 feet that have this trait. On a success, the
effect is suppressed until the start of your next turn, rather
than ending entirely. Use your Fireworks Lore modifier
as your counteract modifier, and your counteract level is
equal to half your advanced alchemy level (rounded up). A
coughing dragon costs 2 batches of infused reagents rather
than 1, but you can increase the cost to 3 batches and spend
an additional action to create an even bigger coughing
dragon display that attempts to counteract both auditory
and visual effects at the same time.
EXPERT FIREWORKS CRAFTER
FEAT 6
ARCHETYPE
Prerequisites Firework Technician Dedication, expert in
Crafting
You’re particularly adept at crafting fireworks, allowing you
to create much more powerful fireworks than you otherwise
could. Your advanced alchemy level for fireworks increases to
your level – 3.
JUMPING JENNY DISPLAY
FEAT 8
ARCHETYPE
Prerequisites Firework Technician Dedication
This multi-sequence rocket blasts confetti at a series of
altitudes. While the design is intended to delight children
of all ages, you’ve found it has an unexpected side effect
of confounding enemy fliers. You gain the Jumping Jenny
fireworks display.
Jumping Jenny [one-action] Cost 2 batches of infused reagents; Effect
Target a flying creature within 60 feet. Until the start of
your next turn, each time that creature attempts to Fly,
they must succeed at an Acrobatics check to Maneuver in
Flight against the DC of your fireworks display, or the Fly
action is disrupted. If all the creature’s attempts to Fly are
disrupted, at the end of its turn, it falls harmlessly to the
ground below. A jumping jenny costs 2 batches of infused
reagents, rather than 1.
GOBLIN JUBILEE DISPLAY
FEAT 10
ARCHETYPE
Prerequisites Firework Technician Dedication
Flames and explosions sear the air in a riot of color and
devastation that rivals that wrought by even the wildest
goblin party. The display is both so beautiful and chaotic that,
while mesmerizing, it poses a significant risk to the physical
health, sight, and hearing of anyone who gets too close. You
gain the Goblin Jubilee fireworks display.
Goblin Jubilee [three-actions] (fire, sonic, visual) Cost 3 batches of
infused reagents; Effect Chaos fills a 20-foot burst within
120 feet. All creatures in the area takes 3d6 fire damage
and 3d6 sonic damage and must attempt a Fortitude save.
A goblin jubilee display costs 3 batches of infused reagents,
rather than 1.
Critical Success The creature is unaffected.
Success The creature is dazzled and deafened until the end
of its next turn and takes half damage.
Failure The creature is dazzled and deafened for 1 minute
and takes full damage.
Critical Failure The creature is blinded for 1 round, dazzled
and deafened for 1 minute, and takes double damage.
BANSHEE CRY DISPLAY
FEAT 12
ARCHETYPE
Prerequisites Firework Technician Dedication
You’ve learned how to pull off a sudden noisemaker at just
the right moment in your display, a technique that can disrupt
precise wording. You gain the Banshee Cry fireworks display.
Banshee Cry [reaction] Trigger A creature within 30 feet Casts a
Spell that has a verbal component or Activates an Item
using a command Activation; Effect You set off a firework to
explode with a loud screech near the creature. The creature
must attempt a Will save.
Success The creature is unaffected.
Failure The creature must use an additional action on the
triggering action or activity, or it’s disrupted.
Critical Failure The triggering action is disrupted.
DESCRIBING YOUR FIREWORKS DISPLAY
As a firework technician, the exact visuals of your
character’s special abilities might matter significantly to
you. No two firework technicians use exactly the same
fireworks display, even if they come from the same
fireworks house and both use the same feat to generate
the display. In fact, it’s likely that when you use a feat
from the firework technician archetype, the resulting
display remains a bit different each time as you tinker,
perfect, and refine your technique. Even so, you probably
have a few themes that you prefer for each of your
firework technician feats. For instance, your Coughing
Dragon Display might appear in the sinuous serpentine
shape of a literal imperial dragon, coughing out glittering
trails. It might also resemble a simple series of geometric
shapes, an enigmatic spiraling aeon trailing off in a
shape with radial symmetry, a pattern shaped like a tree
blossoming with flowers in the sky, or anything else you
can imagine. To help your fellow players visualize what
your character is doing, you might come up with some
go-to descriptions or draw art depicting some of your
favorite displays.
135
135
