Introduction
Gears
Characters
Gears
Equipment
Guns
Characters
Guns
Equipment
The Rotating
Gear
Glossary
And Index
Guns &
GEARS
to lawful divine servants or divine servants of lawful
deities. A creature with this trait is chaotic in alignment.
An ability with this trait can be selected or used only by
chaotic creatures.
class The adventuring profession chosen by a character.
Each player character picks a class during character
creation. CR 67–68, APG 52–143
class DC A class DC sets
the difficulty for some
abilities granted by your
character’s class. Class DC
= 10 + proficiency bonus +
key ability modifier. CR 29
clockwork
(trait)
Clockworks
are
intricate, complex constructs that can
be programmed to perform specific functions.
A clockwork creature must be wound regularly
to function.
cobbled (weapon trait) This firearm is cobbled together
and likely to misfire. No matter how well you upkeep it,
on a failed attack roll, the attack misses and you must
roll a DC 5 flat check. If you fail this check, the weapon
misfires. 157
cold (trait) Effects with this trait deal cold damage. Creatures
with this trait have a connection to magical cold.
combination (weapon trait) Combination is a new trait
for weapons that combine the functionality of melee
weapons and firearms in unique or unusual ways. A
combination weapon has both a firearm form or usage
and a melee weapon form or usage. Table 4–3: Uncommon
Combination Weapons lists the firearm statistics first,
and the melee weapon statistics indented beneath, just
above the ammunition. 159
complex (trait) A hazard with this trait takes
turns in an encounter.
concealable (weapon trait) This weapon is
designed to be inconspicuous or easily
concealed. You gain a +2 circumstance
bonus to Stealth checks and DCs to hide
or conceal a weapon with this trait. 150
concentrate (trait) An action with this
trait requires a degree of mental
concentration and discipline.
concussive (weapon trait) These weapons
smash as much as puncture. When
determining a creature’s resistance
or immunity to damage from
this weapon, use the weaker of
the target’s resistance or immunity to piercing or to
bludgeoning. For instance, if the creature were immune
to piercing and had no resistance or immunity to
bludgeoning damage, it would take full damage from
a concussive weapon. Resistance or immunity to all
physical damage, or all damage, applies as normal. 150
conjuration (trait) Effects and magic items with this trait
are associated with the conjuration school of magic,
typically involving summoning, creation, teleportation,
or moving things from place to place.
construct (trait) A construct is an artificial creature
empowered by a force other than necromancy. Constructs
are often mindless; they are immune to bleed damage,
death effects, disease, healing, necromancy, nonlethal
attacks, poison, and the doomed, drained, fatigued,
paralyzed, sickened, and unconscious conditions; and
they may have Hardness based on the materials used
to construct their bodies. Constructs are not living
creatures, nor are they undead. When reduced to 0 Hit
Points, a construct creature is destroyed.
construct companion 32–33
consumable (trait) An item with this
trait can be used only once. Unless
stated
otherwise,
it’s
destroyed
after activation. Consumable items
include alchemical items and magical
consumables such as scrolls and
talismans.
When
a
character
creates consumable items, they
can make them in batches of four.
66–71, CR 559–571, APG 252–259
critical fusion (weapon trait)
Critical fusion is a new trait for
combination weapons that grants
you two additional options for the critical specialization
effect when using the combination weapon’s melee
version to make a melee attack while the firearm is loaded.
If you choose to use one of them, they replace the melee
usage’s normal critical specialization effect. First, you
can discharge the firearm to create a loud
bang and concussion, using the critical
specialization
effect
for
firearms
instead of the melee weapon group’s
critical specialization effect. Second, you
can choose to discharge the firearm to
increase the critical hit’s momentum or shoot
the foe as you attack them in melee, dealing
2 additional damage per weapon damage die. Both
of these options discharge the firearm, which typically
means you have to reload it before firing it again. 159
cursed (trait) An item with this trait is cursed to cause
trouble for its owner. A curse isn’t detected when the
item is identified, though a critical success reveals both
the presence and exact nature of the curse. Cursed
items can’t be discarded once they’ve been triggered or
invested the first time. The item can be removed only if
the curse is removed. GMG 90, 251
darkvision (sense) See clearly in darkness, though in black
and white only. CR 465
deadly (weapon trait) On a critical hit, the weapon adds
a weapon damage die of the listed size. Roll this after
doubling the weapon’s damage. This increases to two
dice if the weapon has a greater striking rune and three
dice if the weapon has a major striking rune.
231
231
