Introduction
Gears
Characters
Gears
Equipment
Guns
Characters
Guns
Equipment
The Rotating
Gear
Glossary
And Index
Guns &
GEARS
COMBINATION WEAPON DESCRIPTIONS
The weapons listed in Table 4–3: Uncommon Combination
Weapons are detailed below.
Axe Musket: This item, favored by firearms-using
dwarves and barbarians, takes the form of a sturdy musket
with an axeblade attached near the muzzle.
Black Powder Knuckle Dusters:
This pair of knuckle dusters is fitted
with an explosive charge of black
powder within the hollowed spikes of
the weapon and a firing mechanism you
hold in your hand while in use.
Cane Pistol: This fashionable cane’s handle
hides a dueling pistol fired through the thin, painted
cap at the bottom of the cane.
Dagger Pistol: This weapon, favored by rangers and
other wilderness wanderers, takes the form of a stoutly
built pistol with a dagger blade attached beneath the barrel
and extending out past the muzzle.
Explosive Dogslicer: An explosive dogslicer is a sneaky,
explosive weapon that often brings perverse joy to the
goblins who use them. At first glance, it appears to be a
triple-bladed dogslicer with an oversized guard.
Gnome Amalgam Musket: Rumored to be the result of
a gnomish dare to make a variant of a hooked hammer
that’s even more intricate and complex, this weapon adds
a musket to the mix of an already overcomplicated device.
Gun sword: This weapon consists of a large sword with
a powerful gun based on a harmona gun down the center.
Vanguards and other characters who rely on Strength
and Dexterity enjoy the power and
flexibility of a gun sword.
Hammer Gun: This weapon, favored
by dwarves and those who like smashing
and shooting, takes the form of a stoutly
built gun designed similarly to an arquebus
with a hammer head built into the muzzle,
decreasing kickback but limiting range.
Mace Multipistol: At first glance this weapon
looks like nothing more than an iron-bound club.
But the top of the weapon features a latch that opens
to reveal three rotating pistol muzzles concealed in the
mace’s head that can be fired and rotated using triggers
built into the weapon’s haft.
Piercing Wind: Favored by caravan guards who traverse
the Mana Wastes, a piercing wind is similar to a jezail,
in that you can carry it in one hand as long as the other
hand’s free, by holding it under one arm. Additionally, it’s
fitted with an underslung curved blade.
Rapier Pistol: This elegant weapon is shaped similarly
to a rapier with a pistol down the length of the blade.
Three Peaked Tree: A recently developed weapon created
for an elven champion from Jinin, the three-peaked tree can
be used as both a trident and a mithral tree. A three-peaked
tree has a length of silken rope attached to the butt of its
haft, allowing it to be quickly retrieved after thrown.
ADDITIONAL TRAITS
The following traits are applicable to various weapons in
this section.
Combination: Combination is a new trait for weapons
that combine the functionality of melee weapons and
firearms in unique or unusual ways. A combination
weapon has a firearm form or usage and a melee weapon
form or usage. Table 4–3: Uncommon Combination
Weapons lists the firearm statistics first and the melee
weapon statistics indented beneath, just above the
ammunition. Switching between the melee weapon
usage and the firearm usage requires an Interact
action. However, if your last action was a successful
melee Strike against a foe using a combination
weapon, you can make a firearm Strike with the
combination weapon against that foe without
fully switching to the firearm usage, firing the
firearm just as you hit with the melee attack. In this
case, the combination weapon returns to its melee
usage after the firearm Strike.
Since a combination weapon is one weapon with
two usages, both usages share any fundamental
runes. You can put a property rune on a combination
weapon as long as it’s appropriate for either of the two
usages, but if only one of the usages meets the property
rune’s requirements, the effects of the property rune only
apply for that usage. For instance, a vorpal axe musket
only applies the vorpal property rune when you are
using it as an axe. Due to their complexity, combination
weapons can’t have another weapon, such as a bayonet or
reinforced stock, attached to them.
Critical Fusion: Critical fusion is a new trait for
combination weapons that grants you two additional
options for their critical specialization effect when using
the combination weapon’s melee version to make a melee
attack while the firearm is loaded. If you choose to use
one of them, they replace the melee usage’s normal critical
specialization effect. First, you can discharge the firearm
to create a loud bang and concussion, using the
critical specialization effect for firearms instead
of the melee weapon group’s critical specialization
effect. Second, you can choose to discharge the firearm
to increase the critical hit’s momentum or shoot the
foe as you attack them in melee, dealing 2
additional damage per weapon damage die.
Both options discharge the firearm, which
typically means you have to reload it before
firing it again.
Tethered: This weapon is attached to a
length of rope or chain that allows you to
retrieve it after it’s left your hand. If you
have a free hand, you can use an Interact
action to pull the weapon back into your grasp after you
have thrown it as a ranged attack or after it has been
disarmed (unless it’s being held by another creature).
159
159
Axe Musket
Piercing Wind
