20TH LEVEL
FULL AUTOMATION
FEAT 20
INVENTOR
Prerequisites armor, construct, or weapon innovation
You become so entwined with your innovations that you
can use them without a second thought. You’re permanently
quickened. How you can use the extra action depends on
your innovation.
•	 Armor Your armor responds to the most subtle stimuli
to move you in the right direction as long as you are
wearing it. You can use the extra action to Stride, Step,
or use a form of movement provided by your innovation
(such as Fly or Swim).
•	 Construct Your ability to command your construct
becomes instinctive. You can use the extra action to
Command your construct innovation (or to provide
1 of the actions if you choose to spend 2 actions to
Command your construct).
•	 Weapon Your weapon becomes easier to wield with
deadly efficacy, almost as if it is an extension of your
body. It speeds effortlessly toward whatever target
you choose as long as you are holding it. You can use
the extra action to Strike with your innovation.
UBIQUITOUS OVERDRIVE
FEAT 20
INVENTOR
Prerequisites Shared Overdrive
You prepare a variety of incredible gizmos on each of your
allies, linking them together through careful modification to
enable you to power them up all at once. During your daily
preparations, select up to six willing allies. Whenever you
Overdrive, you grant the benefits of your overdrive to any of
these allies you choose who are within 30 feet of you. The
allies don’t gain the increased damage from expert, master, or
legendary overdrive.
Construct Companions
A construct companion is a loyal semi-sentient
construct who follows your orders obediently and is
roughly as intelligent as an animal. Your construct
companion has the minion trait, and it gains 2 actions
during your turn if you use the Command a Minion
action to command it.
If your companion is destroyed, you can spend 1
day of downtime and attempt a Crafting check with
a high DC for your level. On a success, you rebuild
your companion. You can have only one construct
companion at a time, and you can have either a
construct companion or an animal companion, but not
both.
RIDING CONSTRUCT COMPANIONS
You or an ally can ride your construct companion as long
as your construct companion is at least one size larger
than the rider.
PROTOTYPE CONSTRUCT COMPANIONS
The following are the base statistics for a prototype
construct companion, the first construct companion most
characters get. A companion has the same level you do.
As you gain levels, you might make further adjustments
as your companion grows more powerful. Construct
companions calculate their modifiers and DCs just as you
do, with one difference: the only item bonuses they can
benefit from are to Speed.
Construct Trait
A construct companion has the construct trait. It’s not a
living creature, nor is it undead.
Proficiencies
Your construct companion is trained in its unarmed
attacks,
unarmored
defense,
all
saving
throws,
Perception,
Acrobatics,
and
Athletics.
Construct
companions can’t use abilities that require greater
Intelligence, such as Coerce or Decipher Writing, even
if trained in the appropriate skill, unless they have an
ability that allows it.
Size
Your construct companion is either Small or Medium,
chosen by you when you first gain the companion.
Strikes
Your construct companion has two kinds of melee
unarmed attacks. Its first unarmed attack deals 1d8
bludgeoning damage. Depending on the shape of your
construct this could be a fist, tendril, or other similar
unarmed attack. Its other unarmed attack deals 1d6
slashing or piercing damage (choose when you first
gain the companion) and has the agile and finesse traits.
Depending on the shape of your construct, this could be a
spine or spike, jaws or fangs, a retractable blade, or other
similar unarmed attack.
Ability Modifiers
A construct companion begins with base ability
modifiers of Str +3, Dex +3, Con +2, Int –4, Wis +1,
Cha +0.
Hit Points
Your construct companion has 10 Hit Points, plus a
number of Hit Points equal to 6 plus its Constitution
modifier for each level you have.
While constructs are usually immediately destroyed
at 0 Hit Points, your construct companion is a little
harder to destroy than other constructs are. When your
construct reaches 0 Hit Points, it becomes broken and
begins sparking and might be destroyed if you don’t
Repair it. This works the same as the normal dying
rules and determines if your construct is destroyed,
with the following two changes. First, most effects that
32
32
