EXPLOSIVES AND CANNONS
Prior to the introduction of black powder, Vudra already
had access to quality alchemist’s fire. Considering the
black powder formula they received from Tian Xia was
so weak, it should come as no surprise that their first
attempts at creating black powder explosives involved
mixing it with these sticky substances to see what would
BLANKET BAN VERSUS CONTROLLED CONCESSION
Tian Xia’s and Vudra’s attitudes toward firearms couldn’t
differ more. While Tian Xia openly despises yet craves
them, Vudra accepts them with reverence and respect.
Tian Xia’s ban on imported firearms started almost
immediately after the creation of the first firearms in
Alkenstar, which suited the Grand Duchy well, as they
had no intention of spreading their engineering secrets
far and wide. Nonetheless, a single firearm managed
to reach the continent through Goka within months of
creation, and more have continued to arrive sporadically
ever since. Most rulers feared the lethal potential of the
weapons and saw them as an instrument that could
easily challenge their power if given out to the masses
in sufficient numbers. As a result, current firearm sales in
Tian Xia happen almost exclusively on the black market,
and the penalties associated with the trade are ruthless.
Extralegal sellers often question authorities’ motives
in bringing the hammer down on firearms; though the
stated goal is typically to discourage their use and
control their distribution, smugglers argue that such
desires ring hollow and hypocritical when the authorities
themselves then seek to bolster their own stores of these
weapons. There is currently no ban on firearm manuals or
designs, meaning officials and rulers can legally own and
import them if they can locate the often expensive and
secret documents. Officials that seize a shipment rarely
destroy them on the spot, allowing them to stockpile
confiscated firearms in the name of enforcing the ban. It’s
relatively easy for rich merchants and members of the
nobility to import a firearm missing the requisite trigger
components as an “art piece.” Of course, once they’ve
done so, they can secretly forge the trigger components
locally, if they have access to the necessary plans.
Meanwhile, in Vudra, firearms are not universally
banned, though many rajahs had concerns about their
impact on various aspects of daily life. As such, the sale
of physical firearms and designs are monitored and
regulated, and merchants can only sell to those of specific
castes and certain ranks, for a limited set of reasons.
Now that Vudra has begun to commission their own
firearm production houses, most firearms produced there
are considered to belong to the producers and given to
buyers on a “long-term lease”. This gives the government
the legal right to confiscate a weapon, should they feel
such a decision is warranted.
happen. The result was akin to a potent, long-burning
alchemical fire that had a wide splash zone, which they
called naptha. Too volatile to use in simple bombs,
naptha was nonetheless valuable in warfare to create
hazardous burning areas. It saw limited use, however,
as it caused more damage than expected when used in
urban or jungle areas common in Vudran warfare.
The idea of cannons arose independently in Vudra as
well, and Vudrans were much more persistent in finding
a design that could withstand the explosion compared
to efforts elsewhere, such as Tian Xia. Their weaker
black powder helped with that, in a sense, although it
limited the blasting power of their early cannons. In a
small, nameless Vudrani satrapy, the result of decades of
careful research was a cast bronze cannon of incredible
size, intended as a siege weapon that could replace a
ram. This success motivated the rajahs and satraps of
other regions to pursue similar creations, giving rise
to a range of cannons of all sizes, from large defensive
cannons that required numerous horses or other forms
of physical power to move, to lightweight mortars that
could be easily carried by hand. The most unexpected
invention to arise out of the arms race, however, is
the underwater cannon—easily hidden from view, it is
capable of firing and delivering an explosion through a
body of water to an enemy ship.
FIREARMS
Positioned between Alkenstar and Tian Xia, Vudra
encountered a few of the Grand Duchy’s new firearms
earlier even than black powder’s birthplace, adopting
designs and production techniques several years ahead
of their neighbors. Compared to Tian Xia, the populace
has also accepted these new firearms quite readily, with
some even viewing them as a status symbol. However,
symbolic or not, these firearms have led to a number
of accidental injuries and deaths—most kingdoms have
placed a temporary ban and penalty in place for such
acts and are trying to figure out how to best reduce the
dangers from celebratory firing.
While some kingdoms increased the production of
fireworks to make them more accessible in place of
these new firearms, other kingdoms quickly diverted
their fireworks engineers to work on new gun designs,
with the intention of building their own artillery units.
With a preference towards muskets, these kingdoms
have recently begun to sanction skilled artisans to set up
royal gunsmithing houses. The kingdoms plan to offer
a portion of the guns to the public for sale through a
“long-term lease,” with the kingdom’s army retaining
ownership of the vast majority of these firearms. Having
control over the weapon manufacturing also gives
them control over the number and type of bullets sold,
allowing the kingdoms to provide blanks to the public
with the hope that this will reduce the rates of accidental
injuries and deaths.
224
224
