Introduction
Gears
Characters
Gears
Equipment
Guns
Characters
Guns
Equipment
The Rotating
Gear
Glossary
And Index
Guns &
GEARS
knowledge-seekers from around the Inner Sea region.
The priests understand that collaboration propels
innovation and often waive entry fees for interested but
impoverished attendees who seem likely to contribute
some useful knowledge.
Priests at the Gallery of Innovation are required
to give lectures as part of their regular temple duties,
but those who don’t enjoy public speaking foist the
obligations onto junior acolytes. While this duty is a
great opportunity for the temple’s newest members—
as nothing sharpens one’s knowledge on a subject like
having to speak to a room full of experts on it—this
practice results in many of the lectures being somewhat
haphazard, with the audience often providing opinions
and corrections. Flindish Tanwhirl (N female gnome
cleric 10), the current high priest of Brigh, is an enigmatic
gnome whom some claim to be more
clockworks than flesh. She spends so
much of her time at the Clockwork
Cathedral that her rare appearances
at the Gallery of Innovation cause
ripples of excitement. The few
lectures Flindish gives each year are
as crowded as they are convoluted.
WINDARIUM
The Windarium in Westgate is often
an inventor’s first stop for supplies, as the
proprietors sell all manner of screws, springs,
gears, and assorted components. A married couple,
Symo (LG male half-orc expert 11) and Mirtion (LN
male human merchant 6), run the shop; Symo is the
mechanical genius, while Mirtion is better at inventory
management and sales. Symo recently accepted a
high-ranking position in Absalom’s military, supervising
siege weapons and similar mechanical contrivances,
so the frantic Mirtion often runs the Windarium by
himself. Due to his lack of mechanical know-how,
Mirtion is easily flustered by detailed questions from
knowledgeable shoppers. The Windarium also sells
completed toys, devices, and curiosities at modest prices;
most of these are Symo’s inventions created during his
off hours. Although these curiosities are usually reliable
and virtually never dangerous, Mirtion doesn’t provide
any guarantees about the effectiveness of his husband’s
ticking, clattering wares.
MARKETS
Absalom’s bustling markets are an excellent place to
seek out clockwork innovations, although someone new
to a market might have to ask around to find the right
vendor. The Grand Bazaar is the best place to purchase
cunning clockwork contraptions, but God’s Market
does a brisk trade in Brighite innovations. Unless a
purchaser is seeking something simple, the wares are
likely to be expensive and well protected. Like any
purveyors of expensive goods, Absalom’s merchants of
clockworks usually employ guards, whether discreet or
overt. These guards are sometimes clockwork soldiers
or similar constructs, particularly when the merchant
wants to demonstrate the effectiveness of their wares
while simultaneously protecting them.
GADGET MERCHANTS
If you need to quickly determine a seller of clockworks
or contraptions in one of Absalom’s markets, here are
several for your consideration.
Cogsmaster: This excitable, purple-haired halfling
has a wide banner above his stall proclaiming him the
“Cogsmaster!” He’s a showman who might have excelled
as a sideshow barker, as he’s quick to announce each
of his items as “futuristic innovations” or “labor-saving
devices” to any who will listen. In truth, he knows little
about how his wares operate; he simply buys them
cheaply and counts on his bluster to justify the markup.
Humphrin Geen: A gaunt, sallow-faced human in an
ill-fitting suit, Humphrin keeps his clockwork wares
on taller-than-normal tables, as though to keep them
away from the hands of halflings or gnomes. In
truth, Humphrin dotes on children and, knowing
that errant springs or grinding
gears might pinch their inquisitive
fingers, doesn’t want them to come
to any harm.
Nettle: This fastidious sunflower
leshy (Pathfinder Bestiary 2 160)
has an exacting attention to detail
and a meticulously sorted table of
spare parts, winding keys, springs,
and other bric-a-brac inventors might
find useful. She finds more delight in
sorting her wares than actually selling them, and
has an unpleasant tendency to comment unfavorably on
customers’ untidy appearances or dirty hands.
Ostinna Barbetler: This stern and fussy dwarf has
a good variety of wares, all clearly marked with fair
prices. The practice of haggling absolutely disgusts
her; if anyone suggests paying even a copper coin
less than the listed price, she unceremoniously ejects
the offender from her stall. She noisily denounces the
“bald-faced skinflint” to vendors nearby, most of whom
ignore her aspersions.
Rargin Hoffnatler: A bear-like Taldan man with a
wide grin and bellowing laugh, Rargin enjoys practical
jokes. Apart from the clockwork toys and devices in his
stall, he keeps a table bearing several joke items such
as itching powders and noisemakers. When customers
are scarce, he deftly incorporates these items into his
ordinary wares, offering the next customer a “close
demonstration” of the trapped device as a prank.
205
205
Clockwork Toy
