Introduction
Gears
Characters
Gears
Equipment
Guns
Characters
Guns
Equipment
The Rotating
Gear
Glossary
And Index
Guns &
GEARS
Until the end of your next turn, your fist loses the nonlethal
trait and deals an additional 1 fire damage on a successful
Strike. Each time you succeed on a fist Strike, you take 1
fire damage. If your fist would deal more than one weapon
damage die, the fire damage dealt on a successful Strike,
to both you and your opponent, is equal to the number of
weapon damage dice.
9TH LEVEL
DEMOLITIONIST
FEAT 9
UNCOMMON
DWARF
Access You are from Dongun Hold or Alkenstar.
You know how to destroy objects with a well-placed
explosion. Whenever you hit with a bomb Strike against a
trap or an unattended object, you ignore the first 5 points of
the object’s Hardness.
SMOKE SIGHT
FEAT 9
UNCOMMON
DWARF
Access You are from Dongun Hold or Alkenstar.
You’re used to fighting and hiding in a haze of smoke and
flame. You automatically succeed at the DC 5 flat check to
target a concealed creature if that creature is concealed
only by smoke. When you are concealed or hidden in smoke,
increase the DC of the flat check to target you to 6 if you’re
concealed or 12 if you’re hidden.
13TH LEVEL
CRAFTER’S INSTINCT [reaction]
FEAT 13
UNCOMMON
DWARF
FORTUNE
Prerequisites master in Crafting
Access You are from Dongun Hold or Alkenstar.
Frequency once per day
Trigger You misfire with a firearm or you roll a failure on a
Strike with a ranged weapon.
You sense a minor flaw in the weapon as you fire it, and
quickly adjust your aim on the fly to avoid the flaw. If the
triggering Strike was a misfire, you get a normal failure
instead. If the triggering Strike was a failure, it becomes a
glancing blow that deals minimum damage for the Strike
(adding any bonuses as normal but getting a result of 1 for all
damage dice that would be rolled on a success). The glancing
blow does not apply other effects that would normally
happen only on a hit.
EXPLOSIVE EXPERT
FEAT 13
UNCOMMON
DWARF
Prerequisites Explosive Savant
Access You are from Dongun Hold or Alkenstar.
You have continued training in volatile weapons and gained
a deeper understanding. Whenever you gain a class feature
that grants you expert or greater proficiency in certain
weapons, you also gain that proficiency for simple and
martial bombs and firearms.
SCRUTINIZING GAZE
FEAT 13
UNCOMMON
DWARF
Access You are from Dongun Hold or Alkenstar.
Your family’s traditions of defending against Geb’s undead
have granted you a sixth sense for detecting spirits, haunts,
and other restless dead, no matter their form or the strength
of their presence. You gain a +2 circumstance bonus to
Perception checks to Sense Motive when trying to determine
if a creature is possessed or under the influence of an effect
that would make them controlled, a +2 circumstance bonus
to Perception checks made to see through disguises worn by
undead, and a +2 circumstance bonus when using the Seek
action to find hidden or undetected haunts or undead within
30 feet of you.
If you aren’t using the Seek action or searching, the GM
automatically rolls a secret check for you to notice haunts
or undead within 30 feet anyway. This check doesn’t gain
the usual +2 circumstance bonus, and instead takes a –2
circumstance penalty.
17TH LEVEL
FORGE-BLESSED SHOT [free-action]
FEAT 17
UNCOMMON
DIVINE
DWARF
Prerequisites worshipper of Torag or Angradd
Access You are from Dongun Hold or Alkenstar.
Frequency once per day
Trigger You attempt a ranged Strike.
You intone a prayer to the dwarven deities Torag or
Angradd, willing a higher power to guide your aim in the
heat of battle. On your next Strike with a ranged weapon
before the end of your turn, you gain a +2 circumstance
bonus to your attack roll and ignore your target’s concealed
condition, as well as your target’s lesser, standard, and
greater cover.
DWARVEN IDIOMS OF DONGUN HOLD
Dongun dwarves developed their own unique sayings
from their time sequestered to the caverns of Sekamina
and their cultural diffusion with Alkenstar.
Ancillary magnet: A person who winds up taking all
the credit, while not necessarily trying to do so.
Between blobs and zombies: Facing the choice of two
terrible options. While the nation of Nex isn’t quite as evil
as Geb, that didn’t help the Dongun dwarves.
Nose: A firearm barrel.
Nosy: Too quick to solve problems with a gun.
Powder my nose: Reload my black powder firearm.
Taking Arunak’s wager: Extending trust and making
oneself vulnerable to earn trust, often involving thrusting
oneself into an uncomfortable social situation. Originally
used narrowly and meant as a positive, Keepers of
the Skyflame have begun to use it more broadly and
negatively to mean making a foolish wager or bargain.
201
201
