COMBAT GEAR
Although invention thrives all across Golarion, not all
inventions have spread far. Many remain isolated, typically
due to cost, inconvenience, location, or lack of components
and materials. The weapons, combat gear, and equipment
presented below are all mechanical, non-magical, and based
off cutting-edge clockwork innovations, which occasionally
incorporate even newer, bleeding-edge steam technology.
Weapons
NEW WEAPON TRAITS
The weapons in this section use the following traits in
addition to those found on pages 282–283 of the Core
Rulebook and page 248 of the Advanced Player’s Guide.
Injection: This weapon can be filled with an injury poison.
Immediately after a successful attack with the weapon, you
can inject the target with the loaded poison with a single
Interact action. Refilling the weapon with a new substance
requires three Interact actions and uses both hands.
Repeating: These weapons can’t be loaded with
individual bolts or bullets like other crossbows and firearms;
instead, they require a magazine of specialized ammunition
to be loaded into a special slot. Once that magazine is in
place, the ammunition loads automatically each time the
weapon is cocked to fire, reducing its reload to the value
in its reload entry (typically 0). When the ammunition runs
out, a new magazine must be loaded, which requires a free
hand and 3 Interact actions (to remove the old magazine,
retrieve the new magazine, and slot the new magazine in
place). These actions don’t need to be consecutive.
WEAPON DESCRIPTIONS
BACKPACK BALLISTA
ITEM 1
UNCOMMON
This complex wooden device, worn on the back, contains a
miniature ballista on a retractable arm. As an Interact action,
you can pull a lever to deploy or retract the ballista. As long as
it remains deployed, you must hold the ballista using that hand
or some of the components spill out onto the ground, just like
dropping any other weapon. While deployed, the device opens
and raises the ballista up over your shoulder. While retracted,
62
62
