While their power and rarity make Golarion firearms
fantastical in their own right, this hasn’t stopped
engineers, craftsman, and even fey smiths from attempting
to improve the weapons or create their own versions.
Whether these fantastic weapons include the beast guns
of Arcadia, the combination weapons wielded by gunners
of the Inner Sea seeking to stretch their meager supplies of
black powder, or the goblin-forged “cobbled firearms” of
the Shackles, Golarion is home to a diverse and unlikely
array of unusual black powder weapons.
Beast Guns
Arcadia’s history of gunsmithing goes back centuries,
and Arcadia may very well have been the first
continent on Golarion in which firearms were
developed. While Arcadia’s Deadshot Lands are
famous for their rare and prestigious skymetal
guns, patterned after the star guns of old,
more common in other regions are beast
guns, created as part of a long-standing rite
of passage.
While they don’t look much like
ancient star guns and use a different kind
of magic, beast guns are particularly
notable in that, like star guns, they rely
on magic rather than black powder.
Beast guns can produce unique effects
beyond simply damaging their targets.
Beast guns aren’t loaded with the
same ammunition as other guns, but
they do still use ammunition, rather
than shooting magical energy like
a star gun. This ammunition comes
as specially designed rounds, such as miniature
tentacles fired from the tentacle gun or javelin-like
spikes from the spike gun. Unless otherwise stated, these
rounds come in packs of 10 that cost 1 sp and have
light Bulk. The only weapon in this section that works
significantly differently is the growth gun, which grows
back a gob of its own ammunition once per round,
ensuring you always have enough ammunition to fire a
shot every round.
Monster hunters of all kinds roam Arcadia slaying
beasts and harvesting their body parts to produce new
beast guns, both new examples of established models and
brand new types never seen or imagined before. Even after
thousands of years, innovators expand the possibilities of
what a beast gun can do.
The following pages contain a small sample of the
many kinds of beast guns crafted in Arcadia. Each
beast gun is a specific magic item. You can find more
information on the ritual used in hunting the beasts to
create a beast gun on page 130.
FANTASY FIREARMS
BREATH BLASTER
ITEM 8+
UNCOMMON
EVOCATION
MAGICAL
Usage held in 2 hands; Bulk 2
A breath blaster is a +1 striking blunderbuss most commonly
crafted from the trachea of a dragon, though other creatures
with breath weapons or the ability to spit energy are
occasionally used. The implementation of the dragon’s trachea
allows the firearm to unleash a torrent of pure energy in the
form of gouts of flame or bolts of electricity.
A breath blaster’s Strikes deal either acid, cold,
electricity, fire, or poison damage, depending on the dragon
type or other creature from which it was made, though
it can otherwise be used like a normal
blunderbuss. A breath blaster also can
be activated to fire a line of energy in a
30-foot line or 15-foot cone, chosen when
it’s created and typically corresponding to the
shape of the breath weapon used by the type
of dragon or creature from which the breath
blaster was created.
In theory, the foundational techniques
required to create a breath blaster would
allow for other damage types, but such
breath blasters would require the trachea
from the correct dragon or creature type
and additional creation techniques, making such a
breath blaster rare rather than uncommon.
Activate [two-actions] Interact (evocation, magical); Frequency once
per minute; Effect You fire the breath blaster, dealing 4d6
damage of the appropriate type in the appropriate area.
Creatures in the area must attempt a DC 24 basic Reflex
save (or Fortitude save if the damage is poison).
Type breath blaster; Level 8; Price 500 gp
Type greater breath blaster; Level 14; Price 4,500 gp
The greater breath blaster’s activation deals 6d6 damage and
the DC is 31. It’s a +2 greater striking blunderbuss.
Type major breath blaster; Level 18; Price 24,000 gp
The major breath blaster’s activation deals 10d6 damage, the
DC is 38, and the area increases to either a 60-foot line or
a 30-foot cone, chosen when it’s created. It’s a +3 greater
striking blunderbuss.
Craft Requirements The initial raw materials must include the
trachea of a ritually hunted dragon or other creature with a
breath weapon with the appropriate damage type and area
(line or cone) for the breath blaster.
DRAKE RIFLE
ITEM 4
UNCOMMON
EVOCATION
MAGICAL
Price 100 gp
Usage held in 2 hands; Bulk 2
A drake rifle is a firearm made from the saliva glands of
a drake. The firearm launches small bursts of empowered
spittle instead of typical rounds of ammunition. A drake rifle
154
154
Rare Breath Blaster
