defend itself easily, making it flat-footed and giving
it an additional –2 status penalty to its AC. The wall
blocks line of sight and effect unless your innovation
has half its maximum HP or fewer, at which point
holes in the wall allow creatures to see through and
attack with cover, and Tiny creatures to slip through.
Revolutionary Weapon Modifications
• Attack Refiner: Your weapon makes minute
recalibrations after every missed attack to ensure
the next lands true. Your innovation gains the
backswing and shove traits.
•	 Deadly
Strike:
Through
precise
calculation,
you’ve found the perfect shape for your weapon
to deal extreme damage on a well-placed strike.
Your innovation gains the deadly d8 trait. If your
innovation was already deadly, it increases its deadly
die to d12 instead of gaining deadly d8.
•	 Enhanced Damage: You’ve made your innovation
more powerful than other weapons of its kind.
Increase your innovation’s weapon damage die by
one step (d4 to d6, d6 to d8, d8 to d10, d10 to d12).
As normal, you can’t increase your die by more than
one size, so this modification isn’t cumulative with
complex simplicity.
•	 Extensible Weapon (Melee only): You’ve found a way
to construct your weapon so that it can extend while
leaving its balance unchanged. Your innovation
gains the reach trait. If the weapon already had the
reach trait, it increases your reach by an additional
10 feet, instead of the usual additional 5 feet.
•	 Impossible Alloy: Other inventors claim it’s not even
technically possible, but you’ve managed to create
several metal alloys that seem to work for only you.
These alloys can damage opponents vulnerable to
any one of the seven skymetals. Your innovation is
treated as all seven skymetals (abysium, adamantine,
djezet, inubrix, noqual, orichalcum, and siccatite).
This means you deal more damage to a variety of
creatures, though you don’t apply any of the other
special effects for weapons made of those skymetals.
•	 Momentum Retainer (Melee only): A special
weighted device lets your weapon retain more of
its momentum when you attack. Your innovation
gains the forceful and versatile B traits.
•	 Omnirange Stabilizers (Ranged only): You’ve
modified your innovation to be dangerous and
effective at any range. If your innovation had the
volley trait, remove the volley trait. Otherwise,
increase your innovation’s range increment by 50
feet or an amount equal to the weapon’s base range
increment, whichever is more.
•	 Rune Capacity: Whether you’ve dabbled with
orichalcum or found another engineering solution,
you’ve built your innovation in such a way that it can
hold an additional property rune. Your innovation
can have one more property rune than a normal item
of its kind (to a maximum of four property runes
with a +3 potency weapon).
INVENTIVE MASTERY
17TH
Your inventions are incredibly effective. Your proficiency
rank for your inventor class DC increases to master.
JUGGERNAUT
17TH
Your body is accustomed to physical hardship and
resistant to ailments. Your proficiency rank for Fortitude
saves increases to master. When you roll a success on a
Fortitude save, you get a critical success instead.
INFINITE INVENTION
19TH
Your ability to adjust your innovation has reached
impossible heights, and you can use these skills to make
major adjustments in your spare time. During your daily
preparations, you automatically fix your innovation if it’s
destroyed or broken, and you can change to a different
innovation (armor, construct, weapon, or other type
you have access to) and change your modifications and
offensive boost.
If you have any feats that had your previous innovation
as a prerequisite, you can’t use them until you retrain
the feats as normal. However, it takes you only 1 day of
downtime to retrain such a feat into a feat that has your
new innovation as a prerequisite, instead of 1 week.
MEDIUM ARMOR MASTERY
19TH
Your skill with armor improves, helping you avoid more
blows. Your proficiency ranks for light and medium armor,
as well as for unarmored defense, increase to master.
Inventor Feats
At every level that you gain an inventor feat, you can
select one of the following feats. You must satisfy any
prerequisites before selecting the feat.
1ST LEVEL
BUILT-IN TOOLS
FEAT 1
INVENTOR
MODIFICATION
You’ve built tools into your innovation so you can access and
use them easily. When you take this feat, choose up to two
sets of tools you own, such as thieves’ tools or healer’s tools,
that weigh a total of 2 Bulk or less. These tools become part
of your innovation. The innovation’s Bulk doesn’t increase
from this addition. As long as you are wielding, wearing, or
adjacent to your innovation, you have the same quick access
to these tools as the tools you are wearing, and they don’t
count against the usual limit of tools you can wear.
EXPLOSIVE LEAP [one-action]
FEAT 1
FIRE
INVENTOR
MOVE
UNSTABLE
You aim an explosion from your innovation downward to
24
24
