UTILITY GEAR
Weaponry might be one of the flashiest forms of
clockwork technology, but it’s far from the only one.
For every inventor who devotes his labors to creating
clockwork instruments of destruction, there are ten
others who focus on creating devices which average
people can use to make life easier and more enjoyable.
These machines, built for society rather than
adventurers, are arguably more impactful than even
the most powerful weapon, for they affect thousands of
lives every day. Major trade centers reap these rewards
as inventors from far-flung lands meet and share their
methods and designs. As innovations from different
regions mingle, each breakthrough enables the next at a
quicker rate.
AQUARIUM LAMP
ITEM 8
UNCOMMON
ELECTRICITY
LIGHT
Bulk 20
Price 1,500 gp
Activate [one-action] Interact
The aquarium lamp is a combination light source and exotic
animal aquarium, intended to provide rich nobles amusement
and illumination. It takes the shape of a glass cube 50 feet
wide and seven feet high filled with sea water, flanked by
two much smaller water tanks. A sparse brass frame around
the device keeps the tanks themselves from touching the
ground and serves as a mounting point for a pair of electrical
coils on the top, which are enclosed within separate glass
tubes. Six electric eels swim within the central tank, while
a number of animals belonging to species considered to be
the eels’ natural prey swim in the smaller feeding tanks.
With the simple pull of a lever attached to either smaller
tank, one of the prey animals is released into the eel tank.
Within seconds, the eels converge on the hapless animal,
using their electrical charges to stun their victims. When this
happens, the salty seawater conducts the electrical energy
into transfer coils hidden within the brass frame, which send
the energy to the top-mounted electrical coils. The end result
produces enough light to fully illuminate a room as though
it were midday.
This device is an expression of a recent trend among
certain Avistani nobles to blend form and function in their
84
84
