Introduction
Gears
Characters
Gears
Equipment
Guns
Characters
Guns
Equipment
The Rotating
Gear
Glossary
And Index
Guns &
GEARS
The wearer gains 30 temporary Hit Points that last for 1 hour
or until lost.
Type true; Level 19; Price 8,000 gp
The wearer gains 40 temporary Hit Points that last for 1 hour
or until lost.
ABLATIVE SHIELD PLATING
ITEM 1+
UNCOMMON
CONSUMABLE
GADGET
Usage attached to a shield; Bulk 1
Ablative shield plating is an amalgam device that provides
a layer of additional protection for a shield. Ablative shield
plating is cobbled together from parts of other shields, wires,
scraps, and bits of detritus, adding mass to a shield. The
process of attaching ablative shield plating takes 10 minutes,
and you can’t attach ablative shield plating to a shield that has
any other attached item, such as a shield boss or shield spikes.
When the shield is damaged, this additional material crumples,
breaks, and falls apart, absorbing some of the energy of
the blow. Otherwise, the additional material slowly
crumbles over time. Applying the plating grants
the shield temporary Hit Points that last for the
stated duration or until lost. Removing the plating
early destroys it.
Type lesser; Level 1; Price 4 gp
The shield gains 5 temporary Hit Points that last
for 1 minute or until lost.
Type moderate; Level 3; Price 12 gp
The shield gains 10 temporary Hit Points that
last for 10 minutes or until lost.
Type greater; Level 7; Price 70 gp
The shield gains 20 temporary Hit
Points that last for 1 hour or until lost.
Type major; Level 13; Price 600 gp
The shield gains 30 temporary Hit Points that
last for 1 hour or until lost.
Type true; Level 19; Price 8,000 gp
The shield gains 40 temporary Hit Points that last for 1 hour
or until lost.
BLAST BOOTS
ITEM 1
UNCOMMON
CONSUMABLE
GADGET
Usage worn (attached to footwear or feet); Bulk L
Activate [one-action] Interact
These sets of rockets come in pairs and strap onto existing
footwear (or a creature’s feet). Inserting them and aligning
them properly takes 1 minute. When you Activate the blast
boots, you can High Jump or Long Jump, without the need to
Stride first. Higher-level versions increase the distance of your
High Jump or Long Jump.
Type lesser; Level 1; Price 3 gp
Type moderate; Level 3; Price 11 gp
When you Activate the moderate blast boots to High Jump, you
can increase the vertical distance of your High Jump by up to 30
feet. When you Activate them to Long Jump, you can increase
the horizontal distance of your Long Jump by up to 45 feet.
Type greater; Level 9; Price 140 gp
When you Activate the greater blast boots to High Jump, you
can increase the vertical distance of your High Jump by up
to 50 feet. When you Activate them to Long Jump, you can
increase the horizontal distance of your Long Jump by up to
75 feet. Additionally, for 1 minute, the greater blast boots
continue to boost your jumps. Every time you Leap during
the duration, you can move 30 feet in any direction, or your
normal Leap distance, whichever is further.
Type major; Level 17; Price 2,750 gp
When you Activate the major blast boots to High Jump, you
can increase the vertical distance of your High Jump by up
to 80 feet. When you Activate them to Long Jump, you can
increase the horizontal distance of your Long Jump by up
to 120 feet. Additionally, for 1 minute, the major blast boots
remain active, allowing you to clumsily fly through the air for
the duration. You gain a 30-foot Fly speed for the duration,
but any time you Fly, you are clumsy 1 until the start of your
next turn.
CAUTERIZING TORCH
ITEM 2
UNCOMMON
CONSUMABLE
GADGET
Price 10 gp
Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk L
Activate [one-action] Interact
This small, clockwork torch device uses a
trigger-operated sparker to ignite a flow of
flammable gas, creating a short, hot flame
capable of rapidly cauterizing wounds and
helping to stop bleeding. The cauterizing
torch is applied to yourself or an adjacent
target. The target attempts an immediate flat
check to end any persistent bleed effect with
the lower DC for particularly effective assistance
(Core Rulebook 62).
CHAMELEON SUIT
ITEM 4+
UNCOMMON
CLOCKWORK
CONSUMABLE
GADGET
Usage worn over armor and clothes; Bulk L
Activate [two-actions] Interact
This complex clockwork outerwear, worn over armor or
other clothing, is composed of thin, interlocking scales of
myriad colors attached to numerous clockwork gears that
can rotate between all visible colors and shades.
When activated, the clockwork gears work double-time
to temporarily switch and adjust the scales to match the
exact coloration of the area around you, allowing you to
blend in as long as you stay still. For the duration, you can
Hide without needing cover or concealment to do so. This
doesn’t allow you to Sneak without ending your movement
in cover or concealment, however, as the clockwork flips
over and adjusts the scales to match your background as
you move, giving the impression of rippling waves of color
and revealing your movement. Once the duration expires,
the overworked clockwork and scales fall apart.
Type chameleon suit; Level 4; Price 16 gp
The effect lasts for 1 minute.
67
67
Blast Boots
