from your foes’ attacks. Any two-handed firearms and
two-handed crossbows you wield gain the parry trait. If an
appropriate weapon already has the parry trait, increase the
circumstance bonus to AC it grants when used to parry from
+1 to +2.
FAKE OUT [reaction]
FEAT 2
GUNSLINGER
VISUAL
Trigger An ally is about to use an action that requires an
attack roll, targeting a creature within your weapon’s first
range increment.
Requirements You’re wielding a loaded firearm or crossbow.
With a skilled flourish of your weapon, you force an enemy to
acknowledge you as a threat. Make an attack roll to Aid the
triggering attack. If you dealt damage to that enemy with the
same weapon since the start of your last turn, you gain a +1
circumstance bonus to this roll.
PISTOL TWIRL [one-action]
FEAT 2
GUNSLINGER
Prerequisites trained in Deception
Requirements You’re wielding a loaded one-handed ranged
weapon.
Your quick gestures and flair for performance distract your
opponent, leaving it vulnerable to your follow-up attacks.
You Feint against an opponent within the required weapon’s
first range increment, rather than an opponent within melee
reach. If you succeed, the foe is flat-footed against your melee
and ranged attacks, rather than only your melee attacks. On
a critical failure, you’re flat-footed against the target’s melee
and ranged attacks, rather than only its melee attacks.
QUICK DRAW [one-action]
FEAT 2
GUNSLINGER
You draw your weapon and attack with the same motion. You
Interact to draw a weapon, then Strike with that weapon.
RISKY RELOAD [one-action]
FEAT 2
FLOURISH
GUNSLINGER
Requirements You’re wielding a firearm.
You’ve practiced a technique for rapidly reloading your
firearm, but attempting to use this technique is a dangerous
gamble with your firearm’s functionality. Interact to reload
a firearm, then make a Strike with that firearm. If the Strike
fails, the firearm misfires.
WARNING SHOT [one-action]
FEAT 2
GUNSLINGER
Prerequisites trained in Intimidation
Requirements You’re wielding a loaded firearm.
Who needs words when the roar of a gun is so much more
succinct? You attempt to Demoralize a foe by firing your
weapon into the air, using the firearm’s maximum range rather
than the usual range of 30 feet. This check doesn’t take the
–4 circumstance penalty if the target doesn’t share a language
with you.
4TH LEVEL
ALCHEMICAL SHOT [two-actions]
FEAT 4
GUNSLINGER
Requirements You have an alchemical bomb worn or in one
hand, and are wielding a firearm or crossbow in the other.
You’ve practiced a technique for mixing alchemical bombs
with your loaded shot. You Interact to retrieve the bomb
(if it’s not already in your hand) and pour its contents onto
your ammunition, consuming the bomb. Next, Strike with
your firearm. The Strike deals damage of the same type as
the bomb (for instance, fire damage for alchemist’s fire),
and it deals an additional 1d6 persistent damage of the
same type as the bomb. If the Strike is a failure, you take
1d6 damage of the same type as the bomb you used, and
the firearm misfires.
The persistent damage increases to 2d6 if the bomb is 11th
level or higher, or 3d6 if it’s 17th level or higher.
BLACK POWDER BOOST [one-action] OR [two-actions]
FEAT 4
GUNSLINGER
Requirements You’re wielding a loaded firearm.
You fire your weapon as you jump, using the kickback to go
farther. You Leap and discharge your firearm to add a +10-foot
status bonus to the distance traveled. If you spend 2 actions
for Black Powder Boost, you High Jump or Long Jump instead.
Special An ability that allows you to High Jump or Long Jump
as a single action (like the Quick Jump skill feat) lets you use
Black Powder Boost as a single action for those jumps as well.
INSTANT BACKUP [reaction]
FEAT 4
GUNSLINGER
Trigger Your attack with a firearm misfires.
Even as your firearm misfires, you quickly draw a backup
weapon. Release the misfired weapon if you so choose, and
Interact to draw a one-handed weapon.
PAIRED SHOTS [two-actions]
FEAT 4
GUNSLINGER
Requirements You’re wielding two weapons, each of which
can be either a loaded one-handed firearm or loaded
one‑handed crossbow.
Your shots hit simultaneously. Make two Strikes, one with each
of your two ranged weapons, each using your current multiple
attack penalty. Both Strikes must have the same target.
If both attacks hit, combine their damage and then add
any applicable effects from both weapons. You add any
precision damage, only once, to the attack of your choice.
Combine the damage from both Strikes and apply resistances
and weaknesses only once. This counts as two attacks when
calculating your multiple attack penalty.
RUNNING RELOAD [one-action]
FEAT 4
GUNSLINGER
You can reload your weapon on the move. You Stride, Step, or
Sneak, then Interact to reload.
112
112
