Introduction
Gears
Characters
Gears
Equipment
Guns
Characters
Guns
Equipment
The Rotating
Gear
Glossary
And Index
Guns &
GEARS
Once you’ve locked on to a target, little can obscure your
aim. Make a ranged weapon Strike against the required
target. This Strike ignores the target’s concealed condition
and reduces the flat check for the hidden condition from 11
to 5.
DEADEYE [one-action]
FEAT 12
CONCENTRATION
GUNSLINGER
You relax your eyes, taking in the smallest movements of
objects, stirring of grass and leaves, and other signs of the
presence of hidden things, granting you the ability to locate
invisible creatures. Until the start of your next turn, you can
see invisible creatures and objects as silhouettes defined by
the movement of air, slight depressions in the ground, and
other tells that less-keen eyes would overlook, which makes
them merely concealed from you.
FLESH WOUND [one-action]
FEAT 12
GUNSLINGER
You fire to ensure that even if your shot doesn’t land cleanly, it
still lands close enough to deal some damage. Make a ranged
Strike. It gains the following effect on a failure (though not a
critical failure).
Failure Though your attack misses, it still deals one die of
damage plus any damage from your weapon specialization
class feature. This uses your weapon’s normal damage die
and damage type. This attack doesn’t add extra damage
from any other sources or abilities.
RICOCHET SHOT [one-action]
FEAT 12
CONCENTRATE
GUNSLINGER
You bounce your shot off a nearby surface to strike your
opponent from an unexpected angle. When determining
whether a target has cover from your ranged attack with a
firearm or crossbow, you can choose one solid surface within
your weapon’s first range increment to ricochet your shot off
of. If you do, you determine the target’s cover from the point
where you ricochet your shot instead of from you.
SHATTERING SHOT [one-action]
FEAT 12
GUNSLINGER
Requirements You’re wielding a loaded firearm or loaded
crossbow and are wearing or holding an alchemical bomb.
You fling a bomb into the air and then shoot it with your gun
before it falls, raining destruction down over a wide area. If
necessary, you Interact to draw the bomb and regrip your
weapon. You throw your bomb to the corner of a square within
your firearm’s first range increment and shoot it with your
firearm. All creatures in a 15-foot burst of the bomb take the
bomb’s normal damage with a basic Reflex save against your
class DC. They don’t take any splash or persistent damage the
bomb would deal normally.
SHOOTER’S CAMOUFLAGE
FEAT 12
GUNSLINGER
Prerequisites master in Stealth
You specialize in blending into a particular type of environment,
able to disappear after taking your shot. Choose either natural
or urban terrain. In the chosen terrain, you can Hide and Sneak
even without cover or being concealed.
UNSHAKABLE GRIT
FEAT 12
GUNSLINGER
Prerequisites Grit and Tenacity
You’ve become hardened by conflict after everything you’ve
faced, and you possess a certain intractable stubbornness. If
the reroll granted to you by your Grit and Tenacity reaction
is a success, you get a critical success instead; if it’s a critical
failure, you get a failure instead.
14TH LEVEL
BLAST TACKLE [two-actions]
FEAT 14
GUNSLINGER
Prerequisites way of the vanguard
Requirements You’re wielding a two-handed crossbow or a
firearm that has the kickback or scatter trait.
You throw yourself at an enemy, bracing your weapon
against it and pulling it close before releasing a destructive
shot. Attempt to Grapple; if you’re wielding your weapon in
both hands, you Release one hand to do so. If your Grapple
succeeds, you can immediately Strike the target of the Grapple
with the required weapon, even if it’s a two-handed weapon
you’re holding in one hand. This Strike deals an additional 3d6
precision damage.
As long the creature remains grabbed or restrained, you
can use just one hand to reload the weapon and Strike that
creature with it.
COME AT ME!
FEAT 14
GUNSLINGER
Prerequisites Pistolero’s Challenge
You’re a legendary duelist, welcoming all challengers, enabling
you to challenge many foes even while other challenges are
active. There is no longer a limit to the number of Pistolero’s
Challenges you can have in effect at one time.
DANCE OF THUNDER [three-actions]
FEAT 14
CONCENTRATE
GUNSLINGER
Frequency once per minute
Requirements You’re wielding a loaded firearm or crossbow
and are not fatigued.
Your steps echo with the thunderous retort of exploding
black powder as you dance a dance of death. Take any of the
following actions you choose in any order: Step, Strike against
a target within your firearm’s first range increment, and
Interact to reload. If you attempted a Strike and it succeeded,
you can repeat these three actions again in any order. If you
attempted a Strike in the second set and succeeded, you can
repeat the actions one last time.
After using Dance of Thunder, you become fatigued for
1 minute.
117
117
