Artillerist
“Load Pathfinders, load! That fey-blighted moth will be
coming around for another pass quick as a blink and
if we don’t meet it with a rain of cannon fire, you’ll be
wishing you had a diving suit like mine. Steady the aim
there! Steady... fire!”
—Khoumrock Blackthorne, captain of the Unsinkable
and self-proclaimed slayer of “giant evil moth gods.”
The artillerist’s maxim holds that while fights might
be won with swords, battles are won with cannons.
Or in a pinch, with trebuchets, siege towers, catapults,
hwachas, and all other lethal miscellanea of a combat
engineers’ corp. As a true artillerist, you leave the
penny-ante pistols and knives to those who only need
to operate on a small scale. You’re a consummate
professional in the art of big guns, a maestro at merging
mathematics and manpower to transform whatever
castle wall, infantry battalion, or rampaging dragon
offends you into a smoking crater in the ground.
You’re not just some daredevil demolitionist, though.
You’re part of a team, accustomed to coordinating with
your unit to maximize your time and effectiveness.
Whether jumping in to help your crew load the next
round, quickly calculating the trajectory of the engine’s
next shot, or taking the shot yourself, your presence
on the team ensures their chances of success are
maximized, creating a whole that is greater than the
sum of its parts.
ARTILLERIST DEDICATION
FEAT 2
ARCHETYPE
DEDICATION
Prerequisites trained in martial weapons
Artillery is a team sport, where every member of the crew
has to rely on the other members. At best, a mistake might
just waste time. At worst, a misaligned fuse or a badly set pin
could cause the whole thing to explode. You’ve taken these
lessons to heart, and so your presence on an artillery team
assists the entire team at every aspect of the siege weapon’s
deployment and usage. If you’re serving on a siege weapon
crew, you and all other members gain a +2 circumstance
bonus to any checks to Load, Aim, move, or Repair the
weapon. When you Aim a siege weapon, you can move the
weapon’s aim twice as far as normal.
Special You can’t select another dedication feat until
you’ve gained at least two other feats from the artillerist
archetype.
NAMED ARTILLERY
FEAT 4
ARCHETYPE
SKILL
Prerequisites trained in Crafting
It is a tradition among artillerists to name the siege
weapon most important to them and closest to
their heart—much as a sailor on a ship, the weapon
is their livelihood. You’ve gone a step further,
and you always make sure that your named
artillery has the best possible maintenance and
upkeep. You can spend a full day adjusting and
working on a single siege weapon to designate
it as your named artillery. The siege weapon you
designated as your named artillery gains a +2
circumstance bonus to AC, Fortitude saves, and
Reflex saves as well as additional Hit Points equal to twice
your level.
During your daily preparations, you must spend at least
one hour on maintenance to service your named artillery.
If you fail to do so, or if you spend a full day designating a
new piece of named artillery, the previous named artillery
loses any benefits from this feat. Only one artillerist
can designate a particular siege weapon as their named
artillery, even if several artillerists are serving on the same
siege weapon’s crew (though it’s typically more efficient
for a group with several artillerists to divide them up,
assigning one to each siege weapon).
128
128
