Type greater magnifying scope; Level 9; Price 800 gp
The item bonus is +2, and activating the scope increases the
range increment by 10 feet.
Type major magnifying scope; Level 17; Price 16,000 gp
The item bonus is +3, and activating the scope increases the
range increment by 20 feet.
SCOPE OF LIMNING
ITEM 10
MAGICAL
TRANSMUTATION
Price 900 gp
Usage attached to firearm (scope); Bulk L
The dwarven gunsmiths of Dongun Hold originally created
these scopes to help them clear out vermin in underground
areas. This scope captures the sound that echoes off a
creature hit by the firearm and transforms it into light,
illuminating the target for all to see.
Activate [one-action] Interact (auditory, light, transmutation); Effect
If your next Strike from the weapon to which the scope
is attached hits a creature, the sound of the impact
transforms into light, causing the creature to glow
until the end of your next turn. A visible creature can’t
be concealed while they glow. If a creature is invisible,
they’re concealed while glowing, rather than being
undetected. Because the effect requires a solid impact,
incorporeal creatures are unaffected unless the bullet can
deal force damage or has the effects of the ghost
touch property rune.
SCOPE OF TRUTH
ITEM 13
DIVINATION
MAGICAL
Price 3,000 gp
Usage attached to firearm or crossbow (scope); Bulk L
The scope of truth is a bit bigger than most to
accommodate larger lenses, which have been magically
prepared with tiny shards from crystal balls to reveal the
truth. The scope grants you a +2 item bonus to Perception
checks made to Seek in areas you can see through the
scope.
Activate [two-actions] Interact; Frequency Once per day; Effect
For the next 10 minutes, you can see things through
the scope as they actually are. The GM rolls a secret
counteract check with a +20 counteract modifier and a
counteract level of 7 against any illusion or
transmutation in the area, but only for the
purpose of determining whether you see
through it, not to end the spell or effect. For instance, if
the check succeeds against a polymorph spell, you can
see the creature’s true form, but you don’t end the spell.
STABILIZERS
The ferocious kickback of firearms is part of the
functionality that makes them so appealing as weapons,
but it can also present a barrier in wielding them
effectively. To increase the functionality of firearms
and make them more accessible to a wider audience,
gunsmiths and engineers have created a large array
of supporting stabilization over the years. From the
humble tripod (page 179) to more elaborate arrays like
the gunner’s saddle, these tools can be an invaluable
part of any gunner’s loadout.
GUNNER’S SADDLE
ITEM 2
UNCOMMON
Price 20 gp
Usage worn saddle; Bulk 2
Developed by marauders from the Mana Wastes, this
clockwork saddle comes with a retractable weapon mount
that can be used as a tripod to stabilize a weapon with the
kickback trait. Just like a normal tripod, you Interact to
deploy the tripod to stabilize the firearm, and then again
to retract the tripod to move it. The saddle uses complex
hydraulics to protect the steed from the firearm’s recoil.
IMMOVABLE TRIPOD
ITEM 10
UNCOMMON
MAGICAL
TRANSMUTATION
Price 700 gp
Bulk 1
This copper tripod with an immovable rod at its core is a
perfect example of engineering ingenuity applied to magic
items, adapting the eccentric power of an immovable rod
for the pragmatic use of stabilizing weapons without the
need for solid ground on which to stabilize them. In
addition to extraplanar and aquatic environments,
these devices have seen use by flying and climbing
snipers who would otherwise have no way to
mitigate their weapons’ fierce kickback.
Activate [one-action] Interact; Effect You deploy the tripod
and press a button to lock it into place via the
immovable rod, allowing you to deploy the tripod in
midair, underwater, or anywhere else where you don’t
have a solid horizontal surface available. If you Activate
the tripod by pushing the button again, you release and
retrieve the tripod. While anchored, the tripod can be
moved only if 8,000 pounds of pressure are applied to
it or if a creature uses Athletics to Force Open the tripod
with a DC of 40 (though most intelligent creatures can
just push the button to release the tripod).
PORTABLE WEAPON MOUNT
ITEM 1+
UNCOMMON
Bulk 1
Powerful firearms like the arquebus were originally used
to defend fortifications or ships, mounted on casements
or pintles to steady their aim and offset their recoil. More
mobile means of stabilizing weapons with kickback were
developed as firearms began to spread across the Inner Sea.
The standard tripod takes an Interact action to deploy using
one hand.
Type monopod; Level 1; Price 2 sp
Monopods are lighter and can be deployed with a single
hand using the same action as drawing the firearm. They
still require an Interact action to retrieve. Monopods are
182
182
Portable Weapon Mount
