Introduction
Gears
Characters
Gears
Equipment
Guns
Characters
Guns
Equipment
The Rotating
Gear
Glossary
And Index
Guns &
GEARS
ANCESTRIES
CLASSES
AUTOMATON
INVENTOR
GUNSLINGER
Automatons are immortal constructs
infused with living souls who often
believe they serve a grand purpose.
The inventor battles enemies with a
groundbreaking innovation only they
can use.
Gunslingers use firearms and
crossbows to perform trick shots
and take down their enemies while
remaining at a safe distance.
ABILITY BOOSTS
KEY ABILITY SCORE*
Strength, Free
Intelligence
Dexterity
ABILITY FLAW
SECONDARY ABILITY SCORES
—
Strength or Dexterity
Constitution, Strength
* A character receives an ability boost to their class’s key ability score.
the correct circumstances than a weapon with a similar
damage die while still maintaining a balanced gaming
ecosystem that allows each player to shine.
ARMOR AND PERSISTENT TECHNOLOGY
In Golarion, technology has moved much slower than
on Earth. Many modern conveniences still have yet to be
invented or discovered. That doesn’t mean technology has
stood still, however. Because certain types of technology
persisted for centuries on Golarion instead of being
replaced as they were on Earth, many fantastic innovations
remain prevalent since competing technologies developed
more slowly or didn’t spread as quickly.
While clockwork dragons and alchemical boots that
rocket their wearer through the sky are manifestations
of less frequent technological replacement, many other,
more subtle examples are scattered throughout the
game. At its height in the 16th century, a suit of full
plate could stop even the penetrating power, if not the
full force, of a shot from a firearm, though its expense
and weight made it impractical for all but the wealthiest
of individuals. Golarion, on the other hand, is a fantasy
world where dragons and other supernatural monsters
with destructive power akin to or in excess of a firearm
are relatively common, and where adventurers accrue
great wealth that they constantly reinvest into better
arms and armor. Moreover, Golarion’s armaments can
be enhanced with magical runes that elevate them far
beyond anything that could be replicated on Earth
without the application of advanced technology from
beyond the age of swords and plate armor.
Similarly for lighter armors, on Earth, techniques for
incorporating silk that can stop bullets from penetrating
into armor and other techniques for creating bullet-resistant
armaments, such as painting layers of paper with lacquer to
create a rudimentary analogue to modern-day Kevlar, have
existed for a very long time, but didn’t often come into
popular use before evolving into a form that is no longer
recognizable. Several nations in Tian Xia have techniques
for creating black powder weapons, like the hand cannon
and fire lance, and lacquered armor. The intersection of
these technologies means it’s not unlikely to find variants
of studded leather armor or chainmail lined with layers
of such early bulletproofing. In Avistan and the Inner Sea,
knights who have encountered firearms imported or stolen
from Alkenstar likely know armorers who know techniques
to craft layered plates and silk surcoats or undergarments
that provide additional protection from bullets.
ALCHEMY’S INFLUENCE ON TECHNOLOGY
Considering that certain technologies have seen more
refinement or followed divergent development paths
7
