Introduction
Gears
Characters
Gears
Equipment
Guns
Characters
Guns
Equipment
The Rotating
Gear
Glossary
And Index
Guns &
GEARS
expanding their holdings or their influence. They traded
with a few trusted outsiders, and stories of brave travelers
seeking out a mountaintop monastery to bargain for a
star gun show up in many Arcadian folk tales, such as
Banjara’s Climb and Janshar’s Bold Request. The bustling
city of High Klesh is built around the ruins of the lowest
monastery; its human and halfling inhabitants are wealthy
from relics the Crowned Regents left behind, and the city’s
Spire Council members are each armed with a star gun.
Other monasteries can be found utterly abandoned or
inhabited by dangerous monsters; the Crowned Regents
have vanished into the mists of history and legend.
Today, star guns are exceedingly rare. Discovery of an
intact star gun is a monumental event, and rumors of lost
star guns have inspired generations of treasure-hunters.
Though these fabulous guns are all but gone, the Star Code
has trickled down into modern-day legal code throughout
Arcadia, providing protections to the dispossessed and
downtrodden. The legends of the gunkeepers and their
deeds loom large in Arcadian taletelling.
Lore of the Gun
Guns command respect and authority across Arcadia, a
legacy of the power of the star guns and the gunslingers
who lived the Code. Most people across the continent
have never seen an actual star gun; they know of these
ancient weapons only through legends. This legacy has
proven a fertile ground for invention. For millennia,
inventive and determined Arcadians have devised similar
weapons for generations to capitalize on the power and
prestige of star guns. These guns are the weapons that
now, most commonly, outfit those in authority, or are
wielded by those who challenge that authority.
Technological innovation is at its highest in the
region known as Three Craters, where soot-spewing
factories have an endless appetite for ore. These factories
produce an astonishing number of the most sophisticated
technological marvels on the continent. For centuries,
Three Craters produced air-powered pistols and rifles
that suffered from short range and insufficient stopping
power; as obviously inferior imitations of star guns,
these weapons were of limited use as anything other
than status symbols. About a decade ago, however, new
skymetal forging techniques made their way to Three
Craters. The city’s ruling Smog Lords immediately had
their greatest inventors reverse-engineer these reborn
star guns to replicate them. The conniving Smog Lords
initially tried to keep firearms for their exclusive use;
they realized their edge would disappear if superior guns
became publicly available. Their petulant animosity and
relentless double-dealing meant it wasn’t long before the
secrets of skymetal firearm creation spread to engineers
across the city-state. Factory owners quickly repurposed
their facilities to mass-produce skymetal firearms.
Fierce competition drove costs down and reliability
up, and firearms are now commonplace throughout
Three Craters. They have spread to many places beyond,
even as far as imperialist Razatlan in the distant south
and the subterranean kingdoms of Braskoff to the north.
Further from north-central Arcadia, the hybrid magic
and technology skymetal guns give way to more purely
magical firearms tied to ancient Arcadian traditions;
at the continent’s furthest extremes, magical tradition
is so prevalent that sophisticated technology is as rare
as it is unnecessary. Even among cultures that develop
magic rather than technology, gun lore dating back to
the star guns runs strong. Instead of creating guns from
steel, many of these cultures learned to fashion guns
from bone and magically altered flesh. Millennia ago,
these innovators learned that incorporating components
from powerful monsters made their guns more powerful,
producing creations such as dragon’s-throat firebelchers
and manticore-spike rifles. These beast guns are wholly
different from both the ancient arcane star guns and the
technological marvels of air guns, and their bearers carry
their unique and potent weapons with the honor and
pride common among Arcadian gunslingers.
Over the centuries, wizard-lords and arcane academies
across Arcadia have claimed to unlock the secrets of re-
creating star guns. (These claims are particularly common
in the magocracy of Heyopan, whose Nine Dynasties vie
for political supremacy.) While these skymetal firearms
and their magical firing mechanisms are certainly
impressive, they are not true star guns. Recreation efforts
occasionally produce truly bizarre guns, such as pistols
that use bound elementals to compress air and eject fiery
pellets of metal, rifles that launch bullets of concentrated
daylight, or shotguns that spew fragments of souls. These
inventions are rarely replicable on a large scale and are
often rushed, making for unreliable operation at best and
even a few disastrous mishaps. Yet, a determined hero or
even a curious traveler has a fair chance of locating—or
commissioning—a truly unique gun.
The Deadshot Lands
Arcadia is home to myriad nations, from icy Vallenhall
far to the north, past hero-forged Xopatl near the central
gulfs, all the way to the southern Ghostlands. Guns are
most prevalent in the region known as the Deadshot
Lands in north-central Arcadia, where the lore of the star
guns remains strongest. This region resembles an open
book lying face-down; the Mildanesi Mountains, where
the Crowned Regents once produced their peerless crafts,
run from north to south along its center. Deserts sprawl
to the west, and fertile plains and forests to the east. Each
of these regions echoes with the lore of guns, but these
echoes resound in different ways.
BRIARBOUGH
For untold ages, the vast forest of Briarbough has been the
home of beastkin who live in a loose coalition of treetop
settlements. The beastkin mark their holdings with stone
207
207
