of intact bodies. Ordinarily, necromantic magic powers
this grisly array, but when its captain wishes to steer
the Reaper past wards or creatures that might detect
an undead presence, the ship switches to the galvanic
power of its Stasian coils to animate the arms instead.
Steel-masked and silent, the Reaper’s captain is a
mystery. It is not even certain whether the captain is a
living person, or an automaton built to disguise the fact
that the Reaper might command itself. All that is known
is that the Reaper is a partially undead monstrosity
that seems driven to destroy other undead, which it
attacks with aerial bombardments of
incendiary bombs, corrosive gases, or
flesh-eating acids.
Stormcrow’s Curse is a sleek, black
vessel with a crow’s head at its prow
and wings painted on its sides. Its
captain is Jacquinde Stormcrow, a
half-orc woman with a pierced lip
and a signature cloak of iridescent
black
feathers.
Though
she
cultivates a forbidding persona,
the captain is more enigmatic than
malign. Using her spyglass to locate
promising candidates, she swoops
down on battlefields bordering
Belkzen
and
the
Gravelands,
offering survivors safe transport on her airship in
exchange for valuables, favors, or information, much of
it concerning the Hungry Mountains. Jacquinde’s odd
requests and the rumors that spread from those she’s
saved suggest that she seeks something hidden, and that
she built her airship to reach it.
While other inventors have attempted to build and
launch airships of their own, so far none of these
endeavors have succeeded, and more than a few have
ended in spectacular disaster. For now, only two dirigibles
float over Ustalav, and though their paths must surely
have crossed—given the technical feats involved in each
one’s flight—the two always drift separately through the
night sky, their silhouettes stark against the cold moon.
THE MASTER OF THE MOON
Professor Gregorias Desmaske, a onetime professor
of natural sciences at the University of Lepidstadt,
claims to have discovered a technique for harnessing
the power of Stasian coils to create an effect he calls
“lunar magnetism.” Gregorias has created pendants of
magnetite and moonstone linked by metallic coils that
he claims can block the affliction of lycanthropy, and
even “paralyze” natural lycanthropes into one form or
the other.
Other experts in Stasian technology publicly doubt
Gregorias’s claims, asserting that there is no connection
between the electromagnetism of Stasian coils and
the lunar tides that exert such a dramatic effect on
afflicted lycanthropes. Moreover, this is not the first time
Gregorias has advanced questionable science; he lost
his position at the University of Lepidstadt following a
tragic accident in which a young student was horribly
maimed, and a fellow professor killed. The incident was
widely viewed as preventable, and perhaps even less
than accidental. Gregorias departed the university soon
thereafter under a heavy cloud of suspicion, though
official records all state he left to focus on his research
and the university has hushed up any further details.
Despite the professor’s dubious reputation, cursed
lycanthropes and their loved ones are often desperate
enough to offer sizable sums for one of Gregorias’s
lunar magnets. And at least on the surface it does seem
that they work, whether by Stasian technology or other
means. Several lycanthropes have broken through the
shame and silence of their conditions to give glowing
testimonials to the lunar magnets’ benefits.
Yet none of these lycanthropes
has remained a public face
for long. Although new
beneficiaries
regularly
appear to tout Gregorias’s
miracle cure, earlier patients
vanish within a few months, at
most, after first donning a lunar
magnet. The professor claims that this
is because, having been cured, they wish to
return to their private lives without further disturbance.
He has declined to give any further information.
THE GROBELARCH
The
Grobelarch,
an
early
attempt
at
creating
mechanized armor, originated as a project to create a
suit of extraordinarily heavy, thrice-reinforced plate
interwoven with Stasian coils. Powered joints would
enable the wearer to move within the impossibly
bulky suit, electrified spikes would cover the plates in
a crackling defensive array, and concentrator coils on
the gauntlets would allow the wearer to channel the
electrical pulses into incapacitating or even lethal bolts.
That, at least, was the plan. From the beginning,
however, the armor was ill fated. Early versions lacked
sufficient insulation and overheated or fatally shocked
their wearers. Gauntlet misfires and wrenched neck
joints claimed the lives of other testers. Later, as the
accidents grew both grislier and unlikelier, those
working on the Grobelarch came to believe that the
armor had absorbed enough misery and death that it
had attained a cursed sentience and a murderous will
of its own. Created for war, it seemed to understand
nothing else.
Eventually, the workers rebelled against their patron
and tried to destroy the armor, only to find that their
fears were well founded. The Grobelarch, acting under
its own power, killed half a dozen metalworkers and
228
228
