The Balance of Power
In 4715 AR, Captain Tessa Fairwind (CN female half-elf
pirate) unseated the former leader of the Pirate Council,
the Hurricane King Kerdak Bonefist, and took his place,
leading her fleet against an invading armada from
Cheliax and ending the battle with an overwhelming
victory. Captain Fairwind’s bravado and derring-do
impressed many a ship’s company, most of whom see her
as a near-mythical figure befitting her title of Hurricane
Queen. By contrast, many of the Free Captains (and even
some on the Pirate Council) are concerned by her risky
behavior and wonder how long Captain Fairwind’s luck
will last. Even those without the backbone for an outright
coup are positioning themselves for the day when news of
Captain Fairwind’s untimely death finally arrives.
In the bloody battles that led to her new title as
Hurricane Queen, Captain Fairwind saw firsthand the
power of cannons at sea, and she realized that it would
change the nature of naval power forever. Seizing the
opportunity and momentum gained by her victory
over the Chelaxian armada, she set about arming as
many Shackles vessels with cannons and black powder
bombards as she possibly could. With many nations vying
for the relatively limited supply of heavy guns stolen or
smuggled from Alkenstar, Captain Fairwind couldn’t
obtain the required number of guns for her fleet through
commerce alone, a fact that suited her daredevil nature
particularly well.
Beginning in late 4719 AR, Shackles pirates began
raiding cargo vessels carrying newly forged cannons
to Vidrian with uncanny foresight, despite Vidrian’s
attempts to use troops and naval vessels to protect
their precious (and dangerous) cargo. Thus, many of
the cannons purchased by Vidrian specifically to defend
against the pirate threat ended up arming pirate vessels
instead. An intensive investigation by Alkenstar revealed
that agents of the Hurricane Queen had infiltrated
not only every port used for the trade, but even the
Gunworks itself, allowing Shackles pirates to claim the
guns before they reached their buyers. Around the same
time, Shackles pirates began offering a choice to the gun
crews of any ships they captured: join the pirates or die.
Either way, they reduced the trained gun crew available
to their enemies and simultaneously helped address the
shortage of trained gun crew among pirates. This did,
however, have a side effect of increasing the rate of gun
crew mutinies, which have become a growing problem.
In response to these raids, Vidrian began sending
troops to escort cannons on a long and dangerous
overland journey to try to avoid the pirates’ schemes,
recruiting brave adventurers to protect the cannons
after thoroughly vetting the adventurers to ensure they
weren’t in the Hurricane Queen’s pocket. Those caravans
must deal with numerous other threats and dangers as
they cross Garund, and who knows what ambush the
Hurricane Queen has in store for them?
A New Source
Although her recent activities have kept cannons from
becoming a major weapon for her enemies, Captain Tessa
Fairwind was not able to obtain as many heavy guns for
her vessels as she desired. The limited supply and long
travel times from Alkenstar meant her fleet wouldn’t have
the firepower to stand against a combined assault from
two or more of her enemies for at least several years.
To remedy this situation, Captain Fairwind has turned
to a secret ally, a crafty goblin pirate named Volmurk (CN
male goblin inventor). Volmurk was gravely wounded in
a battle with the Chelaxian navy a decade before, losing
an arm and both legs to a broadside from a Chelaxian
man-of-war. Unable to continue life as a pirate, Volmurk
returned to his roots as a tinker and inventor, fashioning
a custom wheelchair to move about more freely and a
mechanical apparatus to serve in place of his lost hand.
Over time, Volmurk used the riches from his pirating life
to build a workshop in the pirate port of Quent, making
prosthetic limbs, mechanical devices, and the occasional
steam-powered mechanism for his customers. As his
reputation grew, Volmurk’s unconventional approach to
engineering led him to experiment with larger and more
dangerous devices. His attempt to create a steam-powered
flying machine led to an explosion that destroyed several
warehouses along Quent’s dockside and brought him to
Captains Fairwind’s attention once again.
Together, starting in 4720 AR, Volmurk and
Captain Fairwind hatched a daring plan: they would
reverse engineer black powder weapons from Alkenstar
and manufacture their own versions to equip the pirate
fleet. Tessa helped Volmurk arrange an “accident” that
destroyed his old workshop and supposedly killed him
and his best workers. With her support, Volmurk set up
a new workshop near the caldera of an active volcano
at the heart of Motaku Isle and set about trying to
recreate the Alkenstar cannons. After almost a year of
experimentation, Volmurk, concealing his identity behind
the anonymous moniker of “Chief Inventor,” discovered
a forging method that allows cannon barrels to withstand
the intense pressure of the powder explosion without
the fracturing that had made earlier cannons such a
risky proposition. The first of these “new” cannons was
test-fired at sea in mid-4721 AR; the first cannon to
survive its test-firing without dangerous misfires or burst
barrels followed two months later. Production of the
weapons began at a breakneck pace that cared little for
quality control or safety.
To handle the sale of these unreliable weapons, Captain
Fairwind set up the Motaku Isle Iron Works as a front.
The company sells common ironware and metal ship
fittings from its smithies located in Quent, but only a Free
Captain can purchase the guns and ammunition made in
the volcanic forge by the Chief Inventor and his team.
The new designs weren’t quite up to Alkenstar
standards, though, and the manufacturing process wasn’t
218
218
