This incredibly spacious bandolier can hold up to 4 one-
handed crossbows or firearms that take no more than
1 action to completely reload (typically meaning that
weapons with the capacity or repeating traits won’t fit in
the bandolier’s holsters). A gunner’s bandolier can be etched
with runes as though it were a ranged weapon. When you
invest the gunner’s bandolier, you can attune it to each of
the 4 weapons holstered in it.
Activate [one-action] envision; Effect You empower one of the attuned
weapons in the bandolier, granting it the runes etched
onto the gunner’s bandolier and removing the runes from
any previously drawn weapon. Then, you Interact to draw
the weapon.
Activate [three-actions] envision; Effect All weapons that were
attuned to the bandolier when you invested it, not
including any weapons you’re currently wielding, return
to the bandolier, and one of the returned weapons is
automatically reloaded.
IMMACULATE HOLSTERS
ITEM 3
UNCOMMON
CONJURATION
INVESTED
MAGICAL
Price 52 gp
Usage worn; Bulk L
This pristine leather belt is made of treated and polished
black leather with silver fittings; it features a pair of
matching leather holsters that can each fit a one-handed
firearm or hand crossbow.
Activate [three-actions] envision; Frequency once per day; Effect Up
to two firearms currently holstered in the immaculate
holsters are instantly cleaned and oiled, protecting them
from accidental misfires (though not misfires caused as a
result of using a feat or ability). The holstered weapons
are also reloaded with non-magical 0-level ammunition
appropriate to a weapon of their type; if a firearm has
multiple chambers, such as a slide pistol, each empty
chamber is loaded. Immaculate holsters can’t reload the
cartridge of a repeating weapon.
LUCKY DRAW BANDOLIER
ITEM 9+
UNCOMMON
CONJURATION
INVESTED
MAGICAL
Usage worn; Bulk L
This beige bandolier has a rectangular
holster, which allows it to contain a
standard-sized Harrow deck, and red
pockets embroidered with goldwork
in a strange but appealing mixture of
Alkenstar and Varisian motifs.
Activate [one-action] Interact; Frequency once
per day; Effect You draw a card
from the bandolier and Interact
to load the card into a gun or
crossbow you’re wielding that
requires 1 action to reload. The drawn card immediately
transforms into magical ammunition with a type depending
on the drawn card’s suit, and a new copy of that card
returns to the deck, ready to be drawn again.
When the card transforms into ammunition, it transforms
into a firearm round or crossbow bolt appropriate for the
weapon you chose to reload, even if magical ammunition of
the drawn variety would normally be limited to ammunition
of a different type (such as a storm arrow normally only
being available in arrow form). Either draw a card from the
Harrow deck or roll 1d6 to determine the suit of the card.
The result determines the type of magical ammunition the
card becomes, as per the table below. Magical ammunition
created this way lasts 10 minutes or until you fire it,
whichever comes first.
Type lucky draw bandolier; Level 9; Price 700 gp
Type greater lucky draw bandolier; Level 12; Price 2,000 gp
You can activate a greater lucky draw bandolier once per
hour instead of being able to activate it once per day.
d6	 Ability (Suit)
Ammunition
1
Strength (Hammer)
Meteor shot (page 171)
2
Dexterity (Key)
Storm arrow
3
Constitution (Shield)
Corrosive ammunition
4
Intelligence (Book)
Explosive shot
5
Wisdom (Star)
Terrifying ammunition


(Advanced Player’s Guide 259)
6
Charisma (Crown)
Fairy bullet (page 170)
SCOPES
Scopes for firearms and crossbows
have existed, in one form or another,
for many years, though they’ve
recently become one of the most sought-
after luxury items for gun enthusiasts in
Alkenstar and in various regions that have
gotten their hands on Alkenstar firearms
(whether through legal means or otherwise).
Leatherworkers, metalsmiths, crystal cutters,
and spellcasters specializing in the creation and
development of magical items all have a part to
play in the burgeoning industry. The finest crafters
often incorporate signature techniques or styles into the
scopes they produce, such as crystal cutters espousing
the merits of their flawless lenses and
spellcasters promoting the benefits of the
particular spells and techniques they use to increase the
amount and clarity of information conveyed by scopes
they enchant.
DARKVISION SCOPE
ITEM 5+
DIVINATION
MAGICAL
Usage attached to firearm or crossbow (scope); Bulk L
These scopes, popular with snipers and other sneaky
sharpshooters who ply their trade in the dead of night,
incorporate clouded crystals with magical properties
into their design. While relatively useless under normal
lighting conditions, these crystals can help bring things
into focus when used in dim light. The scope is then given
an enchantment to enhance these properties for use in
180
180
Magnifying Scope
