Introduction
Gears
Characters
Gears
Equipment
Guns
Characters
Guns
Equipment
The Rotating
Gear
Glossary
And Index
Guns &
GEARS
DISCIPLE OF THE GEAR
BACKGROUND
While many regard science and faith as incompatible, you
believe scientific advancement is your deity’s will. Perhaps
you’re a follower of Brigh, Casandalee, or some other god of
technology, or perhaps you see the furnaces and sparks of
modernity as the latest manifestation of Sarenrae’s flame or
Gozreh’s lightning—whatever the case, you’re always willing
to spread the word of your deity, and you’ve learned some
basic tinkering to show how your deity’s focus can increase
the common standard of living.
Choose two ability boosts. One must be to Intelligence or
Wisdom, and one is a free ability boost.
You’re trained in the Crafting skill and the Lore skill for
the deity you worship. You gain the Quick Repair skill feat.
DRIVER
BACKGROUND
You practically live behind the controls of a vehicle, and
can handle just about anything the road, waves, and sky
can throw at you. You likely adventure to test your skills
in unusual environments and new and interesting vehicles.
Choose two ability boosts. One must be to Strength or
Dexterity, and one is a free ability boost.
You’re trained in the Acrobatics skill and the Piloting Lore
skill. You gain the Assurance skill feat with Piloting Lore.
HOUNDED THIEF
BACKGROUND
Some time ago, you stole a unique item from a strange
individual. It might have been a piece of clockwork from
a far-off land or some other bit of strange technology. You
might still have it or you might have sold it, but either way,
you can’t shake the feeling that you’re being followed and
watched, likely by forces who want to retrieve what you
took. Luckily, a life of adventure keeps you on the move.
Choose two ability boosts. One must be to Dexterity or
Wisdom, and one is a free ability boost.
You’re trained in the Thievery skill and the Underworld
Lore skill. You gain the Pickpocket skill feat.
JUNKER
BACKGROUND
You live on the outskirts of civilization, combing through the
detritus left behind for interesting trinkets to sell or use in
your own crafting. Though you have a preferred terrain to
search, you know that the greatest treasures occur where
people make greater use of technology.
Choose two ability boosts. One must be to Strength or
Wisdom, and one is a free ability boost.
You’re trained in the Athletics skill and the Lore skill of the
terrain in which you scavenge. You gain the Hefty Hauler skill feat.
MECHANIC
BACKGROUND
The intricate inner workings of machines are no stranger
to you. Whether they are mundane devices or complex
clockworks, you know what makes them tick and how to
maintain them. An adventuring group might keep you around
to repair their equipment, or you might travel around to offer
your rare services to those in need—for a price, of course!
Choose two ability boosts. One must be to Strength or
Intelligence, and one is a free ability boost.
You’re trained in the Crafting skill and the Engineering
Lore skill. You gain the Quick Repair skill feat.
MEDICINAL CLOCKSMITH
BACKGROUND
While others might have looked to clockwork as a
mechanical innovation, you see the potential in the
technology to improve the health of patients. You might
be an experienced field medic who reached for a scrapped
construct to help a wounded soldier, or a vanguard surgeon
who’s found replacing organs with clockwork more
effective than repairing them. Perhaps you’ve also worked
to “optimize” organic bodies with fine machinery, with or
without the permission of your patients.
 Choose two ability boosts. One must be to Intelligence or
Wisdom, and one is a free ability boost.
You’re trained in the Medicine skill and the Engineering
Lore skill. You gain the Risky Surgery skill feat.
PRINTER
BACKGROUND
Keeping your finger on the pulse of the city, you write a small
news broadsheet to sell on street corners. You rent the use of
a printing press to achieve this goal, so you’re familiar with
such machines. However, people and their stories are your
main focus, and you adventure to chase the latest scoop.
Choose two ability boosts. One must be to Intelligence or
Charisma, and one is a free ability boost.
You’re trained in the Society skill and the Scribing Lore
skill. You gain the Multilingual skill feat.
SABOTEUR
BACKGROUND
Whether you do it for personal enjoyment or at the behest
of a mercenary company or military organization, you have a
knack for destroying things. You have a sense for an object or
structure’s weak spots and know where to deliver a hammer
strike or alchemical bomb. You adventure to hone your skills
or complete a particular mission.
Choose two ability boosts. One must be to Strength or
Dexterity, and one is a free ability boost.
You’re trained in the Thievery skill and the Engineering
Lore skill. You gain the Concealing Legerdemain (Advanced
Player’s Guide 204) skill feat.
TOYMAKER
BACKGROUND
You delight in making little trinkets for children of all ages,
and seeing their faces light up thanks to one of your creations
brings joy to your heart. Perhaps you sell your wares from
a particular shop or from the back of a wagon as you travel
from town to town.
Choose two ability boosts. One must be to Intelligence or
Charisma, and one is a free ability boost.
You’re trained in the Crafting skill and the Mercantile
Lore skill. You gain the Specialty Crafting skill feat, choosing
artistry, blacksmithing, glassmaking, leatherworking, tailoring,
or woodworking as your specialty.
45
45
