Introduction
Gears
Characters
Gears
Equipment
Guns
Characters
Guns
Equipment
The Rotating
Gear
Glossary
And Index
Guns &
GEARS
a non-human quarry might be, the Sniper has never been
wrong. How she pierces her targets’ deceptions, and why
she refuses to kill humans, is unknown.
THE GALVANIC HEARTS OF THE DEAD
Galvaspheres are complex, knotlike configurations
of various metals enclosed in a pierced sphere of iron
or steel coated in zinc. The devices are embedded in a
fleshy body, where blood or other fluids can penetrate
the sphere to cause a surge of “animal electricity” when
touching the metals. The exact arrangement of the knots,
and the combinations of metals that work to produce
the effect, are among the most closely guarded secrets of
Stasian-derived technology.
While the methods of galvaspheres’ creation are
secret, their effect is very much not: galvaspheres
animate corpses via electrical pulses, in a
fashion similar to that of zombies or flesh
golems but distinctly its own. The duration of
the effect depends on the size of the corpse,
the condition of its bodily humors, and the
quality of the galvasphere, but in general a
corpse can remain animate for a matter
of minutes to days. Such creatures
move in jerky, clumsy fashion, their
irregularity obvious in their vacant
eyes and slack jaws—though there are
rumors of more refined spheres that can
eliminate these obvious tells, allowing
bodies to move around undetected.
Likewise, rumors persist of enhanced and
perhaps magically augmented galvaspheres
that can revive the corpse’s mental faculties
in addition to simply moving its body, but
reputable witnesses have yet to confirm,
and the church of Pharasma has declared
these hypothetical augmented versions
to be anathema if they exist.
The
original
intention
for
galvaspheres was to assist medical
researchers in understanding the body.
Some believed that they might have
applications in battlefield medicine,
where they might keep a gravely
injured
soldier’s
heart
beating
long enough for a healer to arrive.
Inventors soon discovered that
galvaspheres’
powerful
electrical
currents overwhelmed and stopped
the hearts of the living, limiting the
devices to the dead. In Ustalav, this
morbid discovery did nothing to
slow researchers’ interest—to the
contrary, it opened up new avenues
of
possibility.
When
inventors
realized that galvaheart zombies,
unlike true zombies, were immune to many of the
magical means of control and deterrence that relied
on necromantic manipulation, the tactical potential
seemed enormous.
Though they remain largely unknown in most
of Ustalav, galvaheart zombies have been decoys,
infiltrators, and saboteurs around the Gravelands.
Because a galvaheart zombie’s blood is alchemically
warmed, and its heart physically beats due to the electrical
currents pulsing through its body, these creatures are
augmented with illusion magic, laced with colloidal
silver, and set as bait for vampires who would grow
weak from feeding on their poisoned veins. Not only
would feeding upon such altered blood fail to provide
sustenance to a vampire, it usually deals damage to
the vampire equal to the amount of damage the
vampire would have normally healed by Drinking
Blood, and causes the vampire to become drained
2. Other galvaheart zombies carry scrying devices
past enemy lines or slip through undead-oriented
defenses that no living person could survive.
Still others, it is sometimes whispered, have
been used to commit atrocities against
civilians when Ustalav’s rulers believed
it useful to inflame the citizenry against
“undead attacks.”
THE REAPER AND THE CURSE
Long before Stasian technology came
to Ustalav, alchemists knew that certain
metals, when immersed in acid, spewed
boiling gas. It was also widely noted that this
gas was highly flammable and lighter than
air, such that it could lift pigs’ bladders and
other lightweight materials if captured.
However, it was not until Stasian coils
and their innovations in metallurgy and
insulation arrived that the next step was
realized: airships built around hollow metal
skeletons and filled with metal-acid gas.
As of yet, only a spare few inventors and
vehicle mechanics have gotten close to the
creation of such magical and technological
marvels, but many more are closing in,
only a few years away from the creation
of their own airships. For now, however,
only two such ships ply the skies over
Ustalav: the Twelve-Armed Reaper and the
Stormcrow’s Curse.
The Twelve-Armed Reaper is a grim ship.
The skin stretched over its framework is a semi-
living thing grafted together from the hides of
a hundred victims, and a dozen dismembered
arms row the massive oars that propel
it through the sky, offering the tireless
strength of zombies without the weight
227
227
