as groups of warriors, who remain as a team and dwell together in hideouts or
travel together as wanderers. These groups are few and far between, however,
and automaton settlements are even rarer. The only pockets of automatons
that begin to resemble settlements typically hide among the ruins of Jistka.
These groups can hold dozens of automatons, but any attempts to contact or
visit them tend to be fruitless. Such gatherings are especially secretive, and the
resident automatons will protect their homes at any cost.
Automatons are far more likely to encounter other ancestries. Depending
on the automaton’s personality, this encounter could go a number of ways,
ranging from extreme secrecy to open visitation. An automaton’s unique
appearance makes them stand out regardless of where they’re found, but
most others look upon them with awe or curiosity rather than fear. Magical
constructs aren’t an alien concept across Golarion, but many of them are
mindless. After making it past the initial shock of a thinking construct,
it’s often not difficult for most grasp how to engage with an automaton.
However, automatons are more likely to find the semblance of an everyday
life in large cities like Absalom, Azir, or Quantium. Regardless of where they
go, an automaton must remain on the lookout for those who would attempt
to take their body for study or to access their core.
ALIGNMENT AND RELIGION
The people of the Jistka Imperium saw the aeons of Axis as ideal beings whose
behavior was worthy of emulation, so many Jistkans were lawful neutral.
Since many automatons contain Jistkan souls, most automatons are lawful
neutral, or at least lawful in some capacity. Over the centuries, however, a
fair number of automatons have drifted toward neutral alignments as their
outlooks change without a primary society or set of ideals upon which to
cling. Automatons tend to worship gods of technology or magic like Brigh
and Nethys, or various monitor demigods. Worship of Irori and Pharasma
are somewhat common among automatons as well. Pharasmin automatons
likely learn how to release their souls from their cores, and often choose to do
so. Though they are ancient beings from long before the time of Casandalee,
a small number of automatons have recognized the new artificial goddess as
a kindred spirit.
NAMES
An automaton typically keeps the name they had before their transformation
into a construct, if they can remember it. Even when other memories fade,
memory of their name often remains. As such, many automatons have
names with Jistkan origins. Second most common are automatons who had
to give themselves a new name, as they lost their memories of the old one
at some point. Those automatons that particularly believed in the cause of
the Artificer Conclave might instead take the name of one of the conclave’s
members in honor of the cause that they gave their body to support. Some
automatons prefer to change their names over their lifetimes, either selecting
a new name from a culture they encountered or adding a title to represent
a significant moment in their lives. In some cases an automaton will use a
particularly cherished title in place of any other name.
Sample Names
Alnhaman, Busmin, The Doleful, Enoh, Himar, Kantral, The Kindred,
Numinar, Scholar, Tehkis, Wayfarer, Yulmian
Automaton Heritages
Every automaton has a unique body based on the original roles intended to aid
the people of Jistka. Choose one of the following automaton heritages at 1st level.
CONSTRUCTED BODY
Your physiological needs are
different than those of living
creatures. You don’t need to eat
or drink. You don’t need to sleep,
but you still need a daily period of
rest. During this period of rest, you
must enter a recuperating standby
state for 2 hours, which is similar
to sleeping except you are aware of
your surroundings and don’t take
penalties for being unconscious.
Much like with sleeping, if you go too
long without entering your standby
state, you become fatigued and can’t
recover until you enter standby for
2 hours.
LOW-LIGHT VISION
You can see in dim light as though it
were bright light, so you ignore the
concealed condition due to dim light.
38
38
