Introduction
Gears
Characters
Gears
Equipment
Guns
Characters
Guns
Equipment
The Rotating
Gear
Glossary
And Index
Guns &
GEARS
can draw a loaded firearm or crossbow with one of the actions
and immediately shoot it with the other.
INSTANT RETURN [reaction]
FEAT 16
GUNSLINGER
Trigger An enemy misses you with a ranged attack using a
type of ammunition appropriate to your weapon (a bullet if
you’re wielding a firearm).
Requirements You’re wielding an unloaded firearm or
crossbow.
With a single fluid gesture, you catch a projectile out of the
air, load it in your weapon, and shoot it back at the attacker.
Interact to load the projectile into your weapon, then make
a Strike with the required weapon against the triggering
opponent. Since you’re using the foe’s ammunition, this Strike
applies any special effects that ammunition would have (for
instance, if it was explosive ammunition, it would explode in a
burst of fire if your Strike hits).
RICOCHET MASTER
FEAT 16
GUNSLINGER
Prerequisites Ricochet Shot
You have an eye for angles and can find shots that others
believe are impossible. When using Ricochet Shot, you can
bounce your bullet off up to two solid surfaces within your
weapon’s first range increment instead of just one.
In addition, a creature is flat-footed the first time you attack
it with a Ricochet Shot during an encounter.
18TH LEVEL
FINAL SHOT [three-actions]
FEAT 18
GUNSLINGER
Requirements You’re wielding an unloaded firearm.
You jam a triple charge of black powder into your weapon to
unleash a devastating but risky and inaccurate attack. Interact
to reload, expending three doses of black powder in addition
to your normal black powder or ammunition, then Strike with
your firearm against a creature within the weapon’s first
range increment. If you roll a success, the attack is instead a
critical success, but if you roll a failure, the weapon misfires.
Regardless of your roll, after the attack you’re flat-footed until
the start of your next turn and stunned 1.
PIERCING CRITICAL
FEAT 18
GUNSLINGER
Your attacks with your preferred weapons deal especially
devastating wounds. When you Strike with a firearm or
crossbow for which you have legendary proficiency, you
critically succeed if you roll a 19 on the die, as long as that
result is a success.
UNERRING SHOT
FEAT 18
GUNSLINGER
Your senses are finely tuned to the slightest variations in
the air, so much that you can place your shot exactly where
you intend to aim it from any range possible with your
weapon. When attacking with a ranged weapon in which
you have master or greater proficiency, ignore the penalty
from its range increment. (The weapon’s maximum range is
unchanged.) In addition, if your target has cover against your
attack with such a weapon, it doesn’t gain the bonus to AC
if it has lesser cover, gets only the bonus of lesser cover if
it has standard cover, or gains only the bonus of standard
cover if it has greater cover.
REACH FOR THE STARS
FEAT 18
GUNSLINGER
Prerequisites Black Powder Boost
The sky’s the limit, as long as you’ve got enough black powder.
When you use Black Powder Boost, you can expend additional
black powder or ammunition to boost yourself farther. For
each dose of black powder or piece of firearm ammunition you
spend in addition to your shot, you add another 10 feet to the
height or distance of your Leap, to a maximum of 5 boosts (a
+50-foot status bonus). You must be wearing a dose of black
powder or piece of ammunition, or have it in hand, to detonate
it for a boost.
You can choose at which points in your Leap you detonate
each boost, allowing you to change direction each time. You
must then move in a straight line until you boost again or end
your Leap.
20TH LEVEL
PERFECT READINESS
FEAT 20
GUNSLINGER
You prepare to fire with an instinctive speed and muscle
memory that go beyond your conscious thoughts. You’re
permanently quickened. You can use your extra action only to
Step or Interact to reload.
RICOCHET LEGEND
FEAT 20
GUNSLINGER
Prerequisites Ricochet Master
The more obstacles between you and your target, the deadlier
your shots become, as you ricochet off multiple surfaces to hit
them. When using Ricochet Shot, your shot can bounce off of
any surface within your weapon’s first three range increments
and the target can’t benefit from cover unless they have total
cover on all sides.
In addition, a creature must attempt a Will save against
your class DC the first time in an encounter you attack it
with a Ricochet Shot. If it fails, it’s stunned 2 and is unable to
determine where your shot originated.
SLINGER’S REFLEXES
FEAT 20
GUNSLINGER
Your ability to react to unexpected circumstances is
preternaturally sharp. At the start of each enemy’s turn, you
gain an additional reaction you can use on only that turn to
use a gunslinger reaction.
119
119
