indicates the weapon category for the siege weapon. The
crew leader rolls an attack roll against the target. Any
bonuses or penalties the crew leader is taking apply to the
attack roll. See the sidebar above for more on how attack
abilities work with portable siege weapons.
BULK
A portable siege weapon has a Bulk entry. This is
primarily used when someone is carrying the portable
siege weapon around. When it’s being used by a crew,
this Bulk is distributed among them as they see fit, and
it’s usually not worth tracking the Bulk unless they’re
already heavily loaded. If characters try to have more
than one of them carry the portable siege weapon when
it’s not being used (dragging it around a dungeon, for
example), this is cumbersome, and they’re encumbered
due to the challenge of constantly coordinating their
movement.
Siege Weapon Statistics
A siege weapon uses the following stat block format.
An individual siege weapon might omit some of these
sections, especially a portable siege weapon.
SIEGE WEAPON NAME
ITEM [LEVEL]
RARITY
SIZE
MOUNTED OR PORTABLE
OTHER TRAITS
Price This entry lists the siege weapon’s Price; Ammunition
If the siege weapon requires special ammunition, the
ammunition’s name appears here, along with the Price and
Bulk of each piece.
Usage This entry shows whether the siege weapon is mounted
or held. The number of hands required for a held siege
weapon reflects how many the entire crew needs to use to
operate the weapon; Bulk A portable siege weapon has Bulk;
Space A mounted siege weapon has this entry to indicate
its dimensions, not including any creatures crewing it.
Crew The number of creatures needed to operate the siege
weapon is listed here. If additional creatures can assist,
there’s a second number to indicate the maximum number
that’s practical. For instance, “4 to 8” indicates the weapon
can’t be operated by fewer than four creatures, and that no
more than eight creatures total can crew the weapon at a
time; Proficiency This entry shows the proficiency required
to use your class DC when Launching a mounted weapon
(see the Launch action) or the proficiency used for your
attack roll with a portable siege weapon.
AC The siege weapon’s AC. This section appears only if the siege
weapon can normally be attacked and is more typical of
mounted siege weapons; Saving Throws The siege weapon’s
saves, which typically include only Fortitude and Reflex.
Hardness The siege weapon’s hardness; HP The siege weapon’s
Hit Points, with its Broken Threshold in parentheses;
Immunities The siege weapon’s immunities; Weaknesses
The siege weapon’s weaknesses, if any; Resistances The
siege weapon’s resistances, if any.
Speed This is the maximum Speed you can move the mounted
siege weapon using the Move Siege Weapon activity.
The description of the siege weapon.
Aim The entry for Aim shows the distance a creature can move
the aim by taking this activity and the minimum distance
away from the siege weapon the aim can be placed.
Load This entry shows how many actions the Load activity
takes and how many times this must be done to finish
Loading the weapon.
Launch This gives the specifics of the Launch action, including
the traits, damage, size and shape of the area, and default DC.
Siege Weapons
BALLISTA
ITEM 5
UNCOMMON
LARGE
MOUNTED
Price 320 gp; Ammunition ballista bolt (5 sp, 1 Bulk)
Usage mounted; Space 10 feet long, 5 feet wide, 4 feet tall
Crew 2; Proficiency martial
AC 17; Fort +12, Ref +11
Hardness 10; HP 40 (BT 20); Immunities object immunities
Speed 20 feet (pulled or pushed)
Resembling a massive crossbow mounted on a tripod, but with
a pair of arms for torsion instead of a single prod, a ballista
flings massive bolts. Also referred to as a scorpion, this
weapon requires fewer crew members than the larger heavy
ballista and can be Aimed and Loaded much more quickly.
Aim [one-action] 35 feet, minimum distance 25 feet
Load [two-actions] (manipulate) 2 times
Launch [one-action] (attack, manipulate, range increment 120 feet)
4d12 piercing, single target, DC 19 Reflex
BATTERING RAM
ITEM 5+
UNCOMMON
LARGE
PORTABLE
Usage portable, held in 12 hands; Bulk 20
Crew 6; Proficiency martial
Simple but powerful, a battering ram is a full tree stripped of
limbs with one end clad in iron, often shaped like a ram’s head.
Large handles are affixed to the sides so it can be hefted and
carried by a crew.
SIEGE WEAPONS VS. NORMAL WEAPONS
Many of the benefits that apply to standard weapons—
daggers, bows, battleaxes, and the like—don’t work
on siege weapons. They’re simply too different in form
and function. The GM might allow using them in certain
circumstances, but this is fairly rare.
Character abilities that affect their attacks might work
with portable siege weapons. For example, a battering
ram might get the benefit of a character’s bonuses that
apply to attacks with two-handed weapons. The GM can
determine what’s reasonable and what’s not. Because
siege weapons require special actions to operate, a
character can’t use their special actions with them. Sorry,
no Attacks of Opportunity with a battering ram!
74
74
