Introduction
Gears
Characters
Gears
Equipment
Guns
Characters
Guns
Equipment
The Rotating
Gear
Glossary
And Index
Guns &
GEARS
CHAPTER MAP
The following sections appear in this chapter.
Combat Gear
Page 62
Gadgets
Page 66
Siege Weapons
Page 72
Snares and Hazards
Page 78
Stasian Technology
Page 82
Utility Gear
Page 84
Vehicles and Mobility Devices
Page 90
inspire a technological renaissance in the highest halls of
Ustalavic academia. While Stasian technology is the newest
form of electrical technology, and the one least dependent
on magic, it’s hardly the first time in Golarion’s history that
a civilization has attempted to harness electricity. Most
notably, aeromantic infadibulum technology allowed the
sky cities of the Shory empire to soar through the sky.
However, such previous electrical technologies relied
heavily on magic as a key component, as this made the
inventions that harnessed them drastically more stable and
powerful than a purely technological solution. After all,
magic-users could create lightning bolts—what need was
there for a non-magical alternative? While it might seem
frivolous on magic-soaked Golarion, Stasian technology
exists because it originates from another world where
magic is much rarer. By utilizing less magical energy,
Stasian tech offers a viable alternative. The core Stasian
technology can be found on page 82, but other sections
of this chapter have a few pieces of Stasian technology
sprinkled in as well.
STEAM-POWERED TECHNOLOGY
Steam technology is also an extremely recent invention,
making it far less known than clockwork but still more
accessible than Stasian technology, since it doesn’t require
the use of the heavily limited Stasian coils. Many regarded
the idea to use steam for power as particularly novel simply
because the world of Golarion contained so many other
power sources that seemed more obvious or useful than the
energy generated by the transition from water to steam. Most
steam engines currently in use include a magical component
used to heat the steam; for instance, a fire elemental
generates a steady supply of heat on its own, though prior
inventors would have used that energy directly rather than
through the creation of steam. Nonetheless, several small
proof-of-concept steam engines have successfully run safely
and stably without the use of magic, through the use of
a furnace to heat the water. Purely technological steam
power will remain mostly a curiosity, though, as long as
it continues to be less effective and convenient than steam
power sourced through magical means.
Cogs in the Machine
Each section in this chapter presents a different use for
new technologies. Depending on how you want to add
technology to your character and game, you can mix and
match these sections and choose the ones right for you.
The chapter map sidebar on this page provides a quick
glimpse of the page numbers for each section.
COMBAT GEAR
Combat gear items are the practical sort you can use to
fight your enemies, making them the premiere choice for
martial characters seeking technological upgrades. There
are new weapons, weapon-like technological items, and
items that can alter the way you use weapons.
GADGETS
Gadgets are technological consumable items that do
something special once and then break down. They’re
especially important for inventors, who can take feats
allowing them to make a few free gadgets each day.
SIEGE WEAPONS
Siege weapons are large, powerful, difficult to move,
and dependent on several people to reload, aim, and fire
them. They’re particularly effective in a large-scale battle
or war, leveraging rank-and-file infantry for powerful
attacks by the skilled leaders of siege crews.
SNARES AND HAZARDS
Snares and hazards are perfect for rangers, trapsmiths
(page 54), and other characters who like to control the
battlefield ahead of time. When you mix the devious
minds of trapmakers with the possibilities presented by
technology, the possibilities remain especially deadly.
STASIAN TECHNOLOGY
Stasian technology includes some of the fundamental
technological items that use Stasian coils. You can learn
even more about Stasian technology and how Ustalav has
been using it on page 82.
UTILITY GEAR
Utility gear describes items that are useful in society, though
they may or may not be useful to a typical adventurer. For
instance, the recent invention of the printing press might
one day revolutionize the way society presents written
texts, but on a typical adventuring day, few heroes have
particular use for one. On the other hand, a clockwork
disguise or diving suit could be just what an adventurer
needs to get themselves out of (or into) a sticky situation.
VEHICLES AND MOBILITY DEVICES
Vehicles and mobility devices allow you to travel in style,
using new inventions based on the latest technologies that
can propel your adventure. If you’d like more mobility for
any reason, you can’t go wrong here. You can find even
more mobility items starting on page 66 of Pathfinder Lost
Omens Grand Bazaar, and the original rules for vehicles
are on page 174 of the Gamemastery Guide.
6161
