Introduction
Gears
Characters
Gears
Equipment
Guns
Characters
Guns
Equipment
The Rotating
Gear
Glossary
And Index
Guns &
GEARS
CHAIN SHOT
A special type of ammunition for siege weapons,
chain shot is built to demolish masts, sails, and airship
gasbags. Each chain shot costs 2 gp. It resembles a
cannonball in shape and can be loaded only into a siege
weapon that hurls stones or similar ammunition. When
launched, the ball divides into its two halves, connected
by a sturdy chain.
When a siege weapon launches chain shot, it targets
one object instead of using its normal targets or area.
The target takes no damage, but on a failed Reflex save,
the object’s mast, sail, or gasbag becomes broken. The
pilot can attempt a piloting check in place of this Reflex
save. A broken mast, sail, or gasbag prevents a wind-
propelled vessel from moving, except by other means of
propulsion if available. For instance, a galley could still be
rowed if it had enough rowers. An airship with a broken
gasbag instead begins to slowly descend as it leaks gas,
automatically descending 20 feet at the start of each of
the pilot’s turns.
Named for Ancil Alkenstar, this bronze cannon is one of the
largest pieces of mobile artillery ever deployed, though its
immense weight limits just how mobile it actually is. The
barrel of an Alkenstar cannon is nearly 3 feet in diameter,
making it impractical to manufacture and handle cannonballs
of sufficient size. Instead, Alkenstar cannons spray buckshot
in a similar way to blunderbusses, firing large barrels that
break apart mid-flight and release a rain of scattershot over a
massive area. The slow movement and short range make this
siege weapon fit fewer situations than most, but when used
effectively, such as to stop a charge of Mana Waste mutants
against the walls of Alkenstar, the results are devastating.
Aim [three-actions] 50 feet, minimum distance 50 feet
Load [three-actions] (manipulate) 3 times, requires a successful DC 20
Athletics check
Launch [two-actions] (manipulate, range increment 50 feet) 10d12
bludgeoning, 50-foot burst, DC 33 Reflex
Black Powder Siege
Towers
Black powder siege towers use the same rules as other
siege towers. You can find more information on them,
and on vehicles with “pushed” propulsion, in the Siege
Towers section on page 76.
BATTERY TOWER
VEHICLE 16
RARE
GARGANTUAN
Price 30,000 gp
Space 50 feet long, 50 feet wide, 90 feet high
Crew 1 pilot, 150 turners, 2,200 pushers; Passengers 204
Piloting Check Diplomacy (DC 37), Intimidation (DC 37), or
Warfare Lore (DC 35)
AC 34; Fort +28
Hardness 25; HP 150 (BT 75); Immunities object immunities
Speed 10 feet (pushed, turned)
Collision 8d10 (DC 32)
Sluggish This vehicle must move twice its length for each
90-degree turn it makes.
Tiered A battery tower has five levels. The crew operate at
the bottom tier, turning a giant capstan, and up to four
passengers can fit on that floor, enough for a full crew for a
bombard. The remaining levels carry 50 passengers each.
The tiers are specifically meant to be protective, and give
those within the battery tower greater cover (or standard
cover if the battery tower is broken). A massive ladder
runs diagonally through the center of the battery tower,
from the front of the top tier to the rear of the bottom tier.
The ladder is wide enough for two crew or passengers to
climb simultaneously.
Weaponry A battery tower is usually loaded with black
powder siege weapons for heavy assaults, with bombards
on the bottom two floors and cannons on the other floors.
Their Price is included in that of the battery tower. When
building a battery tower, you can choose to replace any
of these with other siege weapons of a lower Price. If you
want a more expensive siege weapon, you must Craft it
separately. Passengers of the battery tower can crew
these siege weapons.
Naval Siege Tools
Black powder has begun to revolutionize naval combat,
and the following siege tool, and the special chain shot
ammunition listed above, assist combat by sea, allowing
an attacking ship to disable enemy vessels and make
amphibious landings safely.
SAMBUCA
Using this device requires a complicated setup but
allows troops to siege a location on land from the sea.
SAMBUCA
ITEM 3
RARE
Price 120 gp
A sambuca is a long, covered troop bridge designed to help
troops move from sea to land. Preparing it for use requires
lashing together two galleys (Gamemastery Guide 178) or
other ships of similar size. The sambuca is then mounted
across the ships on one end with its length suspended
upward, and attached to pulleys fastened to the tops of the
ships’ masts. Once the ships are moved into position, the
sambuca can be lowered to rest on a battlement or other
surface, allowing troops to rush from the ships onto their
intended destination.
The sambuca has AC 17, Fort +11, Ref +5, Hardness 8, HP
32 (BT 16), and object immunities. It’s covered on all sides to
protect those who cross, granting them greater cover. The
end of the sambuca can be lowered by teams operating the
pulleys in concert. This requires three crew members on each
ship, and they can lower the far end of the sambuca by 15
feet each round they work.
177
177
