Introduction
Gears
Characters
Gears
Equipment
Guns
Characters
Guns
Equipment
The Rotating
Gear
Glossary
And Index
Guns &
GEARS
Open Game License Version 1.0a
The following text is the property of Wizards of the Coast, Inc. and is Copy­
right 2000 Wizards of the Coast, Inc. (“Wizards”). All Rights Reserved.
1. Definitions: (a) “Contributors” means the copyright and/or trademark owners
who have contributed Open Game Content; (b) “Derivative Material” means copy­
righted material including derivative works and translations (including into other
computer languages), potation, modification, correction, addition, extension, up­
grade, improvement, compilation, abridgment or other form in which an existing
work may be recast, transformed or adapted; (c) “Distribute” means to reproduce,
license, rent, lease, sell, broadcast, publicly display, transmit or otherwise distrib­
ute; (d) “Open Game Content” means the game mechanic and includes the methods,
procedures, processes and routines to the extent such content does not embody
the Product Identity and is an enhancement over the prior art and any additional
content clearly identified as Open Game Content by the Contributor, and means
any work covered by this License, including translations and derivative works un­
der copyright law, but specifically excludes Product Identity. (e) “Product Identity”
means product and product line names, logos and identifying marks including trade
dress; artifacts, creatures, characters, stories, storylines, plots, thematic elements,
dialogue, incidents, language, artwork, symbols, designs, depictions, likenesses,
formats, poses, concepts, themes and graphic, photographic and other visual or
audio representations; names and descriptions of characters, spells, enchantments,
personalities, teams, personas, likenesses and special abilities; places, locations, en­
vironments, creatures, equipment, magical or supernatural abilities or effects, logos,
symbols, or graphic designs; and any other trademark or registered trademark clear­
ly identified as Product identity by the owner of the Product Identity, and which spe­
cifically excludes the Open Game Content; (f) “Trademark” means the logos, names,
mark, sign, motto, designs that are used by a Contributor to identify itself or its
products or the associated products contributed to the Open Game License by the
Contributor (g) “Use”, “Used” or “Using” means to use, Distribute, copy, edit, format,
modify, translate and otherwise create Derivative Material of Open Game Content.
(h) “You” or “Your” means the licensee in terms of this agreement.
2. The License: This License applies to any Open Game Content that contains
a notice indicating that the Open Game Content may only be Used under and in
terms of this License. You must affix such a notice to any Open Game Content
that you Use. No terms may be added to or subtracted from this License except
as described by the License itself. No other terms or conditions may be applied
to any Open Game Content distributed using this License.
3. Offer and Acceptance: By Using the Open Game Content You indicate Your
acceptance of the terms of this License.
4. Grant and Consideration: In consideration for agreeing to use this License,
the Contributors grant You a perpetual, worldwide, royalty-free, non-exclusive
license with the exact terms of this License to Use, the Open Game Content.
5. Representation of Authority to Contribute: If You are contributing original
material as Open Game Content, You represent that Your Contributions are Your
original creation and/or You have sufficient rights to grant the rights conveyed
by this License.
6. Notice of License Copyright: You must update the COPYRIGHT NOTICE por­
tion of this License to include the exact text of the COPYRIGHT NOTICE of any
Open Game Content You are copying, modifying or distributing, and You must
add the title, the copyright date, and the copyright holder’s name to the COPY­
RIGHT NOTICE of any original Open Game Content you distribute.
7. Use of Product Identity: You agree not to Use any Product Identity, includ­
ing as an indication as to compatibility, except as expressly licensed in another,
independent Agreement with the owner of each element of that Product Identi­
ty. You agree not to indicate compatibility or co-adaptability with any Trademark
or Registered Trademark in conjunction with a work containing Open Game
Content except as expressly licensed in another, independent Agreement with
the owner of such Trademark or Registered Trademark. The use of any Product
Identity in Open Game Content does not constitute a challenge to the ownership
of that Product Identity. The owner of any Product Identity used in Open Game
Content shall retain all rights, title and interest in and to that Product Identity.
8. Identification: If you distribute Open Game Content You must clearly indicate
which portions of the work that you are distributing are Open Game Content.
9. Updating the License: Wizards or its designated Agents may publish updat­
ed versions of this License. You may use any authorized version of this License
to copy, modify and distribute any Open Game Content originally distributed
under any version of this License.
10. Copy of this License: You MUST include a copy of this License with every
copy of the Open Game Content You distribute.
11. Use of Contributor Credits: You may not market or advertise the Open
Game Content using the name of any Contributor unless You have written per­
mission from the Contributor to do so.
12. Inability to Comply: If it is impossible for You to comply with any of the
terms of this License with respect to some or all of the Open Game Content due
to statute, judicial order, or governmental regulation then You may not Use any
Open Game Material so affected.
13. Termination: This License will terminate automatically if You fail to comply
with all terms herein and fail to cure such breach within 30 days of becoming
aware of the breach. All sublicenses shall survive the termination of this License.
14. Reformation: If any provision of this License is held to be unenforceable, such
provision shall be reformed only to the extent necessary to make it enforceable.
15. COPYRIGHT NOTICE
Open Game License v 1.0a © 2000, Wizards of the Coast, Inc.
System Reference Document © 2000, Wizards of the Coast, Inc.; Authors:
Jonathan Tweet, Monte Cook, and Skip Williams, based on material by E. Gary
Gygax and Dave Arneson.
Pathfinder Core Rulebook (Second Edition) © 2019, Paizo Inc.; Authors: Logan
Bonner, Jason Bulmahn, Stephen Radney-MacFarland, and Mark Seifter.
Pathfinder Guns & Gears © 2021, Paizo Inc.; Authors: Logan Bonner, Jessica
Catalan, John Compton, Andrew D. Geels, Steven Hammond, Sen H.H.S., Brent
Holtsberry, Jason Keeley, Dustin Knight, Luis Loza, Ron Lundeen, Chris Mastey,
Liane Merciel, Jacob W. Michaels, Dave Nelson, Samantha Phelan, Mikhail
Rekun, Stephen Radney-MacFarland, Sydney Meeker, Kendra Leigh Speedling,
Michael Sayre., Mark Seifter, Andrew Stoeckle, Calliope Lee Taylor, Andrew
White, and Scott D. Young.
PAIZO INC.
Creative Director • James Jacobs
Director of Game Design • Jason Bulmahn
Director of Visual Design • Sarah E. Robinson
Director of Game Development • Adam Daigle
Organized Play Managing Developer • Linda Zayas-Palmer
Developers • Eleanor Ferron, Jason Keeley, Luis Loza, Ron Lundeen,
Patrick Renie, and Jason Tondro
Starfinder Lead Designer • Joe Pasini
Starfinder Senior Developer • John Compton
Pathfinder Society Developer • Thurston Hillman
Starfinder Society Developer • Jenny Jarzabski
Organized Play Developer • Mike Kimmel
Design Manager • Mark Seifter
Pathfinder Lead Designer • Logan Bonner
Designers • James Case and Michael Sayre
Managing Editor • Leo Glass
Senior Editors • Avi Kool and Lu Pellazar
Editors • Addley C. Fannin, Patrick Hurley, Ianara Natividad, and
K. Tessa Newton
Managing Art Director • Sonja Morris
Art Directors • Kent Hamilton, Kyle Hunter, and Adam Vick
Senior Graphic Designer • Emily Crowell
Graphic Designer • Tony Barnett
Director of Brand Strategy • Mark Moreland
Paizo CEO • Lisa Stevens
President • Jeffrey Alvarez
Chief Creative Officer • Erik Mona
Chief Financial Officer • David Reuland
Chief Technical Officer • Vic Wertz
Director of Project Management • Glenn Elliott
Project Coordinator • Lee Rucker
Director of Sales • Pierce Watters
Sales Manager • Cosmo Eisele
Vice President of Marketing & Licensing • Jim Butler
Director of Licensing • John Feil
Marketing Coordinator • Leah Beckleman
Marketing and Media Manager • Aaron Shanks
Organized Play Manager • Tonya Woldridge
Organized Play Associate • Alex Speidel
Accountant • William Jorenby
Accounting & AP Specialist • Eric Powell
Finance Operations Specialist • B. Scott Keim
Director of Technology • Rei Ko
Front End Engineering Lead • Andrew White
Senior Software Developer • Gary Teter
Software Architect • Brian Bauman
Software Developer • Robert Brandenburg
Software Test Engineers • Erik Keith and Levi Steadman
System Administrators II • Whitney Chatterjee and Josh Thornton
Web Content Manager • Maryssa Lagervall
Webstore Coordinator • Katina Davis
Customer Service & Community Manager • Sara Marie
Customer Service Lead • Diego Valdez
Customer Service Team • Raychael Allor, Heather Fantasia, Keith Greer,
and Logan Harper
Warehouse Manager • Jeff Strand
Logistics Coordinator • Kevin Underwood
Warehouse Distribution Lead • Heather Payne
Warehouse Team • Alexander Crain, Mika Hawkins, James Mafi, and
Loren Walton
This product is compliant with the Open Game License (OGL) and is suitable for use with the
Pathfinder Roleplaying Game (Second Edition).
Product Identity: The following items are hereby identified as Product Identity, as defined in the
Open Game License version 1.0a, Section 1(e), and are not Open Game Content: All trademarks,
registered trademarks, proper nouns (characters, deities, locations, etc., as well as all adjectives,
names, titles, and descriptive terms derived from proper nouns), artworks, characters, dialogue,
locations, organizations, plots, storylines, and trade dress. (Elements that have previously been
designated as Open Game Content, or are exclusively derived from previous Open Game Content,
or that are in the public domain are not included in this declaration.)
Open Game Content: Except for material designated as Product Identity (see above), the game
mechanics of this Paizo game product are Open Game Content, as defined in the Open Game
License version 1.0a, Section 1(d). No portion of this work other than the material designated as
Open Game Content may be reproduced in any form without written permission.
Pathfinder Guns & Gears © 2021, Paizo Inc. All Rights Reserved. Paizo, the Paizo golem logo,
Pathfinder, the Pathfinder logo, Pathfinder Society, Starfinder, and the Starfinder logo are registered
trademarks of Paizo Inc.; the Pathfinder P logo, Pathfinder Accessories, Pathfinder Adventure Card
Game, Pathfinder Adventure Card Society, Pathfinder Adventure Path, Pathfinder Adventures,
Pathfinder Battles, Pathfinder Combat Pad, Pathfinder Flip-Mat, Pathfinder Flip-Tiles, Pathfinder
Legends, Pathfinder Lost Omens, Pathfinder Pawns, Pathfinder Roleplaying Game, Pathfinder
Tales, Starfinder Adventure Path, Starfinder Combat Pad, Starfinder Flip-Mat, Starfinder Flip-Tiles,
Starfinder Pawns, Starfinder Roleplaying Game, and Starfinder Society are trademarks of Paizo Inc.
Printed in China.
237
237
