the same love and affection that created it. Through decades
of effort, it gained the ability to communicate empathically,
then telepathically. Now, the weapon is capable of exerting
its influence over other inanimate objects. Despite the
weapon’s progress, years of feeling helpless have given the
animate dreamer a singular goal: to obtain and occupy a
body of its own.
An animate dreamer is cunning, intelligent, and patient. It
urges you to create a body for it and is willing to go to any
lengths to see its goals come to fruition, including coercion,
deception, and violence. An animate dreamer desires a
permanent body but isn’t picky about the body’s form or
the methods it has to use in order to gain it. Therefore, an
animate dreamer is just as happy in a living body stolen from
an innocent as it would be in an artificially constructed body,
or even an undead corpse. If you refuse to work towards
creating or obtaining a body for the animate dreamer, it will
likely use its possession ability to try and take control of you
and use your body to find a permanent replacement for itself.
Activate [two-actions] command; Requirements The animate dreamer
has a stored spell. It can see a creature it hit and damaged
within the last minute, and that creature’s within 120 feet
of animate dreamer; Effect The animate dreamer casts its
stored spell at a target that meets the requirements. This
empties the spell from the weapon and allows a spell to be
cast into it again. The animate dreamer has a spell attack
roll of +25 and a spell DC of 33 with the stored spell.
Activate [three-actions] command; Effect The animate dreamer
focuses on a single unattended inanimate object in an area
it can see and exerts its will over the object, temporarily
levitating it around. The animate dreamer casts mage
hand as a 5th-level occult spell.
Activate [three-actions] command; Frequency once per day; Effect The
animate dreamer attempts to achieve its goal of occupying
a body of its own and casts possession as a 7th-level spell
with a spell DC of 33. The weapon still functions as a +2
greater striking spell-storing scattergun while this effect
is active but loses all other special abilities until the spell
expires and the animate dreamer’s intellect returns to it.
BOASTFUL HUNTER
ITEM 3
RARE
LN
EVOCATION
INTELLIGENT
PRIMAL
Usage Held in 1 or 2 hands; Bulk 1
Perception +11; precise vision 30 feet, imprecise hearing
30 feet
Communication speech (Common)
Skills Nature +9, Performance +10, Survival +11
Int +0, Wis +2, Cha +3
Will +11
Possessing a boisterous, proud demeanor, this +1 jezail is
an aspiring big game hunter, always quick to share a tale
of its bold adventures and predatory conquests—although
the veracity of such tales is often questionable. A boastful
hunter enjoys tracking and hunting animals of all kinds but
takes particular pleasure in taking down large, dangerous,
or rare animals. Against an animal, the boastful hunter deals
1d6 additional damage. On a critical hit against an animal,
the boastful hunter also deals 1d6 persistent bleed damage.
A boastful hunter urges you to face off against tougher and
tougher creatures—a challenge the ambitious rifle may not be
adequate to deal with. If the boastful hunter goes one week
without participating in a hunt against an animal of at least
your level, it becomes bored. A bored boastful hunter complains
incessantly and imposes a –1 item penalty to attack rolls against
non-animal targets. A bored boastful hunter can be appeased by
using it in combat against an animal of at least your level.
Unable to accept its own weaknesses, a boastful hunter
blames any failed hunts on you, and considers remarks about
its strength or quality a terrible insult. An insulted boastful
hunter badmouths you to sentient creatures you interact
with, imposing a –1 item penalty to Deception, Diplomacy,
and Intimidation skill checks, and all attacks with it incur
a misfire chance until the weapon is appeased. An insulted
boastful hunter can be appeased by complimenting it and
succeeding at a Diplomacy check against its Will DC two
days in a row. You can only attempt a Diplomacy check to
appease the boastful hunter once each day.
DUCHY DEFENDER
ITEM 13
RARE
LG
CONJURATION
INTELLIGENT
OCCULT
Usage held in 2 hands; Bulk 1
Perception +26; precise vision 60 feet, imprecise hearing
30 feet
Communication speech (Common, Dwarven, Kelish, Osiriani)
Skills Diplomacy +23, Intimidation +23, Alkenstar Lore +25,
Firearm Lore +25, Society +21
Int +2, Wis +5, Cha +4
Will +26
INTEGRATED FIREARMS
In addition to the many rare and unique weapons
presented here, there exists a special type of rare firearm
known as an integrated firearm that anyone who knows
the proper techniques can craft. An integrated firearm
replaces a creature’s forelimb, usually in place of a
prosthesis or one of an automaton’s (page 36) arms. An
integrated weapon can be a one or two-handed firearm
or combination weapon, though weapons with the reach
property are typically too ungainly for this treatment
and one-handed weapons are usually preferred since
two-handed weapons still require the use of a second
arm for proper wielding. Opponents can’t disarm an
integrated firearm and they take 10 minutes to attach
or remove. Integrated firearms can be fired using the
same arm they are attached to, with careful and complex
mechanics that use the wearer’s posture or even directly
attach to the muscles or other infrastructure that used
to control the severed or detached limb. A creature with
an integrated firearm can’t use the arm replaced by the
firearm for any actions or tasks other than wielding
and firing the firearm.
162
162
