Introduction
Gears
Characters
Gears
Equipment
Guns
Characters
Guns
Equipment
The Rotating
Gear
Glossary
And Index
Guns &
GEARS
stelae, but these standing stones don’t denote actual
borders so much as areas of influence warded by ancient
magic. The people of Briarbough rallied together to repel
the invading Fire Army of Razatlan ages ago, whose
incursions torched much of the forest and created the
Firescar, a region still blighted with the invaders’ magic.
The settlements fell into fierce infighting afterward, each
claiming credit for the victory and demanding the Rowan
Rifle. This legendary star gun is
as much a badge of office as it
is a weapon, denoting dominion
over all Briarbough. The rifle is
held by powerful fey custodians
who bequeath it to a deserving
mortal for only one lifetime.
Fashioned from a tree whose roots
drank deeply from djezet (the skymetal
known as quickiron), the weapon doesn’t
discomfort the fey, unlike iron firearms.
That no claimant has yet received the Rowan
Rifle in this current age only intensifies the
clashes among those who believe they deserve it.
Many rulers throughout Briarbough have agents
desperately seeking lost star guns or other firearms,
believing that the fey will award the Rowan Rifle to
superlative gunslingers. Varkesh Wolfpaw, tyrant of
Ninebranches, amasses weapons and militarizes his
people with the aim of taking the Rowan Rifle from the
fey by force. The Firescar Bombers work to thwart his
plans, ranging from the desolate Firescar and slipping past
Varkesh’s enchanted border stelae, but these alchemists
and pyromaniacs are no heroes, either.
CROWNPEAKS
The Mildanesi Mountains comprise an enormous range
running nearly the entire length of Arcadia. The northern
mountains once inhabited by the Crowned Regents are
known today as the Crownpeaks. The few passes through
the region are high and difficult; most become impassable
with ferocious storms and deep snow during the winter.
The wealthy city of High Klesh, in the east, is the best
place to find guides through the Crownpeaks, as its
scouts know how best to negotiate with the Passkeepers,
a confederacy of roc-mounted halflings who watch over
the passes and demand tribute. Some Passkeepers prefer
long rifles to threaten travelers from a safe distance
and are willing to pay handsomely for such weaponry.
The fickle Passkeepers aren’t the only dangers in the
mountains: yeti-like creatures called antimoks, wendigos,
and stranger monsters haunt the peaks. A few smaller
settlements like Oathscrape and Picket Shelf provide
travelers with respite, but hospitality can prove hard to
come by in the mountains.
The Crownpeaks have few natural resources other
than ore, but they bear that ore in abundance. The
most extensive and advanced mining operations are in
the mountains nearest Three Craters, where the Smog
Lords mandate the backbreaking labor that pulls iron,
tin, and silver from large, lucrative mines. These peaks
harbor many smaller veins of these and other useful
metals, including skymetals from Earthfall. Thus, the
Crownpeaks continue to attract hardy individuals and
small companies with a willingness to work and a dream
of striking it rich. Such small-stakes prospectors diligently
guard their claims with picks and guns.
The abandoned monasteries once occupied by the
mysterious Crowned Regents are highly sought after, even
though these ruins tend to harbor dangerous creatures
who value a sheltered lair in the unforgiving peaks. Chief
among these monsters is Dwashtil, a wendigo of such
vast power and authority that other wendigos of
the Crownpeaks call her their master. Some of the
best-explored monasteries have extensive underground
passages, and rumors abound of connections through
these passages to other lost monasteries and deeper
areas inhabited by mysterious creatures that have
never seen daylight.
HALANA THEOCRACY
Northwest of Tazuni, the desert gives way
to rolling, fertile hills and a coastline of
rugged cliffs. Many tengu inhabit this
region, though humans still greatly
outnumber them. Although this
land seems pastoral, it’s under
the firm control of a despotic
government called the Halana
Theocracy. Headquartered in the
many-spired city of Rookery, the
church does its best to control all aspects of life within
its borders, from the timing of crops to the education of
its youth. Far from being an orderly place, however, the
dictates of the church are erratic and often contradictory,
so the nation is one of paranoia, toil, and misery. The
faith itself is no less convoluted, revering an ever-shifting
pantheon of malevolent sky gods centered on the demon
lord Pazuzu. It is heresy to utter the names of any sky
gods of the pantheon; the church claims that doing so
invites corruption and madness. Halana’s leaders, the
three Windborne Theocrats, can control the weather,
although they usually bring storms to evince their wrath
rather than good weather to benefit the populace. They
are known to be physically frail despite their divine
power, as their seals of office are made from a poisonous
skymetal called abysium, or feverstone.
The Halana Theocracy enforces its will through an
elite group of wicked soldiers known as the Mivanians.
Most Mivanians are tengu, but the force admits a fair
number of avian beastkin and tiefling humans with
birdlike features as well. All Mivanians carry beast guns
created from flying monsters, giving them unparalleled
range. For anyone outside the Mivanians, owning a
209
209
Beast Gun
