Introduction
Gears
Characters
Gears
Equipment
Guns
Characters
Guns
Equipment
The Rotating
Gear
Glossary
And Index
Guns &
GEARS
Realms of Innovation
The Rotating Gear is an expansive gazetteer following
the flow of technology across Golarion—from the ancient
automatons of the Jistka Imperium to the innovative
firearms produced on the continent of Arcadia, and
beyond. Each section touches on the history and culture
of a different part of Golarion, specifically focusing on
the context of the technologies that have arisen from or
are being actively developed in those areas. The sections
examine clockwork technology on one hand, and black
powder and firearms technology on the other.
Some of the sections describing these regions, such as
the section on Arcadia, explore new places on Golarion
in depth for the first time, while others, like the section
on Ustalav, focus on more recent developments and
technological discoveries.
The world of Golarion is a living, breathing entity,
shaped
by
adventurers,
innovators,
politicians,
smugglers, and pirates in a variety of ways. Beyond
the inventions and innovations of its
inhabitants, Golarion’s technology has
been impacted by beings from other
worlds, and travelers from Golarion
who return from distant planes
with their discoveries. This has led
to Golarion’s inhabitants making
new discoveries and advancing
technology at a pace unlike
anywhere else in the multiverse—
sometimes leaping ahead of the
progress
made
elsewhere
and
sometimes lagging behind as magic
and circumstance limit necessity and alter
the flow of innovation.
These sections also contain insights into the
associated regions, and their use of guns, gears, or
both, perfect for helping GMs unlock the full potential
of adventures set within those regions. For example,
GMs hoping to run an adventure in the gritty city of
Alkenstar will find detailed accounts of the people and
organizations vying for power there, while GMs who
set their adventures in Ustalav can benefit from a look
at how technologies from another world have spurred
amazing and sometimes terrifying advancements in a
variety of sciences. The streets of Absalom might seem a
little bit more wondrous than before after learning about
the clockwork inventions that serve as everything from
toys to weapons of powerful destruction. Examining
the development of black powder technology in context
with the geopolitics and history of its early spread on
the continents of Tian Xia and Vudra can help GMs add
depth to black powder adventures set in those areas.
While black powder weapons, clockwork technology,
and weird science might exist in hidden dungeons
anywhere on Golarion, the nations discussed in this
chapter are benefactors of technological advancement.
Technology doesn’t advance from one lone genius
experimenting in a hidden tower deep in the wilderness,
but instead through the iteration of ideas across various
people of different cultures, each of whom brings their
own unique elements and ideas to the table. Inventors
and gunslingers alike often find themselves drawn
to any of these regions as they search to advance and
perfect their craft, learning from the various innovations
and traditions across the world. Any scholar hoping to
understand how Golarion has been shaped by science and
mortal ingenuity can’t hope to reach that understanding
without knowing the details contained herein.
SECTION SUMMARIES
This chapter includes several different locations from
around the world of Golarion, each with their own
cultures and unique technological discoveries.
Dongun Hold and Alkenstar: This section covers the
history, culture, and modern politics of the dwarven Sky
Citadel of Dongun Hold and their human neighbors in
Alkenstar. It also includes a selection of dwarf ancestry
feats specific to dwarves from this region.
Absalom: Gadgets and Gizmos: This gazetteer talks
about the City at the Center of the World and the
clockwork gadgets and other advancements that can be
found there.
Arcadia: Beast Guns and Skymetals: This section
peels back the curtain on the continent of Arcadia with a
close-up look at the region known as the Deadshot Lands,
where they produce unusual firearms made of materials
incredibly difficult to obtain elsewhere in Golarion.
Jistka
Imperium:
Ancient
Automatons:
Learn
about the ancient empire known as the Jistka
Imperium, whose culture is still preserved in
the memories of the ageless automatons
crafted at the height of Jistkan power.
The Shackles: Cannons and Naval
Battles: Contained herein is a detailed
account of the proliferation of
firearms among the pirates of the
Shackles and how these weapons
influenced the tides of history.
Tian Xia and Vudra: Birth of Black
Powder: This treatise presents a brief
history of the black powder trade that
started in Tian Xia before crossing through
Vudra and on to the Inner Sea, and examines
the development and discovery of a variety of weapons
and explosives.
Ustalav: Spark and Shadow: This
manuscript
delivers an account of the strange science and twisted
technology being unearthed in the shadowed nation of
Ustalav, particularly those related to harnessing and the
unbridled power of electricity with the devices known as
Stasian coils.
189
189
Clockwork Wayfinder
