Sterling Dynamo
While many people across Golarion use prosthetic devices,
you’ve acquired and outfitted yourself with a particularly
advanced combat model of clockwork prosthesis: a piece
of cutting edge technology called a sterling dynamo.
You know how to maintain your dynamo and how to
customize it to suit your needs and style, incorporating any
promising new technologies you encounter into its design.
There’s a significant distinction, however, between
someone who merely has a sterling dynamo prosthesis
and someone like you who is a true sterling dynamo. With
their recent invention, people in Absalom and Dongun
Hold with access to the technology have begun to adopt
sterling dynamos as their prostheses of choice,
among the wide variety of amazing options
already available in both markets. However,
not everyone who chooses to use sterling
dynamo technology is a member of the
sterling dynamo archetype.
With
the
sterling
dynamo
archetype, you both use a sterling
dynamo
prosthesis
and
truly
understand
its
advantages,
limitations,
and
limitless
potential. You don’t have
to literally be your own
mechanic, as there’s
no
requirement
for
a sterling dynamo to
be
particularly
skilled
at crafting, but even if you
aren’t, you can still “feel” what’s
right when it comes to adjusting and
optimizing your dynamo. Whether you
implement these improvements yourself
or present your mechanic with ideas
and insights that allow them to achieve
something special on your behalf, your
strength and ingenuity are what make
you a sterling dynamo.
As you train to use your dynamo in
all sorts of adventures, you may become
capable of feats its original inventors
never dreamed possible. In fact, as you
progress in the archetype and explore
the possibilities, you might find that
these inventors want to interview you in
order to apply your insights and help them
create a new generation of the technology
with even greater capabilities. The sterling
dynamo’s adaptability grants it vast
potential, so the sky’s the limit!
STERLING DYNAMO DEDICATION
FEAT 2
UNCOMMON
ARCHETYPE
DEDICATION
You obtain a sterling dynamo prosthetic, which
allows you to replace or augment a limb, or even add a
simple new non‑prehensile limb, such as a tail. While your
sterling dynamo prosthetic can replace a missing prehensile
limb, such as an arm, choosing to add a new limb can never
increases your character’s number of hands or prehensile
limbs beyond two, even in combination with other abilities
or effects.
Your sterling dynamo prosthesis is especially optimized for
combat, granting you a dynamo melee unarmed attack that
is in the brawling weapon group and is made of silver (which
makes it more effective against certain types of creatures,
such as devils and werewolves).
 You have several options to customize your sterling
dynamo. First, choose whether you have a power driver
dynamo, which deals 1d6 bludgeoning damage and has
the shove trait, or a percussive striker dynamo, which
deals 1d4 bludgeoning damage and has the agile and
finesse traits.
Most dynamos are automated, so they don’t require
a free hand to use, like other unarmed attacks.
However, you can instead choose to make your
dynamo be manually controlled via a handheld
switch, lever, or other device; to make an attack
with a manually controlled dynamo, you must
have a hand free to operate it, but the benefit is
great control and a more devastating strike. This
increases the damage die by one size, to a 1d8 for
a power drive dynamo or 1d6 for a percussive
striker dynamo. Arm dynamos are always
manual, but they use the hand on that arm
to operate the dynamo when making strikes.
Manual control is required only in the heat of
combat, not for less strenuous adventuring
or everyday activities.
You need to keep your sterling dynamo
wound, but the process isn’t particularly
onerous, so in most situations, it won’t be
an issue. If you spend 1 minute winding
up your dynamo, it can remain active for
24 hours before needing additional winding.
However, enemies can attempt to Disable the
dynamo, which has a level equal to your own, to
reduce the remaining operational time by 1 hour,
or 2 hours on a critical success. Certain other
abilities that adversely affect technology might
also reduce the dynamo’s remaining operational
time. When your dynamo is out of operational time,
you can still use it as a normal prosthetic, but you
cannot use your dynamo unarmed attack or any
other abilities from this archetype until you wind the
dynamo again. You can wind the dynamo for 1 minute
at any time to return it to the maximum 24 hours of
operational time.
Special You cannot select another dedication
feat until you have gained two other feats from
the sterling dynamo archetype.
52
52
