Introduction
Gears
Characters
Gears
Equipment
Guns
Characters
Guns
Equipment
The Rotating
Gear
Glossary
And Index
Guns &
GEARS
crew needs to take the Aim activity to adjust a mounted
siege weapon’s aim. At a given time, the weapon is Aimed
in a particular way, depending on the target or area the
weapon uses.
•	 Single Target: Aimed at one square
•	 Burst: Aimed at one grid corner (that will be the
center of the burst)
•	 Cone or Line: Aimed in a particular direction, to the
nearest 45º angle.
When a siege crew member takes the Aim activity,
they can move the aim of a mounted siege weapon only
a certain distance (or rotate the weapon a certain amount
for a cone or line). Typically, the aim for a single target
or burst can’t be placed too close to the weapon due to
the arc in which the weapon shoots. The distance moved
or rotated can be found in each weapon’s stat block, as
is the minimum distance, if applicable. The Launch entry
notes whether the attack is against a single target or in a
burst, cone, or line.
LOADING
Any member of the crew can take the Load activity to
prepare the weapon, resetting its machinery or helping
Load the payload. The stat block lists how many times
the activity must be taken to prepare the weapon to
Launch. Some Load activities require successful checks to
be effective, such as ones that require an Athletics check
to Load heavy ammunition into the siege weapon. Once
the weapon is Loaded, trying to Load it further has no
effect. It doesn’t matter in what order the siege weapon
is Aimed and Loaded, and the crew could partially Load
the weapon, Aim it, and then continue Loading it without
disrupting the process.
LAUNCHING
A member of the crew adjacent to the siege weapon’s
release can use the Launch action to shoot the siege
weapon. After the weapon has been Launched, it must
be Loaded fully to be Launched again. No matter how
quickly it’s Loaded, a single siege weapon can never be
Launched more than once per round. The aim remains
where it was, and the weapon needs to be Aimed again
only if the crew wishes to change the aim.
Launch [one-action] (attack) Requirements The siege weapon is Loaded;
Effect The siege weapon launches its payload, which targets
or has an area where the weapon is Aimed.
•	 Single target Targets a creature, unattended object, or
structure in the square the weapon is Aimed at
•	 Burst Centered on the grid corner the weapon is Aimed at
•	 Cone or Line Directed where the weapon is Aimed
Each creature, unattended object, and structure the siege
weapon is Aimed at or that is in the area takes the amount
of damage listed in the Launch action, with a basic saving
throw against the DC listed in the stat block. If you’re trained
in any weapons of the category listed in the siege weapon’s
proficiency entry, you can use your class DC instead of the
weapon’s default save DC. The weapon’s range increment
penalty applies to the Launch DC, as does your multiple
attack penalty. If the weapon is mounted on a vehicle,
the penalties for attacking from a vehicle in combat also
apply (Gamemastery Guide 177). Though a siege weapon
doesn’t require an attack roll, the Launch action still has
the attack trait and therefore counts toward your multiple
attack penalty.
MOVING A MOUNTED SIEGE WEAPON
A mounted siege weapon has to be built on solid ground
and remains stationary while being operated. Some are
on wheels or are otherwise easier to move, but none can
be prepared or shot while being moved. The GM might
allow a mounted siege weapon to be placed on a large
enough vessel, such as a sailing ship.
Moving a mounted siege weapon takes concerted effort
from the whole crew pulling and pushing. This requires
acting in concert, as described under Portable Siege
Weapons, with the crew leader taking the Move Siege
Weapon activity. This requires the minimum number
of crew required to operate the siege weapon and gets
no extra benefit for additional crew helping. If a siege
weapon doesn’t list this action, it can’t be moved this
way; it has to be disassembled and reassembled.
Move Siege Weapon [two-actions] Requirements The rest of the crew
have Readied to Stride on your order; Effect You and the
crew Stride, moving the mounted siege weapon with you.
The maximum distance equals the slowest crew member’s
Speed, or the maximum Speed listed in the siege weapon’s
Move Siege Weapon entry, whichever is lower. The siege
weapon’s aim moves the same distance and direction the
siege weapon moved.
Portable Siege Weapons
Portable siege weapons require moving in concert and
making a single attack supported by the full crew.
ACTING IN CONCERT
Because portable siege weapons require coordination,
operating one requires following a crew leader. The rest of
the crew must Ready an action to be taken when the crew
leader calls to attack with the siege weapon. The siege
weapon’s special activity lists what action they need to
Ready. For example, all of the crew operating a battering
ram—except the crew leader—need to Ready to Stride.
Each portable siege weapon has a special activity the
crew leader can take if all the rest of the crew have Readied
the necessary action. The number of actions it requires
and the other specifics can vary greatly depending on
what it takes to operate the weapon. It typically requires
the crew leader to make a Strike.
STRIKING
A Strike with a siege weapon uses the crew leader’s
attack bonus. The siege weapon’s Proficiency entry
73
73
