Firework Technician
The brilliant display of cascading lights and flickering
aerial flowers, the thunderous boom, the sizzling crackle,
and piercing screech—these are the stock and trade
of your craft. You know how to perfectly pair light
and sound to create fireworks displays that can amaze
children and adults, comfort friends, and even confound
your foes.
As a fireworks technician, you might be an itinerant
wanderer, roaming from town to town and developing
your craft on your own. In that case, you make a living
on the road, selling fireworks to the townsfolk, setting
up public displays upon request and receipt of payment,
and even tailoring individualized performances to those
wealthy or interesting enough to be worthy of receiving
their own private show.
 On the other hand, you might be part of an established
fireworks house from Tian Xia or Vudra and rely on
teamwork to perfect your various formulas and displays.
Hoping to produce the next great innovation in fireworks
technology, you often send back the notes from your
studies and field demonstrations to esteemed colleagues
from your fireworks house, seeking their opinions on
your next big idea.
FIREWORK TECHNICIAN DEDICATION
FEAT 2
UNCOMMON
DEDICATION
DEDICATION
ARCHETYPE
DEDICATION
Prerequisites trained in Crafting
You’ve learned the secrets of making fire and sound bloom
using black powder, metals, and paper. You most likely came
by this knowledge through formal training with a fireworks
house in Tian Xia or a fireworks company from Vudra, though
perhaps you mastered fireworks completely by yourself after
finding a secret stash in an old shipwreck.
You become trained in Fireworks Lore or become
an expert if you were already trained in it. You
gain the Alchemical Crafting feat, a pool of
infused reagents equal to your level, and advanced alchemy
(allowing you to make alchemical items during your daily
preparations without the normal cost or time expenditure).
You can use your infused reagents only to make fireworks,
Launch a Fireworks Display, and use other feats from this
archetype (see below). Your advanced alchemy level is 1.
The rules for these are in the Alchemical Crafting section
on page 258 of the Core Rulebook, and rules for infused
reagents and advanced alchemy are on page 72. If you gain
infused reagents from more than one source, you use the
highest number of reagents to determine your pool rather
than adding them together.
You can also create special fireworks displays using your
infused reagents, designed to create distinctive effects you can
use to make onlookers marvel and even to gain an advantage
in combat. You gain the Launch Fireworks Display action and
learn some basic displays, and you can learn additional, more
complex displays through other firework technician feats.
The DC for any display is equal to your class DC or spell DC,
whichever is higher.
Launch Fireworks Display [one-action] to [three-actions] (see below); (manipulate);
Cost 1 or more batches of infused reagents; Requirements
You have a free hand; Effect You set off a fireworks display.
You can launch a normal firework to simply create a visual
or audible signal within 20 feet or you can choose one of
the following special effects. A firework display has the
listed traits, and if it costs more than 1 batch of infused
reagents, it is noted in its Cost entry.
Comet [one-action] (visual) You shoot a streak of shining light in a
60-foot line. All spaces in that line are lit with bright light
until the start of your next turn. As part of this action,
you can also Point Out a single creature in the line, and
your allies do not need to hear or understand you.
Flower [one-action] (visual) You ignite a ring of sparks, creating a shape
that might be reminiscent of a flower blooming in the sky.
Each enemy with 20 feet of you must attempt a Fortitude
save. On a failure, the enemy is dazzled for 1 round, and on
a critical failure they are dazzled for 2 rounds.
Salute [one-action] (auditory) You create a startling bang or whistle,
adding an auditory component to your fireworks display.
When you launch a salute display, you can choose a
confused or fascinated ally within 60 feet. If the ally you
chose is fascinated, the noise is so violent that it acts as a
hostile effect for the purpose of their fascinated condition
(though it has no negative repercussions) automatically
ending most applications of the fascinated condition. If
they’re confused, the sound is so loud and violent that it
might snap the ally out of confusion. They can immediately
attempt the flat check to remove the confused condition
which normally occurs when a creature is damaged. If the
confused condition has special rules that remove the flat
check when taking damage or make the flat check harder,
those rules also apply to the salute.
Special You can’t select another dedication feat until
you’ve gained two other feats from the fireworks technician
archetype.
134
134
