Introduction
Gears
Characters
Gears
Equipment
Guns
Characters
Guns
Equipment
The Rotating
Gear
Glossary
And Index
Guns &
GEARS
Cobbled Firearms
Goblins are nothing if not creative and adaptable, and
have a unique gift for recognizing an advantage when
they see one. Even with the relative rarity of firearms,
only the most secluded goblins are unaware of the deadly
metal tubes that fling death over long distances using
fire and explosive powder. The goblin gunsmiths of the
Motaku Isle Ironworks in Absalom’s Shackles constantly
experiment with new weapon designs using spare parts
from their clients’ weapons shipments and whatever
happens to be lying around. The more successful versions
of these junk guns often get added to the catalogue
of weapons available from the ironworks, while the
less effective ones usually kill their creators before the
unfortunate gunsmiths have a chance to iterate on
their designs. All cobbled firearms have the
cobbled trait, which causes them to
misfire on a failure.
The big boom gun and
spoon gun both have the
goblin trait. However, feats
such as Goblin Weapon Familiarity, which
normally grants access to all uncommon
weapons with the goblin trait, do not grant
access to firearms with the goblin trait unless the
character separately has access to firearms. You
can find more information on this and other firearm
access details on page 148.
MUNDANE COBBLED FIREARMS
Big boom guns and spoon guns are modified versions
of hand cannons with potential benefits and drawbacks
alike, rather than separate weapons. If you have access
to the spoon gun or big boom gun modifications, you
can purchase them whenever you would purchase a hand
cannon, and effects that depend upon and apply to hand
cannons apply to both weapons.
SPOON GUN
ITEM 1
UNCOMMON
COBBLED
GOBLIN
Price 10 gp
Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk 1
No one’s entirely certain who
developed the spoon gun, but
all authorities agree that it was
probably a goblin. Essentially a terrible
idea in firearm form, the spoon gun is a
spring‑powered hand cannon with a modified
grip that uses miscellaneous knives, forks, chopsticks,
and spoons as ammunition. Users typically upend the entire
contents of their cutlery drawer into the gun, aim it in the
general direction of the foe, and hope it hits something.
This hand cannon is a martial weapon, instead of a simple
weapon. It has the scatter (5 feet) trait and uses cutlery or
similar-sized objects as ammunition instead of bullets (enough
cheap cutlery to fire ten shots costs 1 sp).
BIG BOOM GUN
ITEM 1
UNCOMMON
COBBLED
GOBLIN
Price 10 gp
Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk 2
Developed by a goblin weaponsmith who missed the ‘hand’
part of ‘hand cannon’, this comically-oversized gun has a
heavily reinforced barrel and is loaded with a worrisome
quantity of gunpowder.
This hand cannon is a martial weapon,
instead of a simple weapon. It has the
fatal d12 trait and a range of 20 feet. It also
has the following modified critical failure
condition:
Critical Failure The attack misses, the weapon
misfires, and you take 1d12 fire damage as it
explodes in your face.
MAGICAL COBBLED FIREARMS
When you take the already volatile
technology of cobbled firearms and add unstable
evocation magic to the mix, you can be sure that
something either wonderful or terrifying is going to come
from it, and perhaps both at once. The liar’s gun is the
embodiment of that certainty. The liar’s gun is a specific
magic item.
LIAR’S GUN
ITEM 7
UNCOMMON
COBBLED
MAGICAL
Price 360 gp
Usage held in 1 hand; Bulk L
This dubious weapon gets its name
from the fact that it’s typically
crafted with multiple false barrels
so that it’s more difficult for enemies
to predict the weapon’s angle of fire
from the four working barrels. Most of the time, this
gun functions as a +1 striking pepperbox with capacity 4
instead of capacity 3, albeit one with a complicated loading
mechanism involving rotating the barrels. In a pinch though,
all four of the real barrels can be fired simultaneously.
Activate [two-actions] Interact; Effect Make up to four Strikes with
the liar’s gun. Each of the four Strikes must be against
a different target within a 20-foot cone. You apply and
increasing your multiple attack penalty for the four Strikes
only after resolving all attacks. If the weapon misfires on
any of these attacks, wait to apply the misfire until you
resolve all of the attacks.
ADDITIONAL TRAITS
The following new trait is applicable to all the weapons
in this section.
Cobbled: This firearm is cobbled together and likely to
misfire. No matter how well you upkeep it, on a failed
attack roll, the attack misses and you must roll a DC 5 flat
check. If you fail this check, the weapon misfires.
157
157
Spoon Gun
Liar’s Gun
