RETURN TO DONGUN HOLD
After generations of isolation, a human refugee named
Ancil Alkenstar visited the dwarves of Dongun Hold.
High King Anong Arunak met with the stranger,
discussing the state of the surface world and the end
of open hostilities between Geb and Nex. Shortly
thereafter, the dwarves returned to the surface, restored
their fallen Sky Citadel, and finally returned home to
the ancient, stone-carved halls of Dongun Hold. While
the dwarves rebuilt, Ancil united the other refugees and
clans of the Mana Wastes and established a settlement
just outside Dongun Hold, naming it the Grand Duchy
of Alkenstar.
In spite of the xenophobia of her people, High King
Arunak allied with Alkenstar, protecting the fledgling
settlers with dwarven sharpshooters and gunslingers.
Over the centuries, Alkenstar has grown drastically in
size. The innovators of Alkenstar’s massive Gunworks
manufacture dwarven firearms and explosives, tithing
a portion of the profits to Dongun Hold’s coffers. In
times of trouble, the dwarven sharpshooters still fight
to defend the city alongside their Alkenstar neighbors.
Throughout
the
Mana
Wastes, High King Arunak
and the dwarves of Dongun
Hold continue to be lauded
as brave heroes.
Despite
their
sudden
prosperity, the dwarves of Dongun Hold
struggle to find their place in a much-changed world.
They present a united front to outsiders but behind
closed doors there is division. The majority of dwarves
trust the judgment of their High King and celebrate
their return to Dongun Hold, taking great pride in their
position as respected defenders of both Dongun Hold
and Alkenstar. Despite a century of close contact with
Alkenstar, some individual dwarves remain accustomed
to seclusion, and tales of the human war that drove their
ancestors from Dongun Hold are held close in memory.
Among these traditionalist dwarves, extending trust and
friendship to their neighbors is a challenge with which
they remain uncomfortable.
Within the halls of Dongun Hold, three major
factions vie for the support of High King Arunak and
the dwarven people: the traditionalist Keepers of the
Skyflame, the mercantile Goldhand Lodge, and the
inventive Sparkforge Collective.
Keepers of the Skyflame
The Keepers of the Skyflame are dwarven traditionalists
who have long lobbied against the use of black powder
and the many inventions it has spawned. Citing the
danger and pain the devices have caused, the Keepers
urge their dwarven kin to abandon the use of firearms
and explosives, and instead refocus on traditional
methods of warfare.
At odds with the Sparkforge Collective, the Keepers
of the Skyflame lost respect for High King Arunak long
ago, when she chose to invest heavily in firearms, tripling
the resources and smiths devoted to their production,
and converting many traditional combat battalions to
firearm and demolition squads. The Keepers argued
against allying with Alkenstar and urge the High
King to sever ties with the human nation immediately.
They consider Dongun Hold’s status as a “holding”
of Alkenstar an unforgivable insult for which all of
Alkenstar owes recompense.
Although the Keepers of the Skyflame dislike the use
of firearms, they don’t deny their power and greatly fear
black powder weapons falling into unworthy hands—
which typically includes all non-dwarves. They believe
High King Arunak’s sharing of firearm technology with
Alkenstar represents a dangerous betrayal that threatens
all dwarven people.
As their pleas and warnings have continually been
ignored, some among the Keepers of the Skyflame turn
to extreme measures to preserve the future of Dongun
Hold. Rumormongers spread seeds of doubt
throughout the citizenry, playing upon
fear and xenophobia to
turn popular opinion
against High King
Arunak:
politicians
foil trade negotiations
and foreign alliances;
priests and historians encourage a return to traditional
and respected ways of life, glamorizing the past and
glorifying ancestral heroes; scoundrels steal or spoil
shipments of black powder; and renegades sabotage
forges and firearm shipments. The boldest among them
plan more direct action, including assassination and the
recent attacks against Alkenstar’s Gunworks.
Whatever the methods these desperate dwarves
utilize, they strive to keep their actions secret, often
blaming—and occasionally hiring—outsiders to do
their dirty work for them. Most dwarves caught taking
criminal action on behalf of the Keepers would rather
take the blame for their crimes alone than implicate their
organization, considering it an honorable sacrifice made
to ensure the survival of Dongun Hold and those who
would save it. This stubborn fanaticism has enabled the
Keepers of the Skyflame to continue their operations
without major setbacks.
Although High King Arunak has tried to maintain
peace between the factions of Dongun Hold, as
tensions rise, she’ll eventually have to take a stand
on these major ideological issues. Knowing the High
King’s opinion of their order, the Keepers of the
Skyflame prepare for her public condemnation, which
they hope to use to turn the dwarven populace against
her and spur an uprising that could change the course
of the future.
192
192
Dongun firearm
