beacon’s location, to coordinate assaults, to request rescue,
or for other similar reasons. Higher-level beacons have a
radius so large that they can be seen from miles away at
night. When you Activate a flare beacon, you can either place
it on the ground in a space within your reach or toss it up
to 60 feet straight up. The beacon then sparks into being,
casting bright light in a 20-foot radius and dim light in the
next 20 feet for 1 minute. A flare beacon in the air falls at a
rate of 10 feet per round. Creatures adjacent to a flare beacon
must succeed at a DC 15 Fortitude save or be dazzled until
they are no longer adjacent to it.
Type lesser; Level 1; Price 4 gp
Type moderate; Level 6; Price 35 gp
The beacon shines bright light in a 60-foot radius and dim
light in the next 60 feet. Creatures within a 10-foot radius
of the beacon must succeed at a DC 20 Fortitude save or be
dazzled until they are no longer within 10 feet of it.
Type greater; Level 10; Price 180 gp
The beacon shines bright light in a 100-foot radius and dim
light in the next 100 feet. Creatures within a 20-foot radius
of the beacon must succeed at a DC 27 Fortitude save or
be dazzled until they are no longer within 20 feet of it.
Additionally, on a critical failure, they are also blinded for
1 round.
Type major; Level 16; Price 1,500 gp
The beacon shines bright light in a 180-foot radius and dim
light in the next 180 feet. Creatures within a 30-foot radius
of the beacon must succeed at a DC 35 Fortitude save or
be dazzled until they are no longer within 30 feet of it.
Additionally, on a critical failure, they are also blinded for
1 round.
GADGET SKATES
ITEM 5
UNCOMMON
CLOCKWORK
CONSUMABLE
GADGET
Price 21 gp
Usage worn (attached to footwear or feet); Bulk L
Activate [one-action] Interact (move)
Gadget skates are metal devices that come in pairs and strap
onto existing footwear (or a creature’s feet).
When you Activate gadget skates, clockwork gears reveal
small wheels that propel you along the ground, moving you
up to twice your Speed. During this movement, you must
succeed at a DC 20 Acrobatics check to turn up to 90
degrees, and you can’t turn more than once or more than
90 degrees. During the activation and after the activation is
complete, you can’t Stride, Step, or otherwise move on the
ground until the end of your next turn. However, you can use
this movement instead of a Stride to perform a High Jump or
Long Jump just after the activation ends, in the direction of
your last movement using the gadget skates.
You can Sustain the Activation of your gadget skates
for up to 1 minute. Starting on the turn after you Activate
the gadget skates, the first time you Sustain the Activation
each turn, you gain the effects of the activation again: you
move up to twice your Speed in the same direction as your
last movement with the gadget skates, and the restrictions
continue to apply until you choose to cease Sustaining the
Activation or you reach the maximum duration. Once the
effect ends, the skates fall away and you can move normally.
GECKO PADS
ITEM 5+
UNCOMMON
CLOCKWORK
CONSUMABLE
GADGET
Usage worn (attached to handwear or hands); Bulk L
Activate [two-actions] Interact
Gecko pads are thin, clockwork devices shaped like palms,
which can be strapped onto existing handwear or a creature’s
hands. When activated, they whir to life and improve your
grip on surfaces, while slowly releasing a sticky substance
stored within the device’s surface to help you climb. The
pads give you a climb Speed equal to your Speed as long as
your hands are free.
Type gecko pads; Level 5; Price 25 gp
The climb Speed lasts for 10 minutes.
Type greater gecko pads; Level 9; Price 125 gp
The climb Speed lasts for 1 hour.
IMPACT FOAM CHASSIS
ITEM 1+
UNCOMMON
CONSUMABLE
GADGET
Usage worn over armor and clothes; Bulk L
Activate see below
While you’re wearing an impact foam chassis wrapped
around your body, it Activates automatically whenever you
fall at least 10 feet, causing a layer of soft, flexible impact
foam to expand beneath and around you to cushion the
fall. The impact foam decreases the falling damage by up
to the listed amount, taking damage equal to the amount
of falling damage the foam reduced. If this is enough to
destroy the foam, it disperses immediately. However, if the
foam has any Hit Points remaining, it remains surrounding
you for up to 1 minute. While you’re surrounded in foam,
you are immobilized and have standard cover against other
creatures, and other creatures have standard cover against
you. The foam has an Escape DC of 15; a creature can also
remove it by spending three Interact actions. You or others
can also attack the foam (the foam has an AC of 12), which
disperses if reduced to 0 Hit Points.
Type lesser; Level 1; Price 3 gp
A lesser impact foam chassis prevents up to 20 falling
damage and has 20 Hit Points.
Type moderate; Level 4; Price 15 gp
A moderate impact foam chassis prevents up to 50 falling
damage and has 40 Hit Points.
Type greater; Level 9; Price 150 gp
A greater impact foam chassis prevents up to 100 falling
damage and has 100 Hit Points.
Type major; Level 14; Price 650 gp
A major impact foam chassis prevents up to 200 falling
damage and has 200 Hit Points.
INSTANT SPY
ITEM 2
UNCOMMON
CLOCKWORK
CONSUMABLE
GADGET
Price 5 gp
70
70
