into all-out war, and what early advantages Jistka enjoyed,
it lost to the centuries-old infighting between magisters
and artificers. By the time the Imperium could present a
united front, Osirion not only had the tools to devastate
its foes’ combined golem, genie, and mortal armies, but it
also developed insidious strategies to weaken Jistka from
within, such as the dreaded Night Plague. With its resources
dwindling, Jistka needed a new, unbeatable weapon.
The answer came from its northern territories, created in
the forge city of Rachikan and quickly shared among artificer
bastions. For generations, builders relied on capable and
relatively compliant elementals to power constructs. Under
pressure to supply shock troops, Rachikan’s engineers
began conjuring fiends to animate golems instead. In many
ways, it was brilliant. Fiends already displayed a penchant
for possession, so a greater fraction of their raw power
could transfer to the golems’ mechanical bodies, and a hint
of their intelligence manifested as rudimentary cunning
that granted the golems greater adaptability in combat.
Unlike elementals, many of the fiends also openly made
bargains with the priest-artificers to willingly inhabit the
lifeless statues, greatly reducing the cost of binding and
restraining the extraplanar entities.
Many fiends were stronger than their Inner Plane
counterparts, allowing them to empower ever-larger war
machines. The resulting fiend-infused golems provided
exactly what the desperate Imperium needed, allowing the
creation of legendary engines such as the dreaded behemoth
fortress golem, an elephantine walking fortress that
towered more than 50 feet tall and collapsed conventional
fortifications with the sheer force of its footsteps.
Although these fiendish golems at first obliterated
their opposition, tales of dire mishaps quickly tainted
the victories. A typical golem always ran the risk of its
elemental spirit rebelling; these new golems were rarely
built strongly enough to contain the fiendish fury sealed
within. The constructs regularly entered battle rages that
their commanders couldn’t control, often resulting in the
fiend breaking free entirely in a burst of unholy energy.
Even those inhabited by willing fiends ran amok. The only
blessing was that these blasphemous terrors
inflicted far more damage against the
Imperium’s Osirian enemies than
against their so-called allies.
Had
the
Imperium’s
artificers
drawn upon the magistrates’ expertise
in binding extraplanar creatures, and had
a gruesome war not limited their testing,
this foray into fiend-powered constructs
might have produced reliable, relatively safe
results. However, the artificers had developed
these war machines in relative secrecy, and to
avoid losing face to their magistrate rivals,
they actively destroyed evidence and sowed
disinformation to hide their experimental
constructs’ rampages. The Imperium might
not have cared. Succession crises and
assassination plots left the upper echelons in
disarray, and pretenders regularly sponsored
and claimed credit for any victories against
Osirion, no matter the circumstances, so
long as it supported their own agendas. So,
more demons, daemons, and devils poured
into construct shells.
Fiend-infused constructs were ultimately
unstable, not just in battle but in the passage of
years, with many of the fiends breaking freeing
in the millennia since. Thus, rediscovered Jistkan
golems are most often powered by elementals.
Combined with the pains some artificers took
to conceal their unholy creations’ misdeeds or
destroy their own research, the techniques for
creating constructs and binding fiends within
them barely survived the ages. However, with
the recent rediscovery of Rachikan, these
deadly secrets are increasingly accessible to
the most reckless engineers.
214
214
Automaton and Artisan
