Introduction
Gears
Characters
Gears
Equipment
Guns
Characters
Guns
Equipment
The Rotating
Gear
Glossary
And Index
Guns &
GEARS
INTRODUCTION
The Pathfinder Roleplaying Game features a high-fantasy setting where almost any story
can be told. Where the Core Rulebook provides classic options for play and Secrets of
Magic provides options for characters to delve deep into the magical mysteries of Golarion,
Guns & Gears presents the secrets of black powder weapons and clockwork technology,
combining grit and steampunk to produce a flavor all its own.
Gears, Guns, or Both
Guns & Gears is presented as three smaller but
interconnected “books” bundled inside a single cover. The
Gears “book” is split into two chapters: Gears Characters
and Gears Equipment. The first chapter features the
inventor class and automaton ancestry, along with several
archetypes that support innovation as a theme. The second
chapter presents an array of gadgets and vehicles that
embrace themes of inventiveness. This chapter includes rules
for clockwork and steam-tech mechanisms as well as other
more esoteric forms of technology.
The Guns “book” has also been separated into two
chapters: Guns Characters and Guns Equipment. The first
section presents the gunslinger class along with an array of
archetypes that support exciting combat styles built around
firearms and crossbows. The second chapter offers a wide
array of new firearms, from classic black powder weapons
like the flintlock musket and arquebus to more fantastic
options like versatile combination weapons or magical beast
guns. Support for firearms and crossbows goes beyond just
new weapons and includes other exciting accessories for
customizing your weapon of choice, like bayonets and
reinforced stocks to attach a melee option to your guns,
magical scopes to improve your visual prowess, magical
bandoliers and holsters, and even replacement barrels and
firing mechanisms to change your weapon’s parameters.
The final “book,” The Rotating Gear, offers a standalone
gazetteer describing different areas of Golarion where black
powder, clockworks, and other forms of technology are
likely to be found. This chapter isn’t limited to just the Inner
Sea. It explores continents like Arcadia, Casmaron, and Tian
Xia, describing the technological traditions of those regions
and how they’ve influenced the growth and proliferation of
technology across the entire planet.
How To Use This Book
The options here expand upon the rules contained in the
Core Rulebook, and that book is required to use Guns &
Gears. Some rules indicate other material found in this book
with page references. Other products referencing the rules in
this book might do so using the superscript citation “G&G.”
ACCESS ENTRIES
Most of the rules content in this book is uncommon or
rare because such technology is unusual in Golarion.
However, sometimes a stat block for an uncommon rules
element includes an Access entry that lists specific criteria.
A character who meets the criteria listed in the Access
entry, such as hailing from a particular locale, gains
access to the rules element. This book often groups access
requirements by section. For example, the introduction to
the Gears Characters chapter (page 12) details the areas
of Golarion that grant access to the inventor class and its
related uncommon weapons and gadgetry, so the areas
detailed there as granting access serve the role of access
requirements for most of the section (not including rare
items and certain other elements called out as needing
additional approval from the GM, such as vehicles).
As always, the GM has the final say on who can access
uncommon or rarer options or whether to allow specific
options in the game at all. They might decide that a
character’s upbringing or abilities make sense for a specific
rules option and grant them access even if the character
doesn’t automatically qualify, or they might decide those
same options can’t be taken by anyone.
World-Building and Tone
Guns & Gears introduces elements of fantasy that might
not fit into every game. The world of Golarion has a
lot in common with the Renaissance period of Earth,
supplemented with magic and old-fashioned technologies
that were replaced on Earth before being refined to the point
they’ve reached in Golarion. This high fantasy world is
home to pirates with bandoliers of flintlock pistols, reckless
scientists animating the dead with electric coils, knights in
shining armor riding mighty griffons, and wizards casting
spells in tall towers. Each of those character concepts
has a place in Golarion; it’s just that to find some of the
technological elements, you need to know where to look.
For a home campaign, especially in a homebrew
setting, some GMs might prefer a world that embraces
the age of piracy and includes cannons and firearms
with greater frequency than Golarion without the
presence of steam-powered jetpacks and clockwork
grappling hooks. Other GMs might prefer a world where
clockworks and steam engines exist, but guns and other
black powder weapons are absent. Guns & Gears takes
steps to facilitate this world-building. As mentioned,
this tome is divided into three smaller “books.” A GM
who only wants to allow black powder weaponry
5
