Introduction
Gears
Characters
Gears
Equipment
Guns
Characters
Guns
Equipment
The Rotating
Gear
Glossary
And Index
Guns &
GEARS
ATTACHED CUSTOMIZATION OPTIONS
This section introduces two new types of item that can
be attached to a firearm: scopes and firing mechanisms.
A given firearm can only have one of each type of item
attached. For instance, a firearm couldn’t have more than
one scope attached at the same time. To indicate this,
in much the same way that a magic item’s usage entry
might say “worn shoes” to indicate it can’t be worn with
other shoes, the usage entry for these attached options
lists “attached (scope)” or “attached (firing mechanism).”
The suit remains usable in this manner until you rest for
the night, though it doesn’t grant the benefit whenever you
aren’t in the appropriate environment. The GM might rule
that some environments are unusual enough that you can’t
create a camouflage suit appropriate for the environment.
A superb camouflage suit is fashioned from especially
well-blended materials and gives you a +2 item bonus to
the check instead of a +1 item bonus.
Concealed Holster: This leather holster is crafted
to better hide small firearms from view. Only firearms
designed for use in one hand are small enough to
disguise with this holster. You gain a +1 item bonus to
Stealth checks and DCs to hide or conceal a firearm or
hand crossbow in this holster.
Earplugs: These small pieces of cloth and stuffing
have been crafted to dramatically muffle sound and
easily slide into and out of the ear canals of humanoid
creatures. You can insert or remove earplugs from your
ears or a willing creature’s ears with a single Interact
action using one hand. They take a –2 circumstance
penalty to all auditory Perception checks but also gain
a +2 circumstance bonus to saving throws against
auditory effects.
Firearm Cleaning Kit: This kit contains cleaning cloth,
oil, small steel brushes, and other minor tools necessary
for proper cleaning and maintenance of a firearm.
Without a firearm cleaning kit, you can’t perform the
necessary tasks during your daily preparations to ensure
that your firearm isn’t at risk of misfiring under normal
use conditions.
Practice Targets: While gunslingers have many
methods for practicing their aim, these sturdy paper
targets are excellent for tracking a gunslinger’s progress
over time, keeping score of how close they came to
hitting the most vital spots. These targets are also used
in situations where more detailed accuracy must be
recorded, such as firearm competitions. Practice targets
can appear in many shapes and sizes and usually come
in packs of 10 held in protective cases made of heavy
cloth or light leather.
Silencer: One of the more prolifically used devices
developed in the infamous Alkenstar Gunworks, these
small firearm components are capable of muffling most
of the weapons’ explosive sound when fired. Without a
silencer, a firearm’s shot makes a loud and distinctive
bang, which can easily be heard through doors and thin
walls, but firearms equipped with silencers only make a
quiet noise when fired. Due to engineering constraints, a
silencer can’t be attached to any firearm with the scatter
trait. Attaching a silencer to a firearm takes 1 minute,
and the silencer is consumed the first time a shot is fired
through it.
Tripod: Tripods are designed for use with kickback
weapons, as a way for gunslingers with lower strength
to accurately use these more powerful weapons by
sacrificing mobility instead. They can be set up and
attached to a firearm with a single Interact action using
one hand, setting the tripod in your square. While this
sturdy piece of engineering is in use, you don’t take
the –2 penalty for firing a kickback weapon, even if
your Strength isn’t high enough to avoid the penalty.
However, you must retrieve the tripod with a single
Interact action before you can move the firearm to a
different position. Normally, when you’re hidden or
undetected, you become observed if you do anything
except Hide, Sneak, or Step. However, deploying or
retrieving a tripod with an Interact action doesn’t
automatically make you observed, so long as you don’t
set up or remove the tripod when it’s in a spot where
creatures can see the tripod itself.
Waterproof Firearm Carrying Case: This buttoned,
leather case protects a firearm and up to 6 rounds of
ammunition from being damaged by water or other
environmental effects.
Customization Options
The potent stopping power, solid range, and relative
ease of use of firearms make them attractive options
for almost any warrior who can both obtain one and
maintain a healthy supply of ammunition, but these
benefits are only the most basic offered by the firearms
being produced in Golarion today. Everything from
bandoliers for the discerning pirate to specialized scopes
for snipers can be obtained from the talented gunsmiths
who ply their trades in Dongun Hold, Alkenstar, or
Arcadia for the right price.
HOLSTERS
Firearms and crossbows are generally efficient weapons
designed with an eye towards ease of use. However, the
act of managing ammunition, reloading, and keeping
a grip on a weapon can become cumbersome without
a good bandolier or holster to hold your weapons and
ammunition in a convenient position until they become
necessary in combat.
GUNNER’S BANDOLIER
ITEM 3
UNCOMMON
CONJURATION
INVESTED
MAGICAL
Price 60 gp
Usage worn; Bulk L
179
179
